By this rider to the CBP Form 301, ____, (bond number), executed on ____, (date), by ____, (principals name) as principal, ____, (importer number and ____, (surety's name and surety code), as surety, which is effective on ____, (date), the principal and surety agree that the below listed names of unincorporated units of the principal or trade or business names used by the principal in its business are deleted from the bond effective upon the date of approval of the rider by the appropriate CBP bond approval official.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70164, Nov. 13, 2015]
§ 113.25
Seals.
When a seal is required, the seal must be affixed adjoining the signatures of principal and surety, if individuals, and the corporate seal must be affixed close to the signatures of persons signing on behalf of a corporation. Bonds must be under seal in accordance with the law of the state in which executed. However, when the charter or
governing statute of a corporation requires its acts to be evidenced by its corporate seal, such seal is required.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70164, Nov. 13, 2015]
§ 113.26
Effective dates of bonds and riders.
(a)
General.
A continuous bond, and any associated application required by § 113.11, or rider, may be filed up to 60 days prior to the effective date requested for the continuous bond or rider.
(b)
Single transaction bond.
A single transaction bond is effective on the date of the transaction identified on CBP Form 301.
(c)
Continuous bond.
A continuous bond is effective on the effective date identified on CBP Form 301.
(d)
Riders for name change of principal, address change, and addition of trade names and unincorporated divisions of a corporate principal.
Riders for a name change of principal, address change, and addition of trade names and unincorporated divisions of a corporate principal are effective on the effective date identified on the rider.
(e)
Rider to delete trade names and unincorporated divisions of a corporate principal.
A rider to delete trade names and unincorporated divisions of a corporate principal is effective on the effective date identified on the rider if the date is at least 10 business days after the date the port receives the rider. If the rider is not received 10 business days before the identified effective date or no effective date is identified on the rider, it will be effective on the close of business of the tenth business day after it is received in the port.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended at 80 FR 70164, Nov. 13, 2015; CBP Dec. 15-15, 81 FR 15159, Mar. 22, 2016]
§ 113.27
Effective dates of termination of bond.
(a)
Termination by principal/co-principal.
A written request by a principal or co-principal to terminate a bond must be mailed, faxed, or emailed to the Revenue Division or, in the case of a bond relating to repayment of erroneous drawback payment, to the drawback office where the bond was approved. The termination will take effect on the date requested if that date is at least 10 business days after the date CBP receives the request. If no termination date is requested, the termination will take effect on the tenth business day following the date CBP receives the request.
(b)
Termination by surety.
A surety may not disavow already incurred obligations but may, with or without the consent of the principal, terminate its agreement to accept future obligations on a bond. The surety must provide reasonable notice of termination, made pursuant to the methods set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, to both the Revenue Division or a drawback office, as appropriate, and to the principal. The notice must state the date on which the termination will be effective. Thirty days will constitute reasonable notice unless the surety can show to the satisfaction of CBP that a shorter time frame is reasonable under the facts and circumstances.
(c)
Effect of termination.
If a bond is terminated, no new customs transactions may be charged against the bond. A new bond in an appropriate amount on CBP Form 301, containing the appropriate bond conditions set forth in subpart G of this part, must be filed before further customs activity may be transacted.
[CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70164, Nov. 13, 2015]

# Subpart D—Principals and Sureties
§ 113.30
Information pertaining to principals and sureties on the bond.
The general information pertaining to the principal and surety which must be given in the body of the bond is set forth in § 113.21.
§ 113.31
Same party as principal and surety; attorney in fact.
(a)
Same party as principal and surety.
The same person, partnership, or corporation cannot be both principal and surety on a bond.
(b)
Attorney in fact for principal or surety.
In executing a bond, a person may act as:
(1) Attorney in fact for both principal and surety;
(2) Surety and attorney in fact for the principal; or
(3) Principal and attorney in fact for the surety.
§ 113.32
Partnerships as principals.
A partnership, including a limited partnership, means any business association recognized as such under the laws of the State where the association is organized.
(a)
Execution.
Partnership bonds must be executed in the firm name, with the name of the member or attorney of the firm executing it appearing immediately below the firm signature.
(b)
Action of one principal binding on all principals of the partnership.
Pursuant to section 495, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1495), when a bond is executed by any member of the partnership, the bond will be binding on the other partners in like manner and to the same extent as if such other partners had personally joined in the execution.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended by T.D. 86-204, 51 FR 42998, Nov. 28, 1986; CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70164, Nov. 13, 2015]
§ 113.33
Corporations as principals.
(a)
Name of corporation on the bonds.
The name of a corporation executing a CBP bond as a principal, may be printed or placed thereon by means of a rubber stamp or otherwise, followed by the written signature of the authorized officer or attorney.
(b)
Signature and seal of the corporation on the bond.
The bond of a corporate principal must be signed by an authorized officer or attorney of the corporation and the corporate seal must be affixed immediately adjoining the signature of the person executing the bond, as provided for in § 113.25.
(c)
Bond executed by an officer of corporation.
When a bond is executed by an officer of a corporation, a power of attorney will not be required if the person signing the bond on behalf of the corporation is known to the Revenue Division, port director, or drawback office to be the president, vice president, treasurer, or secretary of the corporation. The officer's signature is prima facie evidence of that officer's authority to bind the corporation. When a power of attorney is required, it must conform to the requirements of subpart C, part 141, of this chapter.
(d)
Bond executed by an attorney in fact.
When an attorney in fact executes a bond on behalf of a corporate principal and a power of attorney has not been filed with the Revenue Division (unless exempted from filing by § 141.46 of this chapter), there must be attached a power of attorney executed by an officer of the corporation whose authority to execute the power must be shown as prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.
(e)
Subsidiaries as co-principals.
The provisions of this section are applicable to each corporate subsidiary which joins its parent corporation by signing the bond as co-principal.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended at CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70164, Nov. 13, 2015]
§ 113.34
Co-principals.
A bond with a co-principal may be used by a person having a distinct legal status (e.g., individual, partnership, corporation) to join another person with the same distinct legal status on the bond. A bond with a co-principal may not be used to join an entity which does not have a distinct legal status (e.g. an unincorporated division of a corporation). However, an entity which does not have a distinct legal status may use another bond if listed on the bond by the principal at the time of execution or by subsequent rider (see § 113.24). A bond with co-principal may not be used to join different legal entities (e.g. an individual and a corporation, a partnership and a corporation).
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70165, Nov. 13, 2015]
§ 113.35
Individual sureties.
(a)
Number required.
If individuals sign as sureties, there must be two sureties on the bond unless CBP is satisfied that one surety is sufficient to protect the revenue and ensure compliance with the law and regulations.
(b)
Qualifications to act as surety
—(1)
Residency and citizenship.
Each individual surety on a CBP bond must be both a resident and citizen of the United States.
(2)
Granting of power of attorney.
Any individual, unless prohibited by law, may grant a power of attorney to sign as surety on CBP bonds. Unless the power is unlimited, all persons to whom the power relates must be named.
(3)
Property requirements.
For both single transaction and continuous bonds, each individual surety must have property available as security within the customs territory of the United States. The current market value of the property, less any encumbrance, must be equal to or greater than the amount of the bond. If one individual surety is accepted, the individual surety must have property the value of which, less any encumbrance, is equal to or greater than twice the amount of the bond.
(c)
Oath and evidence of solvency.
Before being accepted as a surety, the individual must:
(1) Take an oath on CBP Form 3579, setting forth:
(i) The amount of assets over and above all debts and liabilitiesand such exemptions as may be allowed by law; and
(ii) The general description and location of one or more pieces ofreal estate owned within the customs territory of the United States, and the value thereof, less any encumbrance.
(2) Produce such evidence of solvency and financial responsibility asCBP may require.
(d)
Determination of financial responsibility.
An individual will not be accepted as surety on a bond until CBP is satisfied as to the financial responsibility of the individual. CBP may request Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to conduct an immediate investigation to verify a surety's financial responsibility.
(e)
Continuancy of financial responsibility.
In order to ascertain the continued solvency and financial responsibility of individual sureties, CBP will require a new oath and determine the financial responsibility of each individual surety as prescribed in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section at least once every six months, and more often if deemed advisable.
[CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70165, Nov. 13, 2015]
§ 113.36
Partner acting as surety on behalf of a partner or on behalf of a partnership.
A member of a partnership will not be accepted as an individual surety on a bond executed by the partnership as principal. A partner may be an individual surety for a fellow partner on a bond if (a) the transaction is in an individual capacity and unrelated to the partnership, (b) sufficient unencumbered nonpartnership property is available as security, and (c) the individual qualifies as an individual surety under the provisions of § 113.35 of this part.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70165, Nov. 13, 2015]
§ 113.37
Corporate sureties.
(a)
Lists of corporations and limits of their bonds.
Treasury Department Circular 570 contains a list of corporations authorized to act as sureties on bonds, with the amount in which each may be accepted. Unless otherwise directed by the Commissioner of CBP, no corporation will be accepted as surety on a bond if not named in the current Circular as amended by
Federal Register
notice and no bond may exceed the respective limit stated in the Circular, unless the excess is protected as prescribed in § 223.11, Bureau of the Fiscal Service Regulations (31 CFR 223.11).
(b)
Name of corporation on the bond.
The name of a corporation executing a CBP bond, as a surety, may be printed or placed thereon by means of a rubber stamp or otherwise, followed by the written signature of the authorized officer or attorney.
(c)
Name of agent or attorney on the bond.
The agent or attorney acting for a corporate surety must have stamped, printed, or typed on each bond executed by him, below his signature, his full name as it appears on the bond.
(d)
Social security or other surety-generated identification number of agent or attorney on the bond.
In the appropriate place on each bond executed by the agent or attorney acting for a corporate surety, the agent or attorney must place his/her social security number or other surety-generated 9-digit alphanumeric identification number,
as it appears on the corporate surety power of attorney.
(e)
Signature and seal of the corporation on the bond.
A bond executed by a corporate surety must be signed by an authorized officer or attorney of the corporation and the corporate seal must be affixed immediately adjoining the signature of the person executing the bond, as provided for in § 113.25.
(f)
Two or more corporate sureties as sureties on the same obligation.
Two or more corporate sureties may be accepted as sureties on any obligation the amount of which does not exceed the limitations of their aggregate qualifying power as fixed and determined by the Secretary of the Treasury. The amount for which each corporate surety may act as surety in all cases must be within the limitation prescribed by the Secretary, unless the excess is protected as prescribed in § 223.11, Bureau of the Fiscal Service Regulations (31 CFR 223.11). Each corporate surety must limit its liability to a definite specified amount, in terms, upon the face of the bond by attaching the following:

# Corporate Sureties Agreement for Limitation of Liability
____ (name of surety), ____ (surety code), a surety company incorporated under laws of the State of ____, authorized to conduct a surety business in the State of ____, and having its principal place of business at ____ (address), and ____ (names of surety), ____ (surety code), a surety company incorporated under the laws of the State of ____ and having its principal place of business at ____ (address), as sureties, and ____ (name of principal), as principal, are jointly and severally obligated to the United States in the amount of ____ ($ ) on a bond executed on ____ (date of execution) with each surety jointly and severally obligate with the principal in the amounts listed below and no more:
____ (name of surety) ____
($ )
____ (name of surety) ____
($ )
By this agreement the principal and sureties bind themselves and agree that for the purpose of allowing a joint action against any or all of them, and for that purpose only, this agreement and the bond under which they are obligated and which is incorporated by reference into this agreement, shall be treated as the joint and several as well as the several obligation of each of the parties.
Signed and sealed this ____________ day of ____________20____
____Principal
____Surety
____Surety
____Authorized CBP officer
(g)
Power of attorney for the agent or attorney of the surety.
Corporations may execute powers of attorney to act in their behalf in the following manner:
(1)
Execution and contents.
Corporate surety powers of attorney may be submitted to CBP on the CBP Form 5297 and may be scanned and submitted as an email attachment, or submitted by facsimile (fax) or mail.
(i) Corporate surety name and number,
(ii) Name and address of agent or attorney, and social security number or other surety-generated 9-digit alphanumeric identification number for the agent or attorney.
(iii) Port(s) where the agent or attorney is authorized to act,
(iv) Date of execution of power of attorney,
(v) Seal of the corporate surety,
(vi) Signature of any two principal officers of corporation, and
(vii) Dollar amount of authorization.
(2)
Filing.
The corporate surety power of attorney executed on CBP Form 5297 must be filed with CBP. The original(s) of the corporate surety power of attorney must be retained at the port where it(they) was(were) filed.
(3)
Use at port where power of attorney not filed before receipt of computer printout.
If the grantee desires to use the power of attorney at a port covered by the power of attorney, other than the one where the power of attorney was filed, before the first computer printout reflecting this power of attorney is received, the CBP Form 5297, must be filed in triplicate (original and two copies), rather than duplicate. The second copy must be validated by CBP and returned to the grantee. The grantee, at the time of filing a bond at a port other than the port where the power of attorney was filed, must provide this validated copy of the power of attorney as proof of the grant of authority. The validity of this copy of the power of attorney will expire when the first computer printout reflecting this power of attorney is received.
(4)
Term and revocation.
Corporate surety powers of attorney will continue
in force and effect until revoked. Any surety desiring that a designated agent or attorney be divested of a power of attorney must execute a revocation on CBP Form 5297. The revocation will take effect on the close of business on the date requested provided the corporate surety power of attorney is received 5 days before the date requested; otherwise the revocation will be effective at the close of business 5 days after the request is received at the port office.
(5)
Change on the power of attorney.
(i) No change may be made on the CBP Form 5297 after it has been approved by CBP except the following:
(A) Grantee name change;
(B) Grantee address change; and
(C) The addition of port(s) to the corporate surety power of attorney on file.
(ii) To make any other change to the power of attorney two separate CBP Forms 5297 must be submitted, one revoking the previous power of attorney, and one containing a new grant of authority.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984; 49 FR 44867, Nov. 9, 1984; T.D. 95-77, 60 FR 50020, Sept. 27, 1995; CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70165, Nov. 13, 2015]
§ 113.38
Delinquent sureties.
(a)
Acceptance as surety when in default as principal on another CBP bond.
No person will be accepted as surety on any CBP bond while in default as principal on any other CBP bond.
(b)
Acceptance as surety when in default as surety on another CBP bond.
A surety on a CBP bond which is in default may be accepted as surety on other CBP bonds only to the extent that the surety assets are unencumbered by the default.
(c)(1)
Nonacceptance of single transaction bond by port director.
A port director may refuse to accept a single transaction bond secured by an individual or corporate surety when the surety, without just cause, is significantly delinquent either in the number of outstanding bills or dollar amounts thereof. If the port director believes that a substantial question of law exists as to whether a breach of bond obligation has occurred he should request internal advice under the provisions of § 177.11 from the Executive Director, Regulations and Rulings, Office of International Trade, CBP Headquarters.
(2)
Non-acceptance of bond upon instruction by Commissioner of CBP or
Director, Revenue Division.
The Commissioner of CBP, or the Director, Revenue Division, may issue instructions to CBP officers not to accept a bond secured by an individual or corporate surety who, without just cause, is significantly delinquent with respect to either the number or dollar amounts of outstanding bills.
(3)
Notice of surety.
The appropriate CBP officer may take the above actions only after the surety has been provided reasonable notice with an opportunity to pay delinquent amounts, provide justification for the failure to pay, or demonstrate the existence of a significant legal issue justifying further delay in payment.
(4)
Review and final decision.
After a review of any submission made by a surety under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, if an appropriate CBP officer is still of the opinion that bonds secured by the surety should not be accepted, written notice of the decision will be provided to the surety at least five days before the date that CBP will no longer accept the bonds of the surety. Copies of the notice will also be provided to the Executive Director, Regulations and Rulings, Office of International Trade and, if the notice does not originate from the Revenue Director, to the Director, Revenue Director. Notice will be given to the public by publishing the decision in the
Customs Bulletin.
(5)
Duration of decision.
Any decision not to accept a given surety's bond shall remain in effect for a minimum of five days or until all outstanding delinquencies are resolved, whichever is later.
(6)
Actions consistent with requirements.
Any action not to accept the bonds of a surety under paragraphs (c)
(1) and (2) of this section shall be consistent with the requirements of this section.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended by T.D. 91-77, 56 FR 46115, Sept. 10, 1991; T.D. 95-77, 60 FR 50020, Sept. 27, 1995; T.D. 99-27, 64 FR 13675, Mar. 22, 1999; T.D. 99-64, 64 FR 43266, Aug. 10, 1999; CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70166, Nov. 13, 2015]
§ 113.39
Procedure to remove a surety from Treasury Department Circular 570.
If a port director, Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer, or authorized Revenue Division officer is dissatisfied with a surety company because the company has neglected or refused to pay a valid demand made on the surety company's bond or otherwise has failed to honor an obligation on that bond, the port director, Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer, or authorized Revenue Division personnel may take the following steps to recommend that the surety company be removed from Treasury Department Circular 570.
(a)
Report to Headquarters.
A port director, Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer, or authorized Revenue Division officer will send the following evidence to CBP Headquarters, Attention: Executive Director, Regulations and Rulings, Office of International Trade:
(1) A copy of the bond in issue;
(2) A copy of the entry or other evidence which shows that there was a default on the bond;
(3) A copy of all notices, demands or correspondence sent to the surety company requesting the honoring of the bond obligation;
(4) A copy of all correspondence from the surety company; and
(5) A written report of the facts known to the port director, Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer, or authorized Revenue Director personnel showing the unsatisfactory performance by the surety company of the bond obligation(s).
(b)
Review by Headquarters.
CBP Headquarters will review submitted evidence and determine whether further action against the surety company is warranted. If it is determined that further action is warranted, a report recommending appropriate action will be submitted to the Fiscal Assistant Secretary, Department of the Treasury, as required by § 223.18(a), Bureau of the Fiscal Service Regulations (31 CFR 223.18(a)). The port director, Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer, and Director, Revenue Division will be informed in writing of Headquarters action regarding their request for removal of the surety.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended by T.D. 91-77, 56 FR 46115, Sept. 10, 1991; T.D. 95-77, 60 FR 50020, Sept. 27, 1995; T.D. 99-27, 64 FR 13675, Mar. 22, 1999; CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70166, Nov. 13, 2015]
§ 113.40
Acceptance of cash deposits or obligations of the United States in lieu of sureties on bonds.
(a)
General provisions.
In lieu of sureties on any bond required or authorized by any law, regulation, or instruction which the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Homeland Security, or the Commissioner of CBP are authorized to enforce, the Director, Revenue Division or, in the case of single transaction bonds, a port director, may accept United States money, United States bonds (except for savings bonds), United States certificates of indebtedness, Treasury notes, or Treasury bills in an amount equal to the face amount of the bond that would be required. The option to deposit cash or U.S. obligations in lieu of sureties is at the option of the importer, and a CBP Form 301 or other CBP-approved bond designating the appropriate activity for the cash deposits or U.S. obligations in lieu of surety must be filed. When cash or obligations in lieu of surety are accepted, it must be for a term of no more than one year. Additional cash deposits or obligations in lieu of surety may be required.
(b)
Authority to sell United States obligations on default.
At the time of deposit with the Director, Revenue Division, of any U.S. obligation (other than U.S. money), the obligor must deliver a duly executed power of attorney and agreement authorizing the Director, Revenue Division, in the case of any default in the performance of any of the conditions of the bond, to sell the obligation so deposited and to apply the proceeds of the sale, in whole or in
part, to the satisfaction of any damages, demands, or deficiency arising by reason of default. The format of the power of attorney and agreement, when the obligor is a corporation, is set forth below and must be appropriately modified when the obligor is either an individual or a partnership:

# Power of Attorney and Agreement

# (For Corporation)
____, (name of corporation) a corporation duly incorporated under the laws of the State of ____, and having its principal office in the City of ____, State of ____, as authorized by a resolution of the board of directors of the corporation, passed on the ____ day of ____, 20____, a duly certified copy of which is attached, does constitute and appoint ____ (name and official title of bond-approving officer), and his successors in office, as attorney for said corporation, for and in the name of the corporation to collect or to sell, assign, and transfer the securities described as follows:
The securities having been deposited by it as security for the performance of the agreements undertaken in a bond with the United States, executed on the date of ________, 20____, the terms and conditions of which are incorporated by reference into this power of attorney and agreement and made a part hereof. The undersigned agrees that in case of any default in the performance of any of the agreements the attorney shall have full power to collect the securities or any part thereof, or to sell, assign, and transfer the securities or any part thereof at public or private sale, without notice, free from any equity of redemption and without appraisement or valuation, notice and right to redeem being waived and to apply the proceeds of the sale or collection in whole or in part to the satisfaction of any obligation arising by reason of default. The undersigned further agrees that the authority granted by this agreement is irrevocable. The corporation for itself, its successors and assigns, ratifies and confirms whatever the attorney shall do by virtue of this agreement.
Witnessed, signed, and sealed, this ______ day of ______________ 20____.
[Corporate seal.]
By ____
Before me, the undersigned, a notary public within and for the County of ____________, in the State of ____________ (or the District of Columbia), personally appeared ________________________ (name and title of officer) and for and in behalf of said ____________________, a corporation, acknowledged the execution of the foregoing power of attorney.
Witness my hand and notarial seal this ________ day of ______________, 20____;.
[Notarial seal.]
Notary Public ____________________

# Note:
Securities must be described by title, date of maturity, rate of interest, denomination, serial number, and whether coupon or registered. Failure to give a complete description will warrant rejection of this power of attorney.
(c)
Application of United States money or obligations on default.
If United States cash or obligations are deposited in lieu of surety on any bond, the appropriate CBP officer is authorized to apply the cash or money received from the deposited obligation to satisfy any damages, demand, or deficiency arising from a default under the bond.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984; 49 FR 44867, Nov. 9, 1984; CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70166, Nov. 13, 2015]

# Subpart E—Production of Documents
§ 113.41
Entry made prior to production of documents.
When entry is made prior to the production of a required document, the importer must indicate in the “Missing Documents” box (box 16) on CBP Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent, the missing document, whether the importer gives a bond or stipulates to produce the document.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61286, Oct. 13, 2015; CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70167, Nov. 13, 2015]
§ 113.42
Time period for production of documents.
Except when another period is fixed by law or regulations, any document for the production of which a bond or stipulation is given must be delivered within 120 days from the date of notice from CBP requesting such document. If the period ends on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, delivery on the next business day will be accepted as timely.
[CBP Dec. 24-03, 89 FR 52373, June 24, 2024]
§ 113.43
Extension of time period.
(a)
Application received within time period.
If a document referred to in § 113.42 is not produced within 120 days
from the date of the transaction in connection with which the bond was given, the port director or an appropriate CBP officer, in his or her discretion, and upon written application of the importer, may extend the period for one further period not to exceed 60 days.
(b)
Late application.
No application for the extension of the period of any bond given to assure the production of a missing document will be allowed by the port director if the application is received later than 60 days after the expiration of the period of the bond, and any extension will not be allowed by the port director for a period of more than 60 days from the date of expiration of the period.
(c)
Acceptance of a free-entry or reduced-duty document prior to liquidation.
When a bond is given for the production of any free-entry or reduced-duty document and a satisfactory document is produced prior to liquidation of the entry or within the period during which a valid reliquidation may be completed, provided the failure to file was not due to willful negligence or fraudulent intent, it will be accepted as satisfying the requirement that it be filed in connection with the entry, and the bond charge for its production will be cancelled.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended by T.D. 85-167, 50 FR 40363, Oct. 3, 1985; CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70167, Nov. 13, 2015]
§ 113.44
Assent of sureties to an extension of a bond.
(a)
Extension prescribed by law or regulations.
The assent of the sureties to any extension of the period prescribed in a bond is not necessary when the extension is authorized by law or regulations.
(b)
Other extension.
The assent of the sureties must be obtained before any extension of the period prescribed in a bond other than an extension authorized by law or regulation, is allowed.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70167, Nov. 13, 2015]
§ 113.45
Charge for production of a missing document made against a continuous bond.
When a continuous bond secures the production of a missing document and the bond is breached by the principal's failure to timely produce that document, the claim for liquidated damages must be in an amount equal to the amount of the single transaction bond that would have been taken had the transaction been covered by a single transaction bond.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70167, Nov. 13, 2015]

# Subpart F—Assessment of Damages and Cancellation of Bond
§ 113.51
Cancellation of bond or charge against the bond.
The Commissioner of CBP may authorize the cancellation of any bond provided for in this part or any charge that may have been made against the bond, in the event of a breach of any condition of the bond, upon payment of a lesser amount or penalty or upon such other terms and conditions as may be deemed sufficient.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70167, Nov. 13, 2015]
§ 113.52
Failure to satisfy the bond.
If any CBP bond, except one given only for the production of free-entry or reduced-duty documents (
see
§ 113.43(c) of this chapter) has not been satisfied upon the expiration of 180 days after liability has accrued under the bond, the matter will be reported to the Department of Justice for prosecution unless measures have been taken to file an application for relief or protest in accordance with the provisions of this chapter or to satisfactorily settle this matter.
[CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70167, Nov. 13, 2015]
§ 113.53
Waiver of CBP requirement supported by a bond.
(a)
Waiver by the Commissioner of CBP.
When a CBP requirement supported by a bond is waived by the Commissioner of CBP, the waiver may be:
(1) Unconditional, in which case the importer is relieved from the payment of liquidated damages;
(2) Conditioned upon prior settlement of the bond obligation by payment of liquidated damages; or
(3) Conditioned upon such other terms and conditions as the Commissioner of CBP may deem sufficient.
(b)
Waiver by the port director or other authorized CBP officer.
When a CBP requirement supported by a bond is waived by the port director or other authorized CBP officer pursuant to the authority conferred by these regulations, the waiver will be unconditional.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70167, Nov. 13, 2015]
§ 113.54
Cancellation of erroneous charges.
(a)
Bonds.
Section 172.11(b) of this chapter sets forth provisions relating to the cancellation of charges against the bond when it is determined that the act or omission forming the basis for the claim for liquidated damages did not in fact occur.
(b)
Carnets.
Section 114.34 of this chapter sets forth provisions relating to the cancellation of erroneous charges involving carnets.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended by T.D. 00-57, 65 FR 53575, Sept. 5, 2000]
§ 113.55
Cancellation of export bonds.
(a)
Manner of cancellation.
A bond to assure exportation as defined in § 101.1 of this chapter may be cancelled:
(1)
Upon exportation.
Upon the listing of the merchandise on the outward manifest or outward bill of lading, the inspector's certificate of lading, the record of clearance of the vessel or of the departure of the vehicle, and the production of a foreign landing certificate if the certificate is required by the port director.
(2)
Upon payment of liquidated damages.
Upon the payment of liquidated damages.
(b)
Cancellation of bond charges of an international carrier.
The conditions of the bond of an international carrier may be considered as having been complied with upon the production of the applicable documents listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(c)
Foreign landing certificate.
A foreign landing certificate, when required, must be produced within six months from the date of exportation and must be signed by a revenue officer of the foreign country to which the merchandise is exported, unless it is shown that the country has no customs administration, in which case the certificate may be signed by the consignee or by the vessel's agent at the place of landing. Landing certificates are required in the following cases:
(1)
Mandatory.
A landing certificate will be required in every case to establish the exportation of narcotic drugs or any equipment, stores (except such articles as are placed on board vessels or aircraft under the provisions of section 309 or 317, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1309, 1317)), or machinery for vessels.
(2)
Optional with the port director.
A landing certificate may be required by the port director for merchandise exported from the United States, or residue cargo, when a certificate is deemed necessary for the protection of the revenue.
(3)
Waiver.
Except as provided in § 4.88 of this chapter, in cases where landing certificates are required and they cannot be produced, an application for waiver thereof may be made to the Commissioner of CBP through the port director, accompanied by such proof of exportation and landing abroad as may be available.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70167, Nov. 13, 2015]

# Subpart G—CBP Bond Conditions
§ 113.61
General.
Each section in this subpart identifies specific coverage for a particular customs activity. When an individual or organization files a bond with CBP the activity in which they plan on engaging will be identified on the bond. The bond conditions listed in this subpart which correspond to that activity
will be incorporated by reference into the bond.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70167, Nov. 13, 2015]
§ 113.62
Basic importation and entry bond conditions.
A bond for basic importation and entry must contain the conditions listed in this section and may be either a single transaction or a continuous bond.

# Basic Importation and Entry Bond Conditions
(a)
Agreement to Pay Duties, Taxes, and Charges.
(1) If merchandise is imported and released from CBP custody or withdrawn from a CBP bonded warehouse into the commerce of, or for consumption in, the United States, or under § 181.53 or 182.53 of this chapter is withdrawn from a duty-deferral program for exportation to Canada or Mexico or for entry into a duty-deferral program in Canada or Mexico, the obligors (principal and surety, jointly and severally) agree to:
(2) If the principal enters any merchandise into a CBP bonded warehouse, the obligors agree;
(i) To pay any duties, taxes, and charges found to be due on any of that merchandise which remains in the warehouse at the expiration of the warehousing time limit set by law; and
(ii) That the obligation to pay duties, taxes, and charges on the merchandise applies whether it is properly withdrawn by the principal, or by the principal's transferee, or is unlawfully removed by the principal or any other person, without regard to whether the merchandise is manipulated, unless payment was made or secured to be made by some other person.
(3) Under this agreement, the obligation to pay any and all duties, taxes, and charges due on any entry ceases on the date the principal timely files with CBP a bond of the owner in which the owner agrees to pay all duties, taxes, and charges found due on that entry; provided a declaration of the owner has also been properly filed.
(b)
Agreement to Make or Complete Entry.
If all or part of imported merchandise is released before entry under the provisions of the special delivery permit procedures under 19 U.S.C. 1448(b), released before completion of the entry under 19 U.S.C. 1484(a), or withdrawn from warehouse under 19 U.S.C. 1557(a) (see § 10.62b of this chapter), the principal agrees to file within the time and in the manner prescribed by law and regulation, documentation to enable CBP to:
(1) Determine whether the merchandise may be released from CBP custody;
(2) Properly assess duties on the merchandise;
(3) Collect accurate statistics with respect to the merchandise; and
(4) Determine whether applicable requirements of law and regulation are met.
(c)
Agreement to Produce Documents and Evidence.
If merchandise is released conditionally to the principal before all required documents or other evidence is produced, the principal agrees to furnish CBP with any document or evidence as required by law or regulation, and within the time specified by law or regulations.
(d)
Agreement to Redeliver Merchandise.
If merchandise is released conditionally from CBP custody to the principal before all required evidence is produced, before its quantity and value are determined, or before its right of admission into the United States is determined, the principal agrees to redeliver timely, on demand by CBP, the merchandise released if it:
(1) Fails to comply with the laws or regulations governing admission into the United States;
(2) Must be examined, inspected, or appraised as required by 19 U.S.C. 1499; or
(3) Must be marked with the country of origin as required by law or regulation.
It is understood that any demand for redelivery will be made no later than 30 days after the date that the merchandise was released or 30 days after the end of the conditional release period (whichever is later). (See §§ 141.113(b), 12.73(b)(2), and 12.80 of this chapter.)
(e)
Agreement to Rectify Any Non-Compliance with Provisions of Admission.
If merchandise is released conditionally
to the principal before its right of admission into the United States is determined, the principal, after notification, agrees to mark, clean, fumigate, destroy, export or do any other thing to the merchandise in order to comply with the law and regulations governing its admission into the United States within the time period set in the notification.
(f)
Agreement for Examination of Merchandise.
If the principal obtains permission to have any merchandise examined elsewhere than at a wharf or other place in charge of a CBP officer, the principal agrees to:
(1) Hold the merchandise at the place of examination until the merchandise is properly released;
(2) Transfer the merchandise to another place on receipt of instructions from CBP made before release; and
(3) Keep any customs seal or cording on the merchandise intact until the merchandise is examined by CBP.
(g)
Reimbursement and Exoneration of the United States.
The obligors agree to:
(1) Pay the compensation and expenses of any CBP officer, as required by law or regulation; and
(2) Exonerate the United States and its officers from any risk, loss, or expense arising out of principal's importation, entry, or withdrawal of merchandise.
(h)
Agreement on Duty-Free Entries or Withdrawals.
If the principal enters or withdraws any merchandise, without payment of duty and tax, or at a reduced rate of duty and tax, as permitted under the law, the principal agrees:
(1) To use and handle the merchandise in the manner and for the purpose entitling it to duty-free treatment;
(2) If a fishing vessel, to present the original approved application to CBP within 24 hours on each arrival of the vessel in the customs territory of the United States from a fishing voyage;
(3) To furnish timely proof to CBP that any merchandise entered or withdrawn under any law permitting duty-free treatment was used in accordance with that law; and
(4) To keep safely all withdrawn beverages remaining on board while the vessel is in port, as may be required by CBP.
(i)
Agreement to comply with CBP regulations applicable to customs security areas at airports.
If access to the customs security areas at airports is desired, the principal (including its employees, agents, and contractors) agrees to comply with the CBP regulations in this chapter applicable to customs security areas at airports. If the principal defaults, the obligors (principal and surety, joint and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages of $1000 for each default or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation.
(j) The principal agrees to comply with all Importer Security Filing requirements set forth in part 149 of this chapter including but not limited to providing security filing information to CBP in the manner and in the time period prescribed by regulation. If the principal defaults with regard to any obligation, the principal and surety (jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages of $5,000 for each violation.
(k)
Agreement to comply with electronic entry and/or advance cargo information filing requirements.
(1) If the principal is qualified to utilize electronic entry filing as provided for in part 143, of this chapter, the principal agrees to comply with all conditions set forth in part 143 and to send and accept electronic transmissions without the necessity of paper copies.
(2) If the principal elects to provide advance inward air or truck cargo information to CBP electronically, the principal agrees to provide such cargo information to CBP in the manner and in the time period required, respectively, under § 122.48a or § 123.92 of this chapter. If the principal defaults with regard to these obligations, the principal and surety (jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages of $5,000 for each violation.
(l)
Agreement to comply with Air Cargo Advance Screening (ACAS) requirements.
The principal agrees to comply with all ACAS requirements set forth in §§ 122.48a and 122.48b of this chapter including, but not limited to, providing ACAS data to U.S. Customs and Border Protection in the manner and in the time period prescribed by regulation
and taking the necessary action to address ACAS referrals and Do-Not-Load (DNL) instructions as prescribed by regulation. If the principal defaults with regard to these obligations, the principal and surety (jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages of $5,000 for each violation.
(m)
Agreement to ensure and establish issuance of softwood lumber export permit and collection of export fees.
In the case of a softwood lumber product imported from Canada that is subject to the requirement that the Government of Canada issue an export permit pursuant to the Softwood Lumber Agreement, the principal agrees, as set forth in § 12.140 of this chapter, to assume the obligation to ensure within 10 working days of release of the merchandise, and establish to the satisfaction of CBP, that the applicable export permit has been issued by the Government of Canada.
(n)
Consequence of default.
(1) If the principal defaults on agreements in this condition other than conditions in paragraphs (a), (g), (i), (j), (k)(2), (l), or (m) of this section the obligors agree to pay liquidated damages equal to the value of the merchandise involved in the default, or three times the value of the merchandise involved in the default if the merchandise is restricted or prohibited merchandise or alcoholic beverages, or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation.
(2) It is understood and agreed that whether the default involves merchandise is determined by CBP and that the amount to be collected under these conditions will be based upon the quantity and value of the merchandise as determined by CBP. Value as used in these provisions means value as determined under 19 U.S.C. 1401a.
(3) If the principal defaults on agreements in this condition other than conditions (a) or (g) and the default does not involve merchandise, the obligors agree to pay liquidated damages of $1,000 for each default or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation.
(4) If the principal defaults on agreements in the condition set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section only, the obligors (principal and surety, jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages equal to two times the unpaid duties, taxes and charges estimated to be due or $1,000, whichever is greater. A default on the condition set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section will be presumed if any monetary instrument authorized for the payment of estimated duties, taxes and charges by § 24.1(a) of this chapter is returned unpaid by a financial institution, or if a payment authorized under Automated Clearinghouse (see § 24.25 of this chapter) is not transmitted electronically to CBP in a timely manner. If the principal defaults on agreements in both of the conditions as set forth in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (b) of this section, the measure of liquidated damages assessed will be as provided in paragraph (n)(1) of this section for a default of the agreements in the condition set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph, the phrase “unpaid duties, taxes and charges” will include any appropriate ad valorem fees described in § 24.23 of this chapter, fees relating to dutiable mail described in § 24.22(f) of this chapter, and harbor maintenance fees described in § 24.24(e)(3) (i) and (ii) of this chapter.
(5) If the principal defaults on agreements in the condition set forth in paragraph (m) of this section only, the obligors agree to pay liquidated damages equal to $100 per thousand board feet of the imported lumber.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 113.62, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 113.63
Basic custodial bond conditions.
A basic custodial bond must contain the conditions listed in this section and must be a continuous bond.

# Basic Custodial Bond Conditions
(a)
Receipt of Merchandise.
The principal agrees:
(1) To operate as a custodian of any bonded merchandise received, including merchandise collected for transport to his facility, and to comply with all
regulations regarding the receipt, carriage, safekeeping, and disposition of such merchandise;
(2) To accept only merchandise authorized under CBP regulations;
(3) To maintain all records required by CBP regulations relating to merchandise received into bond, and to produce the records upon demand by an authorized CBP officer;
(4) If authorized to use the alternative transfer procedure set forth in § 144.34(c) of this chapter, to operate as constructive custodian for all merchandise transferred under those procedures, thereby assuming primary responsibility for the continued proper custody of the merchandise notwithstanding its geographical location;
(5) If authorized to operate a container station under the CBP regulations, to report promptly to CBP each arrival of a container and its merchandise by delivery of the manifest and the application for transfer, or by other approved notice.
(b)
Carriage and Safekeeping of Merchandise.
The principal agrees:
(1) If a bonded carrier, to use only authorized means of conveyance;
(2) To keep safe any merchandise placed in its custody including, when approved by CBP, repacking and transferring such merchandise when necessary for its safety or preservation;
(3) To comply with CBP regulations relating to the handling of bonded merchandise; and
(4) If authorized to use the alternative transfer procedure set forth in § 144.34(c) of this chapter, to keep safe any merchandise so transferred.
(c)
Disposition of Merchandise.
The principal agrees:
(1) If a bonded carrier, to report in-bond arrivals and exportations in the manner and in the time prescribed by regulation and to export in-bond merchandise in the time periods prescribed by regulation.
(2) If a cartage or lighterage business, to deliver promptly and safely to CBP any merchandise placed in the principal's custody together with any related cartage and lighterage ticket and manifest;
(3) To dispose of merchandise in a manner authorized by CBP regulations; and
(4) To file timely with CBP any report required by CBP regulations.
(5) In the case of Class 9 warehouses, to provide reasonable assurance of exportation of merchandise withdrawn under the sales ticket procedure of § 144.37(h) of this chapter.
(d)
Agreement to Redeliver Merchandise to CBP.
If the principal is designated a bonded carrier, or licensed to operate a cartage or lighterage business, or authorized to use the alternative transfer procedure set forth in § 144.34(c) of this chapter, the principal agrees to redeliver timely, on demand by CBP, any merchandise delivered to unauthorized locations or to the consignee without the permission of CBP. It is understood that the demand for redelivery shall be made no later than 30 days after CBP discovers the improper delivery.
(e)
Compliance with Licensing and Operating Requirements.
The principal agrees to comply with all customs laws and CBP regulations relating to principal's facilities, conveyances, and employees.
(f)
Agreement to comply with CBP regulations applicable to customs security areas at airports.
If access to customs security areas at airports is desired, the principal (including its employee, agents, and contractors) agrees to comply with the CBP regulations applicable to customs security areas at airports. If the principal defaults, the obligors (principal and surety, jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages of $1000 for each default or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation.
(g) The principal agrees to comply with all Importer Security Filing requirements set forth in part 149 of this chapter including but not limited to providing security filing information to CBP in the manner and in the time period prescribed by regulation. If the principal defaults with regard to any obligation, the principal and surety (jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages of $5,000 per violation.
(h)
Agreement to comply with Air Cargo Advance Screening (ACAS) requirements.
The principal agrees to comply with all ACAS requirements set forth in §§ 122.48a and 122.48b of this chapter including, but not limited to, providing ACAS data to U.S. Customs and Border
Protection in the manner and in the time period prescribed by regulation and taking the necessary action to address ACAS referrals and Do-Not-Load (DNL) instructions as prescribed by regulation. If the principal defaults with regard to these obligations, the principal and surety (jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages of $5,000 for each violation.
(i)
Reimbursement and Exoneration of the United States.
The principal and surety agree to:
(1) Pay the compensation and expenses of any CBP officer as required by law or regulation;
(2) Pay the cost of any locks, seals, and other fastenings required by CBP regulations for securing merchandise placed in the principal's custody;
(3) Pay for any expenses connected with the suspension or termination of the bonded status of the premises;
(4) Exonerate the United States and its officers from any risk, loss, or expense arising out of the principal's custodial operation; and
(5) Pay any charges found to be due CBP arising out of the principal's custodial operation.
(j)
Consequence of Default.
(1) If the principal defaults on conditions (a) through (e) in this agreement, the obligors (principal and surety, jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages equal to the value of the merchandise involved in the default or three times the value of the merchandise involved in the default if the merchandise is restricted or prohibited merchandise or alcoholic beverages, or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation.
(2) It is understood and agreed that the amount to be collected under conditions (a) through (e) of this agreement will be based upon the quantity and value of the merchandise as determined by CBP. Value as used in these provisions means value as determined under 19 U.S.C. 1401a.
(3) If the principal defaults on conditions (a) through (e) in this agreement and the default does not involve merchandise, the obligors agree to pay liquidated damages of $1,000 for each default or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation. It is understood and agreed that whether the default involves merchandise is determined by CBP.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 113.63, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 113.64
International carrier bond conditions.
A bond for international carriers must contain the conditions listed in this section and may be either a single transaction or continuous bond.

# International Carrier Bond Conditions
(a)
Agreement to Pay Penalties, Duties, Taxes, and Other Charges.
If any vessel, vehicle, or aircraft, or any master, owner, or person in charge of a vessel, vehicle or aircraft, slot charterer, or any non-vessel operating common carrier as defined in § 4.7(b)(3)(ii) of this chapter or other party as specified in § 122.48a(c)(1)(ii)-(c)(1)(iv) or § 122.48b(c)(2) of this chapter, incurs a penalty, duty, tax or other charge provided by law or regulation, the obligors (principal and surety, jointly and severally) agree to pay the sum upon demand by CBP. If the principal (carrier or operator) fails to pay the fees for processing letters, documents, records, shipments, merchandise, or other items on or before the last day of the month that follows the close of the calendar quarter to which the processing fees relate pursuant to § 24.23(b)(4) of this chapter, the obligors (principal and surety, jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages equal to two times the processing fees not timely paid to CBP as prescribed by regulation.
(b)
Agreement to pay liquidated damages
—(1)
Passenger processing fees:
If the principal (carrier) fails to pay passenger processing fees to CBP within 31 calendar days after the close of the calendar quarter in which they were required to be collected pursuant to § 24.22(g) of this chapter, the obligors (principal and surety, jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages equal to two times the passenger processing fees that were required to be collected but not timely remitted to CBP,
regardless of whether such fees were in fact collected from passengers, as prescribed by regulation.
(2)
Railroad car processing fees:
If the principal (carrier) fails to pay railroad car processing fees to CBP within 60 calendar days after the close of the calendar month in which they were collected pursuant to § 24.22(d) of this chapter, the obligors (principal and surety, jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages equal to two times the railroad car processing fees which have not been timely paid to CBP as prescribed by regulation.
(3)
Reimbursement fees payable by express consignment carrier and centralized hub facilities.
If the principal (carrier) fails to timely pay the reimbursement fees payable to CBP by express consignment carrier facilities and centralized carrier facilities pursuant to the terms set forth in § 24.23(b)(4) of this chapter, the obligors (principal and surety, jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages equal to two times the fees which have not been timely paid to CBP as prescribed by that section.
(c)
Agreement on Unlading, Safekeeping, and Disposition of Merchandise, Supplies, Crew Purchases, Etc.
The principal agrees to comply with all laws and CBP regulations applicable to unlading, safekeeping, and disposition of merchandise, supplies, crew purchases, and other articles on board the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft; and to redeliver the foregoing to CBP upon demand as provided by CBP regulations. If principal defaults, obligors agree to pay liquidated damages equal to the value of the merchandise involved in the default or three times the value of the merchandise involved in the default if the merchandise is restricted or prohibited merchandise or alcoholic beverages, or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation. It is understood and agreed that the amount to be collected under this condition will be based upon the quantity and value of the merchandise as determined by CBP. Value as used in these provisions means value as determined under 19 U.S.C. 1401a.
(d)
Agreement to provide advance cargo information.
The incoming carrier agrees to provide advance cargo information to CBP in the manner and in the time period required under §§ 4.7 and 4.7a of this chapter. If the incoming carrier, as principal, defaults with regard to these obligations, the principal and surety (jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages of $5,000 for each violation, to a maximum of $100,000 per conveyance arrival.
(e)
Non-vessel operating common carrier (NVOCC); other party.
If a slot charterer, non-vessel operating common carrier (NVOCC) as defined in § 4.7(b)(3)(ii) of this chapter, or other party specified in § 122.48a(c)(1)(ii)-(c)(1)(iv) of this chapter, elects to provide advance cargo information to CBP electronically, the NVOCC or other party, as a principal under this bond, in addition to compliance with the other provisions of this bond, also agrees to provide such cargo information to CBP in the manner and in the time period required under those respective sections. If the NVOCC or other party, as principal, defaults with regard to these obligations, the principal and surety (jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages of $5,000 for each violation, to a maximum of $100,000 per conveyance arrival.
(f)
Agreement to comply with Importer Security Filing requirements.
If the principal elects to provide the Importer Security Filing information to Customs and Border Protection (CBP), the principal agrees to comply with all Importer Security Filing requirements set forth in part 149 of this chapter including but not limited to providing security filing information to CBP in the manner and in the time period prescribed by regulation. If the principal defaults with regard to any obligation, the principal and surety (jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages of $5,000 for each violation.
(g)
Agreement to comply with vessel stow plan requirements.
If the principal causes a vessel to arrive within the limits of a port in the United States, the principal agrees to submit a stow plan in the manner and in the time period required pursuant to part 4.7c of this chapter. If the principal defaults with regard to this obligation, the principal and surety (jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages of $50,000 for each vessel arrival.
(h)
Agreement to comply with container status message requirements.
If the principal causes a vessel to arrive within the limits of a port in the United States, the principal agrees to submit container status messages in the manner and in the time period required pursuant to part 4.7d of this chapter. If the principal defaults with regard to these obligations, the principal and surety (jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages of $5,000 for each violation, to a maximum of $100,000 per vessel arrival.
(i)
Agreement to comply with Air Cargo Advance Screening (ACAS) requirements.
(1) The inbound air carrier agrees to comply with all ACAS requirements set forth in §§ 122.48a and 122.48b of this chapter including, but not limited to, providing ACAS data to U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) in the manner and in the time period prescribed by regulation and taking the necessary action to address ACAS referrals and Do-Not-Load (DNL) instructions as prescribed by regulation. If the inbound air carrier, as principal, defaults with regard to these obligations, the principal and surety (jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages of $5,000 for each violation, to a maximum of $100,000 per conveyance arrival.
(2) If a party specified in § 122.48b(c)(2) of this chapter provides the ACAS data to CBP, that party, as principal under this bond, agrees to comply with all ACAS requirements set forth in §§ 122.48a and 122.48b of this chapter including, but not limited to, providing ACAS data to CBP in the manner and in the time period prescribed by regulation and taking the necessary action to address ACAS referrals and Do-Not-Load (DNL) instructions as prescribed by regulation. If the principal defaults with regard to these obligations, the principal and surety (jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages of $5,000 for each violation, to a maximum of $100,000 per conveyance arrival.
(j)
Agreement to Deliver Export Documents.
If the principal's vessel, vehicle, or aircraft is granted clearance without filing a complete outward manifest and all required export documents, the principal agrees to file timely the required manifest and all required export documents. If the principal defaults, the obligors agree to pay liquidated damages of $1,100 for each day's delinquency beyond the prescribed period, but not more than $10,000 per violation.
(k)
Agreement to comply with CBP regulations applicable to customs security areas at airports.
If access to customs security areas at airports is desired, the principal (including its employees, agents, and contractors) agrees to comply with the CBP regulations applicable to customs security areas at airports. If the principal defaults, the obligors (principal and surety, jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages of $1000 for each default or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation.
(l)
Exoneration of the United States.
The obligors agree to exonerate the United States and its officers from any risk, loss, or expense arising out of entry or clearance of the carrier, or handling of the articles on board.
(m)
Unlawful disposition.
(1) Principal agrees that it will not allow seized or detained merchandise, marked with warning labels of the fact of seizure or detention, to be placed on board a vessel, vehicle, or aircraft for exportation or to be otherwise disposed of without written permission from CBP, and that if it fails to prevent such placement or other disposition, it will redeliver the merchandise to CBP within 30 days, upon demand made within 10 days of CBP discovery of the unlawful placement or other disposition.
(2) Principal agrees that it will act, in regard to merchandise in its possession on the date the redelivery demand is issued, in accordance with any CBP demand for redelivery made within 10 days of CBP discovery that there is reasonable cause to believe that the merchandise was exported in violation of the export control laws.
(3) Obligors agree that if the principal defaults in either of these obligations, they will pay, as liquidated damages, an amount equal to three times the value of the merchandise which was not redelivered.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 113.64, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the
Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 113.65
Repayment of erroneous drawback payment bond conditions.
A bond for repayment of erroneous drawback must contain the conditions listed in this section and may be either a single transaction or continuous bond.

# Repayment of Erroneous Drawback Payment Bond Conditions
(a)
Agreement Under Exporter's Summary Procedure.
If the principal is permitted to file drawback claims under the exporter's summary procedure and the principal's drawback claims are paid before a final determination that the principal:
(1) Is entitled to the drawback claimed.
(2) Correctly described the exported articles in the claim.
(3) Correctly stated the facts of exportation in the claim; the principal and surety, jointly and severally agree to refund, on demand, any money claimed by CBP to have been erroneously paid as a result of an incorrect statement on the drawback claim, and
(4) The principal agrees to pay any charges due CBP as provided by law or regulation.
(b)
Agreement Under Accelerated Payment of Drawback.
If the principal receives an accelerated payment of drawback based on the principal's calculation of the drawback claim, the principal and surety, jointly and severally agree to refund on demand the full amount of any overpayment, as determined on liquidation of the drawback claim.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended by T.D. 86-178, 51 FR 34959, Oct. 1, 1986; T.D. 88-72, 53 FR 45902, Nov. 15, 1988; CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70168, Nov. 13, 2015]
§ 113.66
Control of containers and instruments of international traffic bond conditions.
A bond for control of containers and instruments of international traffic must contain the conditions listed in this section and must be a continuous bond.

# Control of Containers and Instruments of International Traffic Bond Conditions
(a)
Agreement to Enter Any Diverted Instrument of International Traffic.
If a principal brings in and takes out of the customs territory of the United States an instrument of international traffic without entry and without payment of duty, as provided by the CBP regulations and section 322(a), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1322(a)) the principal agrees to:
(1) Report promptly to CBP when the instrument is diverted to point-to-point local traffic in the customs territory of the United States or when the instrument is otherwise withdrawn in the customs territory of the United States from its use as an instrument of international traffic.
(2) Promptly enter the instrument unless exempt from entry; and
(3) Pay any duty due on the instrument at the rate in effect and in its condition on the date of diversion or withdrawal.
(b)
Agreement to Comply With the Provisions of subheading 9801.00.10, or 9803.00.50 Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS).
If the principal gets free release of any serially numbered shipping container classifiable under subheading 9801.00.10 or 9803.00.50, HTSUS, the principal agrees:
(1) Not to advance the value or improve its condition abroad or claim (or make a previous claim) drawback on, any container released under subheading 9801.00.10, HTSUS;
(2) To pay the initial duty due and otherwise comply with every condition in subheading 9803.00.50, HTSUS, on any container released under that item;
(3) To mark that container in the manner required by CBP;
(4) To keep records which show the current status of that container in service and the disposition of that container if taken out of service; and
(5) To remove or strike out the markings on that container when it is taken out of service or when the principal transfers ownership of it.
(c)
Agreement to comply with application approved under 19 CFR 10.41b(b).
If the principal establishes a program for
the cross-border movements of shipping devices based upon an application approved as provided in § 10.41b(b) of this chapter (19 CFR 10.41b(b)), the principal agrees:
(1) To timely file complete and accurate reports on the shipping devices, and to pay any applicable duty due on the devices and repairs made to such devices, as provided in the approved application;
(2) To retain complete and accurate records regarding the shipping devices, and to make such records available to CBP for inspection and audit upon reasonable notice, as also required in the approved application; and
(3) To otherwise comply with every other condition of the approved application.
(d)
Consequence of Default.
(1) If the principal defaults on agreements in these conditions, the obligors (principal and surety, jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages equal to the value of the merchandise involved in the default or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation.
(2) It is understood and agreed that the amount to be collected under these conditions will be based upon the quantity and value of the merchandise as determined by CBP.
(3) If the principal defaults on the agreements in these conditions and the default does not involve merchandise, the obligors agree to pay liquidated damages of $1,000 for each default or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation. It is understood and agreed that whether the default involves merchandise is determined by CBP.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended by T.D. 88-72, 53 FR 45902, Nov. 15, 1988; T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51255, Dec. 21, 1988; T.D. 96-20, 61 FR 7990, Mar. 1, 1996; CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70169, Nov. 13, 2015]
§ 113.67
Commercial gauger and commercial laboratory bond conditions.

# Commercial Gauger Bond Conditions
(a)
Commercial gauger bond conditions.
A commercial gauger's bond must contain the conditions listed in this section and must be a continuous bond.
(1) If the principal is a commercial gauger whose reports of gauging or whose samples are accepted for CBP purposes, the principal agrees to:
(i) Gauge or sample merchandise according to the standards and procedures set out in the CBP regulations;
(ii) Abide by the requirements set out in § 151.13(b) of this chapter; and
(iii) Submit properly any required report, proof, abstract, or sample to CBP.
(2)(i) If the principal defaults, the obligors (principal and surety) agree to pay liquidated damages equal to the value of the merchandise involved in the default or three times the value of the merchandise involved in the default if the merchandise is restricted or prohibited merchandise or alcoholic beverages or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation.
(ii) If the principal defaults on the agreements in these conditions and the default does not involve merchandise, the obligors agree to pay liquidated damages of $1,000 for each default or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation.
(iii) It is understood and agreed that whether the default involves merchandise is determined by CBP, that the amount to be collected under this condition will be based on the quantity and value of the merchandise as determined by CBP and that value as used in these provisions means value as determined under 19 U.S.C. 1401a.

# Commercial Laboratory Bond Conditions
(b)
Commercial laboratory bond conditions.
A commercial laboratory's bond must contain the conditions listed in this subsection and must be a continuous bond.
(1) If the principal is a commercial laboratory whose laboratory analysis reports are accepted for CBP purposes, the principal agrees to:
(i) Conduct laboratory analyses according to the standards and procedures set out in the CBP regulations;
(ii) Abide by the requirements set out in §§ 151.12(c) and 151.14 of this chapter; and
(iii) Submit properly any required report, proof, abstract, or sample to CBP.
(2)(i) If the principal defaults, the obligors (principal and surety, jointly and
severally) agree to pay liquidated damages equal to the value of the merchandise involved in the default or three times the value of the merchandise involved in the default if the merchandise is restricted or prohibited merchandise or alcoholic beverages or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation.
(ii) If the principal defaults on the agreements in these conditions and the default does not involve merchandise, the obligors agree to pay liquidated damages of $1,000 for each default or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation.
(iii) It is understood and agreed that whether the default involves merchandise is determined by CBP, that the amount to be collected under this condition shall be based on the quantity and value of the merchandise as determined by CBP and that value as used in these provisions means value as determined under 19 U.S.C. 1401a.
[T.D. 87-39, 52 FR 9787, Mar. 26, 1987, as amended by T.D. 88-72, 53 FR 45902, Nov. 15, 1988; T.D. 99-67, 64 FR 48534, Sept. 7, 1999; T.D. 01-26, 66 FR 16854, Mar. 28, 2001; CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70169, Nov. 13, 2015]
§ 113.68
Wool and fur products labeling acts and fiber products identification act bond conditions.
A bond to comply with wool and fur products labeling acts and fiber products identification act must contain the conditions listed in this section and must be a single transaction bond.

# Wool and Fur Products Labeling Acts and Fiber Products Identification Act
(a) If the principal obtains release from CBP custody of any wool or fur product (hereafter “merchandise”) that is subject to the provisions of the Wool Products Labeling Act of 1939, the Fur Products Labeling Act, or the Fiber Products Identification Act, the principal guarantees that the merchandise complies with every provision of those Acts, as applicable.
(b) If any of the released merchandise does not comply with each applicable provision of the Wool Products Labeling Act of 1939, the Fur Products Labeling Act, or the Fiber Products Identification Act, the obligors (principal or surety, jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages equal to two times the value of the merchandise involved in the default and duty thereon. It is understood and agreed that the amount to be collected under this condition will be based upon the quantity and value of the merchandise as determined by CBP. Value as used in these provisions means value as determined under 19 U.S.C. 1401a.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended by T.D. 88-72, 53 FR 45902, Nov. 15, 1988; CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70169, Nov. 13, 2015]
§ 113.69
Production of bills of lading bond conditions.
A bond to produce a bill of lading must contain the conditions listed in this section and must be a single transaction bond.

# Production of Bill of Lading Bond Conditions
If the principal obtains release of any merchandise before filing a valid bill of lading on that merchandise with CBP, the obligors (principal and surety, jointly and severally) agree to:
(a) Produce timely a valid bill of lading for the merchandise; and
(b) Relieve the United States and its employees from all liability, to indemnify the United States and its employees against loss, and defend any action brought on a claim for loss based on the release without production of a valid bill of lading.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended by T.D. 88-72, 53 FR 45902, Nov. 15, 1988; CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70169, Nov. 13, 2015]
§ 113.70
Bond conditions for owners of recorded marks or recorded copyrights to obtain samples from CBP relating to importation of merchandise suspected of, or seized for, infringing recorded marks or recorded copyrights, or circumventing copyright protection measures.
(a) Prior to obtaining samples of imported merchandise pursuant to § 133.21(b)(3) or (5), § 133.25(c), § 133.42(b)(3) or (5), or § 133.47(b)(3) or (5) of this chapter, for suspected infringement of a recorded mark or recorded
copyright, or suspected circumvention of a protection measure safeguarding a recorded copyright, the owner of the recorded mark or the recorded copyright must furnish to CBP either a single transaction bond or a continuous bond in the amount specified by CBP containing the conditions listed in this paragraph (a).
(1)
Bond conditions for owners of recorded marks or recorded copyrights to obtain samples from CBP relating to importation of merchandise suspected of infringing such recorded marks or recorded copyrights, or circumventing copyright protection measures
—(i)
Agreement to use sample for limited purpose of assisting CBP.
If CBP provides to an owner of a recorded mark or a recorded copyright a sample of imported merchandise suspected of infringing the recorded mark or copyright, or suspected of circumventing a copyright protection measure, including samples provided pursuant to § 133.21(b)(3) or (5), § 133.25(c), § 133.42(b)(3) or (5), or § 133.47(b)(3) or (5) of this chapter, the obligors (principal and surety) agree that such samples may only be used for the limited purpose of providing assistance to CBP in enforcing intellectual property rights.
(ii)
Agreement to indemnify
—(A)
Improper use of sample.
If the sample identified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section is used by the owner of the recorded mark or the recorded copyright for any purpose other than to provide assistance to CBP in enforcing intellectual property rights, the obligors (principal and surety) agree to indemnify the importer or owner of the imported merchandise, in the amount specified by CBP, against any loss or damage resulting from the improper use.
(B)
Physical loss, damage, or destruction of disclosed sample.
The owner of a recorded mark or a recorded copyright must return any sample identified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section upon demand by CBP or at the conclusion of any examination, testing, or similar procedure performed on the sample, whichever occurs sooner. If the sample identified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section is lost, damaged, or destroyed as a result of CBP's furnishing it to such owner, the obligors (principal and surety) agree to indemnify the importer or owner of the imported merchandise, in the amount specified by CBP, against any resulting loss or damage.
(2) [Reserved]
(b) Prior to obtaining samples of imported merchandise pursuant to § 133.21(f), § 133.42(f), or § 133.47(f) of this chapter, seized for infringement of a recorded mark or recorded copyright, or circumvention of a protection measure safeguarding a recorded copyright, the owner of the recorded mark or recorded copyright must furnish to CBP either a single transaction bond or continuous bond in the amount specified by CBP containing the conditions listed in this paragraph (b).
(1)
Bond conditions for owners of recorded marks or recorded copyrights to obtain samples from CBP relating to importation of merchandise seized for infringing such recorded marks or recorded copyrights, or circumventing copyright protection measures.
If CBP provides to an owner of a recorded mark or a recorded copyright a sample of imported merchandise seized for infringing the recorded mark or recorded copyright, or circumventing a copyright protection measure, including samples provided pursuant to § 133.21(f), § 133.42(f), or § 133.47(f) of this chapter, the owner of the recorded mark or recorded copyright must return the sample upon demand by CBP or at the conclusion of any examination, testing, or other use, such as pursuit of a related civil remedy for infringement, whichever occurs sooner. If the sample is lost, damaged, or destroyed as a result of CBP's furnishing it to such owner, the obligors (principal and surety) agree to indemnify the importer or owner of the imported merchandise, in the amount specified by CBP, against any resulting loss or damage.
(2) [Reserved]
[CBP Dec. 24-03, 89 FR 52373, June 24, 2024]
§ 113.71
Bond condition to observe neutrality.
A bond to observe neutrality must contain the conditions listed in this section and must be a single transaction bond.

# Bond Condition To Observe Neutrality
(a) If clearance is granted to the principal's vessel, which is armed or is built for a war-like purpose, with a cargo of arms and munitions, so that it is likely to be used to commit hostilities against people or countries with whom the Government of the United States is at peace, the principal guarantees that the vessel will not be used to commit hostilities against any country, state, colony, or people with whom the Government is at peace.
(b) If the principal defaults, the obligors (principal and surety, jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages equal to twice the value of the vessel and cargo.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended by T.D. 88-72, 53 FR 45902, Nov. 15, 1988; CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70169, Nov. 13, 2015]
§ 113.72
Bond condition to pay court costs (condemned goods).
A bond to pay court costs (condemned goods) must contain the condition listed in this section and must be a single transaction bond.

# Bond Condition To Pay Court Costs (Condemned Goods)
If any seized goods belonging to principal are condemned the obligors (principal and surety, jointly and severally) agree to pay all costs of the condemnation proceedings.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended by T.D. 88-72, 53 FR 45902, Nov. 15, 1988; CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70169, Nov. 13, 2015]
§ 113.73
Foreign trade zone operator bond conditions.
A bond of a foreign trade zone operator must contain the conditions listed in this section and must be a continuous bond.

# Foreign Trade Zone Operator Bond Conditions
If the principal is authorized to operate a foreign trade zone or subzone:
(a)
Receipt, Handling, and Disposition of Merchandise.
The principal agrees to comply with:
(1) The law and CBP regulations relating to the receipt (including merchandise received and receipted for transport to his zone), admission, status, handling, transfer, and removal of merchandise from the foreign trade zone or subzone, and
(2) The CBP regulations concerning the maintenance of inventory control and recordkeeping systems covering merchandise in the foreign trade zone or subzone. If the principal defaults and the default involves merchandise other than domestic merchandise for which no permit for admission is required, the obligors (principal and surety, jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages equal to the value of the merchandise involved in the default, or three times the value of the merchandise involved in the default if the merchandise is restricted or prohibited merchandise or alcoholic beverages, or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation. It is understood and agreed that whether the default involves merchandise is a determination made by CBP, that the amount to be collected under this condition will be based upon the quantity and value of the merchandise as determined by CBP, and that value as used in these provisions means value as determined under 19 U.S.C. 1401a. If the principal defaults and the default does not involve merchandise, the obligors agree to pay liquidated damages of $1,000 for each default, or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulations.
(b)
Agreement to Pay Duties, Taxes, and Charges.
The obligors agree to pay any duties, taxes, and charges found to be due on any merchandise, properly admitted to the foreign trade zone or subzone, which is found to be missing from the zone or cannot be accounted for in the zone, it being expressly understood and agreed that the amount of said duties, taxes, and charges will be determined solely by CBP.
(c)
Agreement to comply with Importer Security Filing requirements.
The principal agrees to comply with all Importer Security Filing requirements set forth in part 149 of this chapter including but not limited to providing security filing information to CBP in the
manner and in the time period prescribed by regulation. If the principal defaults with regard to any obligation, the principal and surety (jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages of $5,000 for each violation.
(d)
Reimbursement and Exoneration of the United States.
The obligors agree to:
(1) Exonerate the United States and its officers from any risk, loss, or expense arising from the principal's operation of the foreign trade zone or subzone;
(2) Pay the compensation and expenses of any CBP Officer, as required by law or regulations.
(e)
Payment of Annual Fee.
The principal agrees to pay timely any annual fee or fees as provided in the CBP regulations. If the principal defaults, the obligors agree to pay liquidated damages equal to the amount of the annual fee due but not paid and an amount equal to one percent of the annual fee for each of the first seven days the annual fee is in arrears, two percent of the annual fee for each of the succeeding seven days the annual fee is in arrears, and three percent of the annual fee for each day thereafter in which the annual fee is in arrears.
[T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended by T.D. 86-16, 51 FR 5063, Feb. 11, 1986; T.D. 88-72, 53 FR 45902, Nov. 15, 1988; T.D. 94-81, 59 FR 51495, Oct. 12, 1994; T.D. 01-26, 66 FR 16854, Mar. 28, 2001; CBP Dec. 08-46, 73 FR 71781, Nov. 25, 2008; CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70169, Nov. 13, 2015]
§ 113.74
Bond conditions to indemnify a complainant under section 337 of Tariff Act of 1930, as amended.
A bond to indemnify a complainant under section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, must contain the conditions listed in appendix B to this part. The bond must be a single transaction bond and must be filed in accordance with the provisions set forth in 19 CFR 12.39(b)(2). For the forfeiture or return of this bond, the provisions of 19 CFR 210.50(d) will apply.
[T.D. 00-87, 65 FR 77815, Dec. 13, 2000, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70169, Nov. 13, 2015]
§ 113.75
Bond conditions for deferral of duty on large yachts imported for sale at United States boat shows.
A bond for the deferral of entry completion and duty deposit pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 1484b for a dutiable large yacht imported for sale at a United States boat show must conform to the terms of appendix C to this part. The bond must be filed in accordance with the provisions set forth in § 4.94a of this chapter.
[68 FR 13626, Mar. 20, 2003]
Pt. 113, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 113—Airport Customs Security Area Bond

# AIRPORT CUSTOMS SECURITY AREA BOND
______(name of principal) of ______(address) and ______(name of surety) of ______(address) are held and firmly bound unto the United States of America in the sum of ____dollars ($____), for the payment of which we bind ourselves, our heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns, jointly and severally, by these conditions.
WITNESS our hands and seals this ____day of ____, 20____. WHEREAS, the principal (including the principal's employees, agents, and contractors) desires access to airport customs security areas;
Now, Therefore, the Condition of this Obligation is Such That—
The principal agrees to comply with the CBP regulations applicable to customs security areas at airports. If the principal defaults on the condition of this obligation, the principal and surety, jointly and severally, agree to pay liquidated damages of $1,000 for each default; or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation. This bond is effective ______, 20____, and remains in force for one year beginning with the effective date and for each succeeding annual period, or until terminated. This bond constitutes a separate bond for each annual period in the amount listed above for liabilities that accrue in each annual period.
Signed, Sealed, and Delivered in the Presence of —
Name
Address
Name
Address
Principal (SEAL)
Name
Address
Name
Address
Name
Address
Surety (SEAL)
Name
Address
[CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70169, Nov. 13, 2015]
Pt. 113, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 113—Bond To Indemnify Complainant Under Section 337, Tariff Act of 1930, as Amended
This appendix contains the bond to indemnify a complainant under section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended. The provisions contained in §§ 12.39(b)(2) and 113.74 of the CBP Regulations (19 CFR Chapter I) and § 210.50(d) of the U.S. International Trade Commission Regulations (19 CFR Chapter II) apply.

# Bond Toto Indemnify Complainant Under Section 337, Tariff Act of 1930, As Amended
____________ as principal and ________ as surety, are held and bound to ____________, as the complainant in U.S. International Trade Commission case/investigation number ________, of unfair practices or methods of competition in import trade in violation of section 337, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, in the sum of ________ dollars ($________), for payment of which we bind ourselves, our heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns, jointly and severally, by these conditions.
Pursuant to the provisions of section 337, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, the principal and surety recognize that the Commission has, according to the conditions described in its order, excluded from, or authorized, entry into the United States of the following merchandise ________________________________________ under entry number ____________, dated ____________.
The principal and surety recognize that the Commission has excluded that merchandise from entry until its investigation is completed, or until its decision that there is a violation of section 337 becomes final.
The principal and surety recognize that certain merchandise excluded from entry by the Commission was, or may be, offered for entry into the United States while the Commission's prohibition is in effect.
The principal and surety recognize that the principal desires to obtain a release of that merchandise pending a final determination of the merchandise's admissibility into the United States, as provided under section 337, and, for that purpose, the principal and surety execute this stipulation:
If it is determined, as provided in section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, to exclude that merchandise from the United States, then, on notification from the CBP, the principal is obligated to export or destroy under CBP supervision the merchandise released under this stipulation within 30 days from the date of the CBP's notification.
The principal and surety, jointly and severally, agree that if the principal defaults on that obligation, the principal and surety shall pay to the complainant an amount equal to the face value of the bond as may be demanded by him/her under the applicable law and regulations.
Witness our hands and seals this ________ day of ____________ (month), ________ (year).
________________ (seal)
Principal
________________ (seal)
Surety
[T.D. 00-87, 65 FR 77815, Dec. 13, 2000; 65 FR 80497, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70170, Nov. 13, 2015; CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93017, Dec. 20, 2016]
Pt. 113, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 113—Bond for Deferral of Duty on Large Yachts Imported for Sale at United States Boat Shows

# Bond for Deferral of Duty on Large Yachts Imported for Sale at United States Boat Shows
________, as principal, and ________, as surety, are held and firmly bound to the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA in the sum of ________ dollars ($________), for the payment of which we bind ourselves, our heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns, jointly and severally, firmly by these conditions.
Pursuant to the provisions of 19 U.S.C. 1484b, the principal has imported at the port of ________ a dutiable large yacht (exceeding 79 feet in length, used primarily for recreation or pleasure, and previously sold by a manufacturer or dealer to a consumer) identified as ________ for sale at a boat show in the United States with deferral of entry completion and duty deposit and has executed this obligation as a condition precedent to that deferral.
A failure to inform CBP in writing of an exportation, or to complete the required entry, within the 6-month bond period will give rise to a claim for liquidated damages unless the principal informs CBP of the exportation or completes the entry within the
time limits prescribed in 19 CFR 4.94a. If the principal fails to comply with any condition of this obligation, which includes compliance with any requirement or condition set forth in 19 U.S.C. 1484b or 19 CFR 4.94a, the principal and surety jointly and severally agree to pay to CBP an amount of liquidated damages equal to twice the amount of duty on the large yacht that would otherwise be imposed under subheading 8903.91.00 or 8903.92.00 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States. For purposes of this paragraph, the term duty includes any duties, taxes, fees and charges imposed by law.
The principal will exonerate and hold harmless the United States and its officers from or on account of any risk, loss, or expense of any kind or description connected with or arising from the failure to store and deliver the large yacht as required, as well as from any loss or damage resulting from fraud or negligence on the part of any officer, agent, or other person employed by the principal.
WITNESS our hands and seals this ________ day of ________ (month), ________ (Year).
(Name) (Address)
______________________________ [SEAL]
(Principal)
______________________________ [SEAL]
(Name) (Address)
______________________________ [SEAL]
(Surety)

# Certificate as to Corporate Principal
I, __________, certify that I am the* __________ of the corporation named as principal in the attached bond; that __________, who signed the bond on behalf of the principal, was then __________ of that corporation; that I know his signature, and his signature to the bond is genuine; and that the bond was duly signed, sealed, and attested for and in behalf of the corporation by authority to its governing body.
______________________________
(CORPORATE SEAL)
(To be used when no power of attorney has been filed with CBP.)
*May be executed by the secretary, assistant secretary, or other officer of the corporation.
[68 FR 13626, Mar. 20, 2003, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70170, Nov. 13, 2015; CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93017, Dec. 20, 2016]
Pt. 113, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 113—Importer Security Filing Bond
This appendix contains the relevant terms and conditions for Importer Security Filing Bonds.

# Importer Security Filing Bond
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that ______________________ of ____________________________, as principal having Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Identification Number ____________ and ________________, as surety are held and firmly bound unto the United States of America up to the sum of ____________ dollars ($____________) for the payment of which we bind ourselves, our heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns, jointly and severally, firmly by these presents.
Whereas, the named principal (including the named principal's employees, agents and contractors) agrees to comply with all Importer Security Filing requirements set forth in 19 CFR part 149, including but not limited to providing security filing information to CBP in the manner and in the time period prescribed by regulation.
If the principal defaults on the conditions of this obligation, the principal and surety jointly and severally, agree to pay liquidated damages of $5,000 for each violation, or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation upon demand by CBP.

# [Complete this paragraph only for a single transaction bond]
This single transaction bond secures the single transaction identified by Importer Security Filing transaction number ______________________ issued by CBP on ____________, 20____________.

# [Complete this paragraph only for a continuous bond]
This continuous bond is effective ____________, 20____________, and remains in force for one year beginning with the effective date and for each succeeding annual period, or until terminated. This bond constitutes a separate bond for each period in the amount listed above for liabilities that accrue in each period. The intention to terminate this bond must be conveyed within the period and manner prescribed in the CBP Regulations.
This bond is executed on ________________, 20____________.
SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED
IN THE PRESENCE OF:
(Name) (Address)
(Name) (Address)
(Principal Name) (Seal)
(Principal Address)
(Surety Name) (Seal)
Surety No. ________
(Surety Mailing Address)
Surety Agent Name
Surety Agent ID Number
[74 FR 68377, Dec. 24, 2009]
Pt. 114

# PART 114—CARNETS
Sec.
114.0
Scope.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
114.1
Definitions.
114.2
Customs Conventions and Agreements.
114.3
Carnets.

# Subpart B—Issuing and Guaranteeing Associations
114.11
Approval.
114.12
Termination of approval.

# Subpart C—Processing of Carnets
114.21
Acceptance.
114.22
Coverage of carnets.
114.23
Maximum period.
114.24
Additions.
114.25
Replacement of carnets.
114.26
Discharge, nonacceptance, or cancellation of carnets.

# Subpart D—Miscellaneous
114.31
Restrictions.
114.32
Samples for taking orders.
114.33
Action against carnet user.
114.34
Cancellation of erroneous charges.

# Authority:
19 U.S.C. 66, 1202 (General Note 3(i), Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States), 1623, 1624.

# Source:
T.D. 70-134, 35 FR 9261, June 13, 1970, unless otherwise noted.
§ 114.0
Scope.
This part is concerned with the use of international Customs documents known as carnets. It also contains provisions concerning the approval of associations to issue carnets in the United States covering merchandise to be exported and to guarantee carnets issued abroad covering merchandise to be imported. The carnet serves simultaneously as a Customs entry document and as a Customs bond.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 114.1
Definitions.
The following are general definitions for the purpose of part 114:
(a)
Commissioner.
“Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Customs.
(b)
Issuing association.
“Issuing association” means an association approved by the Commissioner for the issue of carnets in the Customs territory of the United States under a Customs Convention or bilateral Agreement to which the United States has acceded.
(c)
Guaranteeing association.
“Guaranteeing association” means an association approved by the Commissioner to guarantee the payment of obligations under carnets covering merchandise entering the Customs territory of the United States under a Customs Convention or bilateral Agreement to which the United States has acceded.
(d)
A.T.A. carnet.
“A.T.A. carnet” (Admission Temporaire—Temporary Admission) means the document reproduced as the Annex to the Customs Convention on the A.T.A. Carnet for the Temporary Admission of Goods (TIAS 6631).
(e) [Reserved]
(f)
TIR carnet.
“TIR carnet” (Transport International Routier) means the document reproduced as Annex 1 to the Customs Convention on the International Transport of Goods under Cover of TIR Carnets.
(g)
TECRO/AIT Carnet.
“TECRO/AIT carnet” means the document issued pursuant to the Bilateral Agreement between the Taipei Economic and Cultural Representative Office (TECRO) and the American Institute in Taiwan (AIT) to cover the temporary admission of goods.
[T.D. 70-134, 35 FR 9261, June 13, 1970, as amended by T.D. 71-70, 36 FR 4490, Mar. 6, 1971; T.D. 82-116, 47 FR 27262, June 24, 1982; T.D. 85-180, 50 FR 42517, Oct. 21, 1985; T.D. 98-10, 63 FR 4168, Jan. 28, 1998]
§ 114.2
Customs Conventions and Agreements.
The regulations in this part relate to carnets provided for in the following Customs Conventions and Agreements:
(a) Customs Convention on the A.T.A. Carnet for the Temporary Admission of Goods (hereinafter referred to as A.T.A. Convention).
(b) [Reserved]
(c) Customs Convention on the International Transport of Goods Under Cover of TIR Carnets, done at Geneva on November 14, 1975, as well as the 1959 TIR Convention, TIAS 6633.
(d) Agreement Between the Taipei Economic and Cultural Representative Office in the United States and the American Institute in Taiwan on TECRO/AIT Carnet for the Temporary Admission of Goods (hereinafter referred to as the Agreement).
[T.D. 70-134, 35 FR 9261, June 13, 1970, as amended by T.D. 82-116, 47 FR 27262, June 24, 1982; T.D. 85-180, 50 FR 42517, Oct. 21, 1985; T.D. 98-10, 63 FR 4168, Jan. 28, 1998]
§ 114.3
Carnets.
(a)
Use.
A carnet issued in conformity with the provisions of a Convention or Agreement identified in § 114.2 and with the regulations in this part shall serve as an entry document within the scope contemplated by the applicable Convention or Agreement and as a bond for the performance of acts in compliance with the provisions of such Convention or Agreement and the Customs statutes and regulations which are involved. Such carnet shall:
(1) Show the period for which it is valid,
(2) Be fully completed in accordance with the provisions of the Convention or Agreement which provides for its issuance, and
(3) Include an English translation whenever the goods covered by a carnet are described in another language.
(b)
Area of validity.
Carnets are valid in the customs territory of the United States which includes only the States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico.
[T.D. 71-70, 36 FR 4490, Mar. 6, 1971, as amended by T.D. 98-10, 63 FR 4168, Jan. 28, 1998]

# Subpart B—Issuing and Guaranteeing Associations
§ 114.11
Approval.
(a)
Documents to be furnished.
Before an association may be approved to serve as issuing association or guaranteeing association in the United States with respect to carnets authorized under a Customs Convention or Agreement to which the United States has acceded, such association shall furnish the Commissioner a written undertaking, in a form satisfactory to the Commissioner, to perform the functions and fulfill the obligations specified in the Convention or Agreement under which carnets are to be issued or guaranteed. Evidence of affiliation with an appropriate international organization shall also be required if affiliation with such an organization is required by the Convention or Agreement under which carnets are to be issued or guaranteed.
(b)
Publication of notice of approval.
Notice of the approval of an issuing association or a guaranteeing association with respect to a Customs Convention or Agreement to which the United States has acceded will be published in the
Federal Register
by the Commissioner.
[T.D. 70-134, 35 FR 9261, June 13, 1970, as amended by T.D. 71-70, 36 FR 4490, Mar. 6, 1971; T.D. 98-10, 63 FR 4168, Jan. 28, 1998]
§ 114.12
Termination of approval.
(a)
For cause.
The Commissioner may suspend or revoke the approval previously given to any issuing association or guaranteeing association for failure or refusal to comply with the duties, obligations, or requirements set forth in its written undertaking on which the approval was based; in the applicable Customs Convention; or in the customs regulations; or upon termination of the affiliation with an appropriate international organization required by § 114.11(a). Before such suspension or revocation, the Commissioner shall give the association a reasonable opportunity to refute the alleged failure of compliance.
(b)
Withdrawal.
To be relieved of future obligations, an approved guaranteeing association must notify the Commissioner, in writing, not less than 6 months in advance of a specified termination date that it will not guarantee the payment of obligations under carnets accepted by district directors of Customs after the specified date.
The receipt of such notice by the Commissioner will in no way affect the responsibility of the guaranteeing association for payment of claims on carnets accepted by district directors before the designated termination date.
(c)
Notice.
Notice of the suspension or revocation of the approval of an issuing association or a guaranteeing association, or of the withdrawal of an approved guaranteeing association, with respect to a Customs Convention to which the United States has acceded will be published in the
Federal Register
by the Commissioner.
[T.D. 70-134, 35 FR 9261, June 13, 1970, as amended by T.D. 71-70, 36 FR 4490, Mar. 6, 1971]

# Subpart C—Processing of Carnets
§ 114.21
Acceptance.
A carnet executed in accordance with § 114.3 shall be accepted provided that when the carnet is presented an association for the guaranteeing of such carnets has been approved in accordance with § 114.11 and such approval has not been terminated as provided for in § 114.12.
§ 114.22
Coverage of carnets.
(a)
A.T.A. carnet.
The A.T.A. carnet is acceptable for goods to be temporarily entered, or temporarily entered and transported, under:
(1) The Customs Convention on the Temporary Importation of Professional Equipment, or
(2) The International Convention to Facilitate the Importation of Commercial Samples and Advertising Material, which includes:
(i) Commercial samples, or
(ii) Motion picture advertising films not exceeding 16 mm., consisting essentially of photographs (with or without sound track) showing the nature or operation of products or equipment whose qualities cannot be adequately demonstrated by samples or catalogs. There shall be presented with each carnet covering motion picture advertising films a statement showing how each of the following requirements is met. The films must:
(A) Relate to products or equipment offered for sale or for hire by a person established in the territory of another contracting party;
(B) Be of a kind suitable for exhibition to the public; and
(C) Be imported in a packet which contains not more than one copy of each film and which does not form part of a larger consignment of films.
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
TIR carnet
—(1)
Use.
The TIR carnet may be accepted at any port of entry for the transport of merchandise in road vehicles or in containers, even if the containers, without being loaded on road vehicles, are carried by other means of transport for part of the journey between the customs offices of departure and destination. The TIR carnet may also be accepted for the transport of “heavy or bulky goods” as defined in Article 1 of the TIR Convention. The TIR carnet covers the transportation of merchandise for customs purposes only. Road vehicles transporting merchandise under cover of a TIR carnet must also comply with all other applicable requirements of Federal and State agencies concerned with the regulations of such vehicles and their personnel.
(2)
Taken on charge.
A TIR carnet is “taken on charge” by Customs when it is accepted as a transportation entry and when the shipment covered thereby is receipted for by the bonded carrier (see §§ 18.1, 18.2, and 18.10(a) of this chapter). Until the carnet is “taken on charge,” the guaranteeing association shall have no liability to the United States under the carnet.
(d)
TECRO/AIT carnet
—(1)
Use.
The TECRO/AIT carnet is acceptable for the following two categories of goods to be temporarily imported, unless importation is prohibited under the laws and regulations of the United States:
(i) Professional equipment; and
(ii) Commercial samples and advertising material imported for the purpose of being shown or demonstrated with a view to soliciting orders.
(2)
Issue and use.
(i) Issuing associations shall indicate on the cover of the TECRO/AIT carnet the customs territory in which it is valid and the name and address of the guaranteeing association.
(ii) The period fixed for re-exportation of goods imported under cover of
a TECRO/AIT carnet shall not in any case exceed the period of validity of that carnet.
(e)
Excess liability.
When the total of duties and taxes on any shipment covered by a carnet exceeds the amount for which the guaranteeing association is liable, the excess constitutes a charge against the carrier's bond.
[T.D. 70-134, 35 FR 9261, June 13, 1970, as amended by T.D. 71-70, 36 FR 4490, Mar. 6, 1971; T.D. 82-116, 47 FR 27262, June 24, 1982; T.D. 98-10, 63 FR 4168, Jan. 28, 1998]
§ 114.23
Maximum period.
(a)
A.T.A. carnet.
No A.T.A. carnet with a period of validity exceeding 1 year from date of issue shall be accepted. This period of validity cannot be extended.
(b)
TIR carnet.
A TIR carnet may be accepted without limitation as to time provided it is initially “taken on charge by a customs administration (United States or foreign) within the period of validity shown on its front cover.”
(c)
TECRO/AIT carnet.
A TECRO/AIT carnet shall not be issued with a period of validity exceeding one year from the date of issue. This period of validity cannot be extended and must be shown on the front cover of the carnet.
[T.D. 71-70, 36 FR 4491, Mar. 6, 1971, as amended by T.D. 82-116, 47 FR 27262, June 24, 1982; T.D. 85-180, 50 FR 42517, Oct. 21, 1985; T.D. 98-10, 63 FR 4168, Jan. 28, 1998]
§ 114.24
Additions.
When an A.T.A. or TECRO/AIT carnet has been issued, no extra item shall be added to the list of goods enumerated on the reverse of the cover of the carnet or on any continuation sheet annexed thereto.
[T.D. 70-134, 35 FR 9261, June 13, 1970, as amended by T.D. 82-116, 47 FR 27262, June 24, 1982; T.D. 98-10, 63 FR 4168, Jan. 28, 1998]
§ 114.25
Replacement of carnets.
In the case of destruction, loss, or theft of an A.T.A. or TECRO/AIT carnet while the goods which it covers are in the Customs territory of the United States, the director of the port where such goods were imported may, upon request of the association which issued the carnet abroad, accept a replacement document, the validity of which expires on the same date as that of the carnet which it replaces, provided the port director determines that the description of merchandise in the replacement document fully corresponds to the description set forth in the importation voucher from the carnet to be replaced.
[T.D. 70-134, 35 FR 9261, June 13, 1970, as amended by T.D. 82-116, 47 FR 27262, June 24, 1982; T.D. 98-10, 63 FR 4168, Jan. 28, 1998]
§ 114.26
Discharge, nonacceptance, or cancellation of carnets.
(a)
Unconditional discharge.
An A.T.A. or TECRO/AIT carnet shall be discharged unconditionally by the port director when he is satisfied that all merchandise covered thereby is reexported or destroyed. A TIR carnet shall be discharged unconditionally when all merchandise covered thereby has been properly entered, placed in general order, or exported under customs supervision. In all other cases, any discrepancy shall be noted on the appropriate counterfoil, and action shall be taken in accordance with § 10.39 or § 18.6 of this chapter.
(b)
Effect of discharge.
When a port director has discharged a carnet unconditionally by completion of the appropriate counterfoil, no claim may be brought against the guaranteeing association for payment under the carnet unless it can be established that the discharge was obtained improperly or fraudulently or, in the case of an A.T.A. or TECRO/AIT carnet, that there has been a breach of the conditions of temporary importation.
(c)
Nonacceptance or cancellation of TIR carnets.
If a TIR carnet presented to Customs is not accepted, it shall be stamped “Not Taken on Charge” (see § 114.22(c)(2)). If merchandise not required to be transported in bond moving under cover of a TIR carnet is not exported, the carnet shall be stamped “Cancelled.”
[T.D. 71-70, 36 FR 4491, Mar. 6, 1971, as amended by T.D. 82-116, 47 FR 27262, June 24, 1982; T.D. 98-10, 63 FR 4168, Jan. 28, 1998]

# Subpart D—Miscellaneous
§ 114.31
Restrictions.
(a)
Mail importations.
Carnets shall not be accepted for importations by mail.
(b)
Temporary importations.
Merchandise not entitled to temporary importation under bond shall not be imported under cover of an A.T.A. or TECRO/AIT carnet.
(c)
Transportation in bond.
Except as provided in § 18.43 of this chapter, merchandise not entitled to transportation in bond shall not be transported under cover of a TIR carnet.
[T.D. 71-70, 36 FR 4491, Mar. 6, 1971, as amended by T.D. 85-180, 50 FR 42517, Oct. 21, 1985; T.D. 98-10, 63 FR 4168, Jan. 28, 1998]
§ 114.32
Samples for taking orders.
A.T.A. or TECRO/AIT carnets may be accepted for unaccompanied samples and samples imported by a natural person resident in the Customs territory of the United States, as well as for samples imported by a natural person resident in the territory of another contracting party to the A.T.A. Convention or TECRO/AIT Agreement.
[T.D. 70-134, 35 FR 9261, June 13, 1970, as amended by T.D. 82-116, 47 FR 27262, June 24, 1982; T.D. 98-10, 63 FR 4168, Jan. 28, 1998]
§ 114.33
Action against carnet user.
In the event of fraud, violation, or abuse of the privileges of a Convention or Agreement, action may be taken against the users of carnets for applicable duties and charges or liquidated damages, as the case may be. Penalties to which such persons have thereby rendered themselves liable may also be imposed.
[T.D. 70-134, 35 FR 9261, June 13, 1970, as amended by T.D. 98-10, 63 FR 4168, Jan. 28, 1998]
§ 114.34
Cancellation of erroneous charges.
(a)
TIR carnet.
When it is determined that liquidated damages assessed or paid for any shortage, irregular delivery, or nondelivery of merchandise covered by a TIR carnet did not in fact accrue, the liquidated damages shall be cancelled by the port director and, if paid, refunded, as provided by § 18.8 of this chapter.
(b)
A.T.A. or TECRO/AIT carnet.
When it is determined that liquidated damages assessed or paid for failure to properly reexport or destroy merchandise temporarily imported under cover of an A.T.A. or TECRO/AIT carnet did not in fact accrue, the liquidated damages shall be cancelled by the port director and, if paid, refunded as provided by § 10.39 of this chapter.
(c)
Determination dependent upon a construction of law.
When the determination of whether or not the charge was erroneously made depends upon a construction of law, the charge shall not be cancelled without the approval of the Commissioner of Customs, unless there is in force a ruling by the Commissioner of Customs decisive of the issue.
[T.D. 74-227, 39 FR 32023, Sept. 4, 1974, as amended by T.D. 82-116, 47 FR 27262, June 24, 1982; T.D. 98-10, 63 FR 4168, Jan. 28, 1998; T.D. 00-57, 65 FR 53575, Sept. 5, 2000]
Pt. 115

# PART 115—CARGO CONTAINER AND ROAD VEHICLE CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO INTERNATIONAL CUSTOMS CONVENTIONS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
115.1
Purpose.
115.2
Application.
115.3
Definitions.
115.4
Conflicting provisions.

# Subpart B—Administration
115.6
Designated Certifying Authorities.
115.7
Designation of additional Certifying Authorities.
115.8
Certifying Authorities responsibilities—road vehicles.
115.9
Certifying Authorities responsibilities—containers.
115.10
Certificate of approval.
115.11
Establishment of fees.
115.12
Records maintained by Certifying Authority.
115.13
Records to be furnished Customs.
115.14
Meeting on program.
115.15
Reports by road vehicle or container manufacturer.
115.16
Notification of Certifying Authority by manufacturer.
115.17
Appeal to Commissioner of Customs.
115.18
Decision of Commissioner of Customs final.

# Subpart C—Procedures for Approval of Containers by Design Type
115.25
General.
115.26
Eligibility.
115.27
Where to apply.
115.28
Application for approval.
115.29
Plan review.
115.30
Technical requirements for containers by design type.
115.31
Examination, inspection, and testing.
115.32
Approval plates.
115.33
Termination of approval.

# Subpart D—Procedures for Approval of Containers After Manufacture
115.37
General.
115.38
Application.
115.39
Eligibility.
115.40
Technical requirements for containers.
115.41
Certificate of approval for containers approved after manufacture.
115.42
Approval plates.
115.43
Termination of approval.

# Subpart E—Procedures for Approval of Individual Road Vehicles
115.48
General.
115.49
Application.
115.50
Eligibility.
115.51
Technical requirements.
115.52
Approval.
115.53
Certificate of approval.
115.54
Renewal of certificate.
115.55
Termination of approval.

# Subpart F—Procedures for Approval of Road Vehicles by Design Type
115.60
General.
115.61
Eligibility.
115.62
Where to apply.
115.63
Application for approval.
115.64
Plan review.
115.65
Technical requirements for road vehicles by design type.
115.66
Examination, inspection, and testing.
115.67
Approval certificate.
115.68
Termination of approval.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 19 U.S.C. 66, 1624; E.O. 12445 of October 17, 1983.

# Source:
T.D. 86-92, 51 FR 16161, May 1, 1986, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 115.1
Purpose.
This chapter establishes procedures for certifying containers and road vehicles in conformance with the Customs Convention on Containers (1956) (TIAS 6634), the Customs Convention on the International Transport of Goods Under Cover of TIR Carnets (1959) (TIAS 6633), the Customs Convention on the International Transport of Goods Under Cover of TIR Carnets, November 14, 1975 (TIAS), and the Customs Convention on Containers, 1972 (TIAS), by applying the procedures and technical conditions set forth in the annexes to these conventions.
§ 115.2
Application.
(a) Certification of containers and road vehicles for international transport under Customs seal is voluntary. This chapter does not require certification of containers and road vehicles.
(b) The Customs Convention on the International Transport of Goods Under Cover of TIR Carnets (TIR Convention), January 15, 1959 (20 UST 184, TIAS 6633), requires that the approval of road vehicles be made by competent authorities of the country in which the owner or carrier is a resident or is established, and that containers should be either similarly approved, or approved by the competent authority of the country where it is first used for transport under Customs seal. The Customs Convention on Containers, May 18, 1956 (20 UST 301, TIAS 6634), requires that the approval of containers be made by competent authorities of the country in which the owner is a resident or is established or by those of the country where the container is used for the first time for transport under Customs seal. The TIR Convention, 1975, generally provides that a road vehicle, for which approval at a stage after manufacture is desired, shall be approved by the competent authority where the vehicle owner or operator is established or located, or where the vehicle is registered. Such approval under the TIR Convention, 1975, or, for containers, the Customs Convention on Containers, 1972, may be accomplished by the competent authority of the country in which the owner or operator is able to produce the conveyance. The 1975 TIR Convention and the Customs Convention on Containers, 1972, also provide that the Certifying
Authority of the country of manufacture, if that country is a contracting party to the Convention, may approve a series of road vehicles or containers presented for design type approval. The procedures for applying for certification are contained in §§ 115.28, 115.38, 115.49, and 115.63 of this part.
§ 115.3
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part:
(a)
Certifying Authority.
“Certifying Authority” means a nonprofit firm or association, incorporated or established in the U.S., which the Commissioner finds competent to carry out the functions of this part and which he designates to certify containers and road vehicles for international transport under Customs seal.
(b)
Commissioner.
“Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Customs.
(c)
Container.
“Container” means an article of transport equipment (lift van, portable tank, or other similar structure).
(1) Fully or partially enclosed to constitute a compartment intended for containing goods;
(2) Of a permanent character and strong enough to be suitable for repeated use;
(3) Specifically designed to facilitate the carriage of goods by one or more modes of transport, without intermediate reloading;
(4) Designed for ready handling, particularly its transfer from one mode of transport to another;
(5) Designed to be easily filled and emptied; and
(6) Having an internal volume of 1 cubic meter (35.3 cubic feet) or more.
(d)
Manufacturer.
“Manufacturer” means an organization or person constructing containers or road vehicles for certification in accordance with this chapter.
(e)
Prototype.
“Prototype” means a sample unit of a series of identical containers or road vehicles all built, so far as practical, under the same conditions.
(f)
Road vehicle.
“Road Vehicle”, as defined in Chapter 1, Article 1 of the Customs Convention on the International Transport of Goods Under Cover of TIR Carnets (TIR Convention), November 14, 1975 (TIAS), means not only any power-driven road vehicle but also any trailer or semi-trailer designed to be coupled to it.
(g)
Customs and TIR/Container Plan.
“Customs and TIR/Container Plan” means the designer's drawing of a vehicle (for TIR purposes) or container (for TIR and Container Convention purposes) that illustrates each requirement in § 115.30, § 115.40, § 115.51, or § 15.65, as appropriate to this part.
(h) The definitions in the subject Conventions shall be considered applicable to terms not specifically defined above.
§ 115.4
Conflicting provisions.
The provisions of the most recent TIR/Container Convention shall apply in the event of conflict between it and an earlier TIR/Container Convention covered by these regulations.

# Subpart B—Administration
§ 115.6
Designated Certifying Authorities.
(a)
Certifying Authorities for containers and road vehicles.
The Commissioner has designated the following Certifying Authorities for containers and road vehicles as defined in this part:
(1) The American Bureau of Shipping, ABS Plaza, 16855 Northchase Drive, Houston, Texas 77060-6008;
(2) International Cargo Gear Bureau, Inc., 321 West 44th Street, New York, New York 10036;
(3) The National Cargo Bureau, Inc., 17 Battery Place, Suite 1232, New York, New York 10004-1110.
(b)
Certifying Authority for containers.
The Commissioner has designated Lloyd's Register North America, Inc., 1401 Enclave Parkway, Suite 200, Houston, Texas 77077, as a Certifying Authority only for containers as defined in this part.
[CBP Dec. 09-27, 74 FR 36926, July 27, 2009]
§ 115.7
Designation of additional Certifying Authorities.
(a) The Commissioner may designate as a Certifying Authority any nonprofit firm or association that he finds competent to carry out the functions of §§ 115.8 through 115.14 of this subpart.
(b) Any designation as Certifying Authority may be terminated by the Commissioner.
§ 115.8
Certifying Authorities responsibilities—road vehicles.
(a)
General.
Road vehicles may be approved individually or by design type.
(b)
Individual approval.
The Certifying Authority to whom a road vehicle is submitted for approval shall inspect such road vehicle produced in accordance with the general rules contained in Annex 3 of the TIR Convention, 1975.
(c)
Design type approval.
The Certifying Authority to whom a road vehicle is submitted for design type approval shall examine the drawings and detailed design specifications submitted with the application for approval. The Certifying Authority shall advise the applicant of any changes that must be made to the proposed design type in order that approval may be granted. The Certifying Authority shall examine one or more vehicles to confirm that such vehicles comply with the technical conditions contained in Annex 2 of the TIR Convention, 1975. The Certifying Authority shall notify the applicant of its decision to grant design type approval, and it shall issue an approval certificate complying with Annexes 3 and 4 of the TIR Convention, 1975.
(d)
Supplementary examinations.
If a road vehicle approved by design type is the subject of an extended production run under one certificate of approval, the Certifying Authority shall confirm by examination of one or more road vehicles during the manufacturing process, or by other means, that such vehicles continue to meet the approved drawings and detailed design specifications and the technical requirements of Annex 2 of the TIR Convention, 1975.
For the purposes of this section, an extended production run shall be considered a continuous run of many units over long periods of time, as well as a new run following the completion of a previous run.
§ 115.9
Certifying Authorities responsibilities—containers.
(a)
General.
Containers may be approved for transport under seal by design type at the manufacturing stage or, otherwise, at a stage subsequent to manufacture.
(b)
Design type approval.
The Certifying Authority to whom a container is submitted for design type approval shall examine the drawings and detailed design specifications submitted with the application for approval. The Certifying Authority shall advise the applicant of any changes that must be made to the proposed design type so that approval may be granted. The Certifying Authority shall examine one or more containers to confirm that such containers comply with the technical requirements of part 1, Annex 7, TIR Convention, 1975, and Annex 4 of the Customs Convention on Containers, 1972. The Certifying Authority shall issue a certificate authorizing the applicant to affix an approval plate, as described in appendix 1 to part II, Annex 7 of the TIR Convention, 1975, and Annex 5 of the Customs Convention on Containers, 1972, for all containers manufactured in conformity with the specifications of the type of container approved. This certificate shall comply with the model certificate in appendix 2, part II, Annex 7 of the TIR Convention, 1975, and appendix 2 of Annex 5 of the Customs Convention on Containers, 1972.
(c)
After manufacture.
The Certifying Authority to whom containers are submitted for approval after manufacture, shall examine as many containers as necessary to ascertain that they comply with the technical conditions prescribed in part 1, Annex 7, TIR Convention, 1975, and Annex 5 of the Customs Convention on Containers, 1972. The Certifying Authority shall issue a certificate of approval authorizing the applicant to affix an approval plate to the specific number or series of containers being approved. The certificate shall comply with the model certificate of approval in appendix 3, Part II, Annex 7, TIR Convention, 1975, and appendix 3, Annex 5, Customs Convention on Containers, 1972.
(d)
Supplementary examinations.
If a container approved by design type is the subject of an extended production run or several production runs under
one certificate of approval, the Certifying Authority shall confirm by examination of one or more containers during the manufacturing process, or by other means, that such containers continue to meet the approved drawings and detailed design specifications and the technical requirements of Annex 7 of the TIR Convention, 1975, and Annex 4 of the Customs Convention on Containers, 1972. For the purposes of this section, an extended production run shall be considered as a continuous run of many units over long periods of time, as well as a new run following completion of a previous run.
§ 115.10
Certificate of approval.
A Certifying Authority shall issue a certificate of approval by design type for a specified number or unlimited series of containers that are approved in accordance with the procedures contained in §§ 115.29, 115.31, 115.38, and 115.41, and road vehicles that are approved in accordance with the procedures contained in §§ 115.49, 115.52, 115.63, and 115.66 of this part.
(a)
Road vehicles.
A Certifying Authority shall issue a certificate of approval conforming to the model in Annex 4 of the 1975 TIR Convention for vehicles submitted for individual or design type approval, if satisfied that the vehicles comply with the technical conditions prescribed in Annex 2 of the TIR Convention, 1975.
(b)
Containers
—(1)
Approval after manufacture.
A Certifying Authority shall issue a certificate of approval conforming to the model in appendix 3, Part II to Annex 7 of the TIR Convention, 1975, and appendix 3 to Annex 5 of the Customs Convention on Containers, 1972, for containers approved at a stage after manufacture, when it has been ascertained that the containers comply with the technical conditions prescribed in Annex 7 of the TIR Convention, 1975, and Annex 4 of the Customs Convention on Containers, 1972. The certificate shall be valid for the number of containers approved.
(2)
Design type approved.
A Certifying Authority shall issue a single certificate of approval conforming to the model in appendix 2, Part II to Annex 7 of the TIR Convention, 1975, and appendix 2 to Annex 5 of the Customs Convention on Containers, 1972, for containers approved by design type when it has been ascertained that the container type complies with the technical conditions prescribed in Annex 7 of the 1975 TIR Convention, and Annex 4 of the Customs Convention on Containers, 1972. The certificate shall be valid for all containers manufactured in conformity with the specifications of the type approved.
(c)
Provisions common to both approval procedures.
The certificate of approval issued pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be valid for either the specific number of containers approved, or for an unlimited series of containers of the approved type.
§ 115.11
Establishment of fees.
(a) Each Certifying Authority shall establish and file with the Commissioner a schedule of fees for the performance of the certification procedures under this chapter. The fees shall be based on the costs (including transportation expense) actually incurred by the Certifying Authority. The fees are subject to approval by the Commissioner before their use by the Certifying Authority.
(b) Each Certifying Authority shall make available a schedule of its fees approved by the Commissioner. In addition, the schedules of approved fees for all the Certifying Authorities are available from the Headquarters, U.S. Customs Service, Office of Field Operations, 1300 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20229.
[T.D. 86-92, 51 FR 16161, May 1, 1986, as amended by T.D. 99-27, 64 FR 13675, Mar. 22, 1999]
§ 115.12
Records maintained by Certifying Authority.
(a) Each Certifying Authority shall maintain—
(1) A copy of each individual certificate of approval issued, together with a copy of the plans and the application to which the approval refers, along with any information submitted by the manufacturer and/or owner or operator for the certification of a container or a road vehicle.
(2) A record of each serial number assigned and affixed by the manufacturer to the road vehicles and containers
manufactured under a design type approval, and containers approved at a stage after manufacture.
(b) The Commissioner may examine the Certifying Authority's files required by paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 115.13
Records to be furnished Customs.
Each Certifying Authority shall furnish the Headquarters, U.S. Customs Service, Office of Field Operations, 1300 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20229, unless waived by Customs;
(a) A copy of each issued certificate of approval for containers and road vehicles and a copy of the plans and application to which the approval refers;
(b) A copy of each issued individual approval for a container or road vehicle.
[T.D. 86-92, 51 FR 16161, May 1, 1986, as amended by T.D. 99-27, 64 FR 13675, Mar. 22, 1999]
§ 115.14
Meeting on program.
If determined necessary by Customs, each Certifying Authority's representative for certification functions shall meet, after notice, with the Commissioner to review their administration of the certification program.
§ 115.15
Reports by road vehicle or container manufacturer.
Each manufacturer shall forward to the appropriate Certifying Authority, quarterly or when otherwise requested by that Authority:
(a) The registration number or other identifying information on road vehicles, or serial numbers assigned to containers manufactured under a certificate of approval by design type; and
(b) An attestation that each road vehicle or container to which a serial number was assigned was manufactured in full compliance with the certificate of approval by design type.
§ 115.16
Notification of Certifying Authority by manufacturer.
In order that the Certifying Authority can schedule an appropriate inspection, a manufacturer shall give notification to that Authority before each production run of road vehicles or containers to be built pursuant either to plans approved by the Certifying Authority, or revised plans (approved or unapproved).
§ 115.17
Appeal to Commissioner of Customs.
(a) Any manufacturer, carrier, or owner may, within 30 days after he has been notified by a Certifying Authority of an adverse determination, including any review provided, appeal that determination to the Commissioner.
(b) Any determination which is appealed remains in effect pending a decision by the Commissioner.
§ 115.18
Decision of Commissioner of Customs final.
The decision of the Commissioner on any matter appealed to him is final.

# Subpart C—Procedures for Approval of Containers by Design Type
§ 115.25
General.
The Certifying Authority shall, at the request of a manufacturer, evaluate containers for approval by design type during the manufacturing stage.
§ 115.26
Eligibility.
Any manufacturer of containers to be manufactured in a type series from standard design and specifications so that each container has identical characteristics, may apply for approval by design type.
§ 115.27
Where to apply.
A manufacturer may apply for approval of a container by design type to a Certifying Authority of the country in which the container is manufactured if such country is a contracting party to the TIR Convention, 1975, or the Customs Convention on Containers, 1972.
§ 115.28
Application for approval.
Each application by a manufacturer or an owner for certification of a container by design type must include:
(a) Three copies, each no larger than 3 feet by 4 feet, of the customs and TIR/Container plan;
(b) Customs and TIR/Container plan number;
(c) Three copies of the specifications which include the following information:
(1) The name and address of the manufacturer and the owner; and
(2) A description of the container including the—
(i) Type of construction;
(ii) Dimensions;
(iii) Material of construction;
(iv) Coating system used;
(v) Identification marks and numbers; and
(vi) Tare weight;
(d) The location and date for inspection; and
(e) A statement signed by the manufacturer that:
(1) A container of the design type concerned is available for inspection and approval by the Certifying Authority before, during, and after the production run;
(2) Notification will be given to the Certifying Authority of each change in the design before adoption; and
(3) Each container will be marked with:
(i) The metal plate required in § 115.32;
(ii) The identification number or letter of the design type assigned by the manufacturer; and
(iii) The serial number of the container assigned by the manufacturer.
§ 115.29
Plan review.
(a) A manufacturer or owner who wants containers to be approved by design type must submit the plans and specifications for the container to the Certifying Authority.
(b) The Certifying Authority examining the plans and specifications submitted in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section shall:
(1) Approve the plans and specifications in accordance with the requirements of § 115.30 and arrange to inspect a container in accordance with § 115.31; or
(2) Advise the applicant of any necessary changes to be made for compliance with the requirements of § 115.30.
(c) If changes in the design of the container are made during production but after approval of the plans and specifications by the Certifying Authority and furnish it with “as-built” drawings of the container so that the plans can be reviewed and one or more containers inspected during the production stage to confirm that they continue to comply with the requirements of § 115.30.
§ 115.30
Technical requirements for containers by design type.
The plans and specifications of a container submitted in accordance with the requirements contained in § 115.29, and the one or more containers inspected in accordance with the requirements of § 115.31, must comply with the requirements of Annex 7 of the Customs Convention on the International Transport of Goods Under Cover of TIR Carnets (TIR Convention), November 14, 1975 (TIAS), and Annex 4 of the Customs Convention on Containers (Container Convention), December 2, 1972. Copies of Annex 7 and Annex 4 may be obtained from the Headquarters, U.S. Customs Service, Office of Field Operations, 1300 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20229.
[T.D. 86-92, 51 FR 16161, May 1, 1986, as amended by T.D. 99-27, 64 FR 13675, Mar. 22, 1999]
§ 115.31
Examination, inspection, and testing.
(a) Before the issuance of a certificate of approval by design type, the Certifying Authority shall:
(1) Make a physical examination of one or more containers of the production series concerned;
(2) Assure itself as to the adequacy of the manufacturer's system to control quality of materials used, manufacturing methods, and finished containers; and
(3) Require the manufacturer to make available to the Certifying Authority records of material, including affidavits furnished by suppliers.
(b) The Certifying Authority shall conduct such examinations, inspections, and tests of the production run containers as it deems necessary.
§ 115.32
Approval plates.
The manufacturer shall affix, in a clearly visible place on or near one of the doors or other main openings of each container manufactured to the approved design, a metal approval plate
measuring at least 20 by 10 centimeters (7.8 by 3.9 inches). The following shall be embossed on or stamped into the surface of the approval plate:
(a) “Approved for transport under Customs seal.”
(b) “USA/(number of the certificate of approval)/(last two digits of year of approval).” (e.g. “USA/1600/84” means “United States of America certificate of approval number 1600, issued in 1984).” A two digit alpha suffix may be added to the certificate of approval number to identify the Certifying Authority, e.g., USA/1600-AB/85, USA/1600-IB/85.
(c) Identification of the type of container and of the number of the container in the type series.
(d) The serial number assigned to the container by the manufacturer (manufacturer's number).
§ 115.33
Termination of approval.
Any container, the essential features of which are changed, shall no longer be covered by the design type approval. Such a container may be made available to a Certifying Authority for inspection and individual approval in accordance with subpart D of the part. However, repairs in kind do not constitute a change of the essential features.

# Subpart D—Procedures for Approval of Containers After Manufacture
§ 115.37
General.
This subpart provides for the approval and certification of containers after manufacture, and for those altered so as to void their design type approval.
§ 115.38
Application.
A written request for approval of a container after manufacture may be made by the owner or operator to a Certifying Authority and must include the following:
(a) Three copies, each no longer than 3 feet by 4 feet, of the Customs and TIR/Container plan;
(b) Customs and TIR/Container plan number;
(c) Three copies of the specifications which include the following information:
(1) Type of container;
(2) Name and business address of applicant;
(3) Identification marks and numbers;
(4) Tare weight;
(5) Nominal overall dimensions in centimeters;
(6) Type of construction and essential particulars of structure (nature of materials, coating system used, parts which are reinforced, whether bolts are riveted or welded, and similar matters); and
(7) Proposed location and date for inspection of the container.
§ 115.39
Eligibility.
The owner or operator may submit containers to be approved after the manufacturing stage to:
(a) The Certifying Authority of the country of manufacture if such country is a contracting party to the Convention.
(b) The Certifying Authority of the country where the owner or operator is resident or established, when such Certifying Authority has representatives located in the country of manufacture, which is a noncontracting party to the Convention.
(c) The Certifying Authority of the country where a container is used for the first time for transport of merchandise under Customs seal or where it is otherwise physically located.
§ 115.40
Technical requirements for containers.
A container that is submitted for inspection for approval after manufacture, must comply with the requirements of Annex 7 of the Customs Convention on the International Transport of Goods Under Cover of TIR Carnets (TIR Convention), November 14, 1975 (TIAS) and Annex 4 of the Customs Convention on Containers (Container Convention), December 2, 1972. Copies of Annex 7 and Annex 4 may be obtained from the Headquarters, U.S.
Customs Service, Office of Field Operations, 1300 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20229.
[T.D. 86-92, 51 FR 16161, May 1, 1986, as amended by T.D. 99-27, 64 FR 13675, Mar. 22, 1999]
§ 115.41
Certificate of approval for containers approved after manufacture.
The Certifying Authority shall issue an individual certificate of approval for each container that meets the requirements in § 115.40.
§ 115.42
Approval plates.
(a) The owner or operator applicant shall, upon receipt of a certificate of approval from the Certifying Authority, affix an approval plate in the manner specified for containers approved by design type (see § 115.32).
(b) Although an entry is not required in the space provided for type identifiers on an approval plate for containers approved after manufacture, identification number and letters indicating that a series of containers comply with the same specifications may be placed in such space. This may be used to assist in the identification of a series of containers in which a common defect may be discovered subsequent to certification. In such case the approval number on the plate shall be altered by an addition to the second or third element of such number. The specific method of altering the approval number may be established by each Certifying Authority, for containers approved by it, and communicated to the U.S. Customs Service.
(c) Two possible methods of accomplishing this are:
(1) Placing an “X” in front of the numeric portion of the middle element of the approval number, e.g., USA/X123-IB/85.
(2) Placing a suffix at the end of the approval number, e.g, USA/123-AB/85-01.
§ 115.43
Termination of approval.
Approval of a container terminates upon a change in the container by a major repair or alteration of any of the essential features required in § 115.40. Repairs by replacement in kind do not constitute a change of the essential features.

# Subpart E—Procedures for Approval of Individual Road Vehicles
§ 115.48
General.
This subpart provides for the approval and certification of individual road vehicles that comply with the technical requirements in § 115.51.
§ 115.49
Application.
A written request for approval of an individual road vehicle may be made by the owner, or carrier to a Certifying Authority and must include:
(a) Three copies, each no larger than 3 feet by 4 feet, of the Customs and TIR plan;
(b) Customs and TIR plan number;
(c) Three copies of the specifications which include the following information:
(1) Type of vehicle;
(2) Name and business address of owner or operator;
(3) Name of the manufacturer;
(4) Chassis number;
(5) Engine number (if applicable);
(6) Registration number;
(7) Particulars of construction;
(8) Any photos or diagrams required by the Certifying Authority to facilitate approval; and
(9) A proposed place and date for inspection of the road vehicle.
§ 115.50
Eligibility.
A road vehicle may be submitted for inspection by its owner or operator to a Certifying Authority of the country in which the owner or operator is a resident or is established, or where the vehicle is registered.
§ 115.51
Technical requirements.
A road vehicle that is submitted for inspection for individual approval must comply with the requirements of Annex 2 of the Customs Convention on the International Transport of Goods Under Cover of TIR Carnets (TIR Convention), November 14, 1975, (TIAS). Copies of Annex 2 may be obtained from the Headquarters, U.S. Customs Service, Office of Field Operations, 1300
Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20229.
[T.D. 86-92, 51 FR 16161, May 1, 1986, as amended by T.D. 99-27, 64 FR 13675, Mar. 22, 1999]
§ 115.52
Approval.
The Certifying Authority shall issue a certificate of approval, valid for 2 years, to each road vehicle that complies with the applicable requirements in § 115.51.
§ 115.53
Certificate of approval.
A certificate of approval must be kept on the vehicle as evidence of approval.
§ 115.54
Renewal of certificate.
A certificate of approval may be renewed if the Certifying Authority determines by inspection every 2 years that the vehicle continues to comply with the applicable requirements in § 115.51.
§ 115.55
Termination of approval.
Approval of a road vehicle terminates:
(a) Upon expiration of the certificate of approval; or
(b) Upon a change in the road vehicle by a major repair or alteration of any of the essential features required in § 115.51. Repairs by replacement in kind do not constitute a change of the essential features.

# Subpart F—Procedures for Approval of Road Vehicles by Design Type
§ 115.60
General.
This subpart provides for the approval and certification of road vehicles manufactured by design type.
§ 115.61
Eligibility.
Any manufacturer of road vehicles which are being manufactured in a type series from a standard design and specifications, so that each road vehicle has identical characteristics, may apply for an approval by design type.
§ 115.62
Where to apply.
A manufacturer may apply for approval of a road vehicle by design type to a Certifying Authority of the country in which the road vehicle is manufactured, if such country is a contracting party to the TIR Convention, 1975.
§ 115.63
Application for approval.
Each application by a manufacturer for certification of a road vehicle by design type must include:
(a) Three copies, each no larger than 3 feet by 4 feet, of the Customs and TIR plan;
(b) Customs and TIR plan number;
(c) Three copies of the specifications which include the following information:
(1) The name and address of the manufacturer and the owner; and
(2) A description of the road vehicle including the:
(i) Particulars of construction;
(ii) Dimensions;
(iii) Construction materials; and
(iv) Marks and numbers, including chassis, engine, and registration numbers.
(d) A statement signed by the manufacturer that:
(1) It will present vehicles of the type concerned to the Certifying Authority which that Authority may wish to examine;
(2) Permit the Certifying Authority to examine further units at any time during or after the production run;
(3) Notify the Certifying Authority of each change in the design or specifications before adoption;
(4) Mark the road vehicles in a visible place with the identification number or letters of the design type and the serial number of the vehicle in the type series manufacturer's number; and
(5) Keep a record of vehicles manufactured according to the design type.
§ 115.64
Plan review.
(a) A manufacturer or owner who wants road vehicles to be approved by design type must submit the plans and specifications of the road vehicles to the Certifying Authority.
(b) The Certifying Authority that examines the plans and specifications submitted in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section shall:
(1) Approve the plans and specifications in accordance with the requirements of § 115.65 and arrange to inspect a road vehicle in accordance with § 115.66; or
(2) Advise the applicant of any necessary changes to be made for compliance with the requirements of § 115.65.
(c) If changes in design of the road vehicle are made during production but after approval of the plans and specifications by the Certifying Authority, the manufacturer shall immediately notify the Certifying Authority and furnish it with “as-built” drawings of the road vehicle so that the plans can be reviewed and one or more road vehicles inspected during the production stage to confirm that they continue to comply with the requirements of § 115.65.
§ 115.65
Technical requirements for road vehicles by design type.
The plans and specifications of a road vehicle that are submitted in accordance with the requirements contained in § 115.64, and the one or more road vehicles that are inspected in accordance with the requirements of § 115.66, must comply with the requirements of Annex 2 of the Customs Convention on the International Transport of Goods Under Cover of TIR Carnets (TIR Convention), November 14, 1975 (TIAS). Copies of Annex 2 may be obtained from the Headquarters, U.S. Customs Service, Office of Field Operations, 1300 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20229.
[T.D. 86-92, 51 FR 16161, May 1, 1986, as amended by T.D. 99-27, 64 FR 13675, Mar. 22, 1999]
§ 115.66
Examination, inspection, and testing.
(a) Before the issuance of a certificate of approval by design type, the Certifying Authority shall:
(1) Make a physical examination of one or more vehicles of the production series concerned;
(2) Assure itself as to the adequacy of the manufacturer's system to control quality of materials used, manufacturing methods, and finished road vehicles; and
(3) Require the manufacturer to make available to the Certifying Authority records of materials, including affidavits furnished by suppliers.
(b) The Certifying Authority shall conduct such examinations, inspections, and testing of the production run road vehicles as it deems necessary.
§ 115.67
Approval certificate.
The holder of the approval certificate shall, before using the vehicle for the carriage of goods under the cover of a TIR Carnet, fill in as may be required on the approval certificate:
(a) The registration number given to the vehicle (item No. 1); or
(b) In the case of a vehicle not subject to registration, particulars of his name and business address (item No. 8). (See Annex 4 of the Convention for model of certificate of approval.)
§ 115.68
Termination of approval.
Any road vehicle whose essential features are changed shall no longer be covered by the design type approval. Such a road vehicle may be made available to a Certifying Authority for inspection and individual approval in accordance with subpart E of this part. However, repairs in kind do not constitute a change of the essential features.
Pt. 118

# PART 118—CENTRALIZED EXAMINATION STATIONS
Sec.
118.0
Scope.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
118.1
Definition.
118.2
Establishment of a CES.
118.3
Written agreement.
118.4
Responsibilities of a CES operator.
118.5
Procedures for changes to a fee schedule.

# Subpart B—Application To Establish a CES
118.11
Contents of application.
118.12
Action on application.
118.13
Notification of selection or nonselection.

# Subpart C—Termination of a CES
118.21
Temporary suspension; permanent revocation of selection and cancellation of agreement to operate a CES.
118.22
Notice of immediate suspension or proposed revocation and cancellation action.
118.23
Appeal to the Assistant Commissioner; procedure; status of CES operations.

# Authority:
19 U.S.C. 66, 1499, 1623, 1624; 22 U.S.C. 401; 31 U.S.C. 5317.

# Source:
T.D. 93-6, 58 FR 5604, Jan. 22, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 118.0
Scope.
This part sets forth regulations providing for the making of agreements between Customs and persons desiring to operate a centralized examination station (CES). It covers the application process, the responsibilities of the person or entity selected to be a CES operator, the written agreement to operate a CES facility, the port director's discretion to immediately suspend a CES operator's or entity's selection and the written agreement to operate the CES or to propose the permanent revocation of a CES operator's or entity's selection and cancellation of the written agreement for specified conduct, and the appeal procedures to challenge an immediate suspension or proposed revocation and cancellation action. Procedures and requirements for the transfer of merchandise to a CES are set forth in part 151 of this chapter.
[T.D. 93-6, 58 FR 5604, Jan. 22, 1993; 58 FR 6574, Jan. 29, 1993, as amended by T.D. 96-57, 61 FR 39070, July 26, 1996]

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 118.1
Definition.
A centralized examination station (CES) is a privately operated facility, not in the charge of a Customs officer, at which merchandise is made available to Customs officers for physical examination. A CES may be established in any port or any portion of a port, or any other area under the jurisdiction of a port director. To present outbound cargo for inspection at a CES at a port other than the shipment's designated port of exit, either proof of the shipper's consent to the inspection must be furnished or a complete set of transportation documents must accompany the shipment to evidence that exportation of the goods is imminent and that the goods are committed to export, thereby, making them subject to Customs examination.
[T.D. 93-6, 58 FR 5604, Jan. 22, 1993, as amended by T.D. 98-29, 63 FR 16684, Apr. 6, 1998]
§ 118.2
Establishment of a CES.
When a port director makes a preliminary determination that a new CES should be established, or when the term of an existing CES is about to expire and the port director believes that the need for a CES still exists, he will announce, by written notice posted at the customhouse and by any other written methods he may consider appropriate (such as normal port information distribution channels, trade bulletins or local newspapers), that applications to operate a CES are being accepted. This notice will include the general criteria together with any local criteria that applicants must meet (see § 118.11 of this part), and will invite the public to submit any relevant written comments on whether a new CES should be established or on whether there is still a need for a CES. Applications will be accepted only in response to the port notice and must be received within 60 calendar days from the date of the notice. Public comments must be received within 30 calendar days from the date of the notice.
§ 118.3
Written agreement.
The applicant tentatively selected to operate a CES must sign a written agreement with CBP before commencing operations. Failure to execute a written agreement with CBP in a timely manner will result in the revocation of that applicant's tentative selection and may result in tentative selection of another applicant or republication of the notice soliciting applications. In addition to the provisions described elsewhere in this part, the agreement will specify the duration of the authority to operate the CES. That duration will be not less than three years nor more than five years. Such agreements cannot be transferred, sold, inherited, or conveyed in any manner. At the expiration of the agreement, an operator wishing to reapply may do so
pursuant to this part and his application will be considered de novo.
[T.D. 93-6, 58 FR 5604, Jan. 22, 1993, as amended at CBP Dec. 10-29, 75 FR 52452, Aug. 26, 2010]
§ 118.4
Responsibilities of a CES operator.
By signing the agreement and commencing operation of a CES, an operator agrees to:
(a) Maintain the facility designated as the CES in conformity with the security standards as outlined in the approved application;
(b) Provide adequate personnel and equipment to ensure reliable service for the opening, presentation for inspection, and closing of all types of cargo designated for examination by Customs. Such service must be provided on a “first come-first served” basis;
(c) Assess service fees as outlined in the fee schedule included in the approved application or as changed under § 118.5 of this part and bill users directly for services rendered;
(d) Assume responsibility for any charges or expenses incurred in connection with the operation of the CES;
(e) Maintain, at his own expense, adequate liability insurance with respect to the property within his control and with respect to persons having access to the CES;
(f) Keep current the list filed with the port director pursuant to § 118.11(f) of this part. Additions to or deletions from the list must be submitted in writing to the port director within 10 calendar days of the commencement or termination of employment;
(g) Maintain a Customs custodial bond in an amount set by the port director. The CES operator will accept and keep safe all merchandise delivered to the CES for examination. The bond will include liability for transporting merchandise to the CES from within the district boundaries (see definition of “district” at § 112.1); such liability is assumed by the CES operator when he picks up merchandise for transportation to his facility. The operator also agrees to increase the amount of the bond if deemed appropriate by the port director.
(h) Maintain and make available for Customs examination all records connected with the operation of the CES in accordance with part 162 of this chapter and retain such records for a period of not less than five years from the date of the transaction or examination conducted pursuant to the agreement to operate the CES;
(i) Submit, if requested by Customs, the fingerprints of all employees involved in the CES operation;
(j) Provide office space, parking spaces, appropriate sanitary facilities, and potable water to Customs personnel at no charge or a charge of $1 per year; and
(k) Perform in accordance with any other reasonable requirements imposed by the port director.
(l) Provide transportation for merchandise to the CES from within the district boundaries (see definition of “district” at § 112.1). This responsibility is optional. If the CES operator chooses to provide transportation, he shall receipt for the merchandise when he picks it up and assume liability for the merchandise at that time.
[T.D. 93-6, 58 FR 5604, Jan. 22, 1993, as amended by T.D. 94-81, 59 FR 51495, Oct. 12, 1994; T.D. 95-77, 60 FR 50020, Sept. 27, 1995; T.D. 98-29, 63 FR 16684, Apr. 6, 1998]
§ 118.5
Procedures for changes to a fee schedule.
Whenever a CES operator intends to increase, add to or otherwise change the service fees set forth in the fee schedule referred to in § 118.4(c) of this part, the operator shall provide 90 calendar days advance written notice to the port director of such proposed fee schedule change and shall include in the notice a justification for any increased or additional fee. Following receipt of this written notice, the port director will advise the public of the proposed fee schedule change and invite comments thereon under the public notice and comment procedures set forth in § 118.2 of this part. After a review of the proposed fee schedule change and any public comments thereon, and based on the principle of comparability set forth in § 118.11(c) of this part, the port director will decide whether to approve the change, will notify the CES operator in writing of his decision, and
will notify the public of any approved fee schedule change by the same methods that were used to provide the public with notice of the proposed change. A CES operator shall remain bound by the existing fee schedule and shall not implement any fee schedule change prior to receipt of written approval of the change from the port director.

# Subpart B—Application To Establish a CES
§ 118.11
Contents of application.
Each application to operate a CES shall consist of the following information, any application not providing all of the specified information will not be considered, and the responses to paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (g) and (h) of this section shall constitute the criteria used to judge the application:
(a) The name and address of the facility to be operated as the CES, the names of all principals or corporate officers, and the name and telephone number of an individual to be contacted for further information;
(b) A description of the CES's accessibility within the port or other location, and a floor plan of the facility actually dedicated to the CES operation showing bay doors, office space, exterior features, security features, and staging and work space. Where a significant capital expenditure would be required in order for an existing facility to meet security or other physical or equipment requirements necessary for the CES operation, the applicant may request in the application time to conform the facility to such requirements. The agreement referred to in § 118.3 of this part shall not be executed, in any event, until the facility is conformed to meet the requirements;
(c) A schedule of fees clearly showing what the applicant will charge for each type of service. Subject to any special costs incurred by the applicant such as facility modifications to meet specific cargo handling or storage requirements or to meet Customs security standards, the fees set forth in the schedule shall be comparable to fees charged for similar services in the area to be served by the CES;
(d) A detailed list of equipment showing that the applicant can make a diverse variety of cargo available for examination in an efficient and timely manner;
(e) A copy of an approved custodial bond on Customs Form 301. If the applicant does not possess such a bond, a completed Customs Form 301 must be included with the application for approval as a prerequisite to selection;
(f) A list of all employees involved in the CES operation setting forth their names, dates of birth, and social security numbers. (Providing social security numbers is voluntary; however, failure to provide the number may hinder the investigation process.);
(g) Any information showing the applicant's experience in international cargo operations and knowledge of Customs procedures and regulations; and
(h) Any other information to address any local criteria that the port director considers essential to the selection process based on port conditions.
[T.D. 93-6, 58 FR 5604, Jan. 22, 1993; 58 FR 6574, Jan. 29, 1993, as amended by T.D. 98-29, 63 FR 16684, Apr. 6, 1998]
§ 118.12
Action on application.
Following submission of all applications in accordance with §§ 118.2 and 118.11 of this part, the port director will advise the public of the applications received and invite comments thereon under the public notice and comment procedures set forth in § 118.2; with regard to each application, the notice will set forth the name of the applicant, the address of the facility proposed to be operated as the CES, the proposed fee schedule, the list of equipment at the facility, and the number of employees to be involved in the CES operation. The port director, based on a review of all applications under the criteria set forth in § 118.11 and any public comments submitted under § 118.2 or this section, shall determine whether a CES operator should be selected and, if a CES operator is to be selected, shall select the applicant that will best meet the examination needs of Customs and facilitate the movement of merchandise.
[T.D. 93-6, 58 FR 5604, Jan. 22, 1993, as amended by T.D. 99-64, 64 FR 43266, Aug. 10, 1999]
§ 118.13
Notification of selection or nonselection.
The applicant selected to operate a CES will be notified in writing by the port director of his tentative selection. The selection shall become final upon execution of the written agreement between Customs and the applicant under § 118.3 of this part, and the port director will advise the public of the final selection and of the date on which the CES will commence operation under the agreement in accordance with the notice procedures set forth in § 118.2 of this part. Each applicant not selected to be a CES operator will be so notified in writing and with a statement of the reason of nonselection.

# Subpart C—Termination of a CES
§ 118.21
Temporary suspension; permanent revocation of selection and cancellation of agreement to operate a CES.
The port director may immediately suspend or propose permanent revocation and cancellation of CES operations for cause as provided in this section.
(a)
Immediate suspension.
The port director may immediately suspend, for a temporary period of time or until revocation and cancellation proceedings are concluded pursuant to § 118.23, a CES operator's or entity's selection and the written agreement to operate the CES if:
(1) The selection and written agreement were obtained through fraud or the misstatement of a material fact; or
(2) The CES operator or an officer of a corporation which is a CES operator or a person the port director determines is exercising substantial ownership or control over such operator or officer is indicted for, convicted of, or has committed acts, which would constitute a felony, or a misdemeanor involving theft or a theft-connected crime. In the absence of an indictment or conviction, the port director must have probable cause to believe the proscribed acts occurred.
(b)
Proposed revocation and cancellation.
The port director may propose to revoke the selection as operator and cancel the agreement to operate a CES if:
(1) The CES operator refuses or otherwise fails to follow any proper order of a Customs officer or any Customs order, rule, or regulation relative to the operation of a CES, or fails to operate in accordance with the terms of his agreement or to comply with any of the provisions of § 118.4 of this part;
(2) The CES operator fails to retain merchandise which has been designated for examination;
(3) The CES operator does not provide secure facilities or properly safeguard merchandise within the CES;
(4) The CES operator fails to furnish a current list of names, addresses and other information required by § 118.4 of this part; or
(5) The custodial bond required by § 118.4 of this part is determined to be insufficient in amount or lacking sufficient sureties, and a satisfactory new bond with good and sufficient sureties is not furnished within a reasonable time.
(6) The CES operator or an officer of a corporation which is a CES operator or a person the port director determines is exercising substantial ownership or control over such operator or officer is indicted for, convicted of, or has committed acts, which would constitute any of the offenses listed under paragraph (a) of this section. Where adverse action is initiated by the port director pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section and continued under this paragraph, the suspension of CES activities remains in effect through the appeal procedures provided under § 118.23.
(c)
Circumstance of change in employment not a bar to adverse action.
Any change in the employment status of a corporate officer (for example, discharge, resignation, demotion, or promotion) prior to indictment or conviction or after committing any acts which would constitute the culpable behavior described under paragraph (a) of this section, will not preclude application of this section, but may be taken into account by the port director in exercising discretion to take adverse action. If the person whose employment status changed remains in a substantial ownership, control, or beneficial relationship with the CES operator, this factor will also be considered
in exercising discretion under this section.
[T.D. 93-6, 58 FR 5604, Jan. 22, 1993; 58 FR 6574, Jan. 29, 1993, as amended by T.D. 96-57, 61 FR 39071, July 26, 1996]
§ 118.22
Notice of immediate suspension or proposed revocation and cancellation action.
Adverse action pursuant to the provisions of § 118.21(a) or (b) is initiated when the port director serves written notice on the operator or entity selected to operate the CES. The notice shall be in the form of a statement specifically setting forth the grounds for the adverse action and shall inform the operator of the appeal procedures under § 118.23 of this part.
[T.D. 96-57, 61 FR 39071, July 26, 1996]
§ 118.23
Appeal to the Assistant Commissioner; procedure; status of CES operations.
(a)
Appeal to the Assistant Commissioner.
Appeal of a port director's decision under § 118.21(a) or (b) must be filed with the Assistant Commissioner, Office of Field Operations, within 10 calendar days of receipt of the written notice of the adverse action. The appeal shall be filed in duplicate and shall set forth the CES operator's or entity's responses to the grounds specified by the port director in his written notice letter for the adverse action initiated. The Assistant Commissioner, Office of Field Operations, or his designee, shall render a written decision to the CES operator or entity, stating the reasons for the decision, by letter mailed within 30 working days following receipt of the appeal, unless the period for decision is extended with due notification to the CES operator or entity.
(b)
Status of CES operations during appeal.
During this appeal period, an immediate suspension of a CES operator's or entity's selection and written agreement pursuant to § 118.21(a) of this part shall remain in effect. A proposed revocation of a CES operator's or entity's selection and cancellation of the written agreement pursuant to § 118.21(b)(1) through (5) of this part shall not take effect unless the appeal process under this paragraph has been concluded with a decision adverse to the operator.
(c)
Effect of suspension or revocation.
Once a suspension or revocation action takes effect, the CES operator must cease CES operations. However, when CES operations are suspended or revoked and cancelled by Customs, it is the CES operator's responsibility to ensure that merchandise already at the CES is properly consigned to another location for inspection, as directed by the importer and approved by the port director.
[T.D. 96-57, 61 FR 39071, July 26, 1996]
Pt. 122

# PART 122—AIR COMMERCE REGULATIONS
Sec.
122.0
Scope.

# Subpart A—General Definitions and Provisions
122.1
General definitions.
122.2
Other Customs laws and regulations.
122.3
Availability of forms.
122.4
English language required.
122.5
Reproduction of Customs forms.

# Subpart B—Classes of Airports
122.11
Designation as international airport.
122.12
Operation of international airports.
122.13
List of international airports.
122.14
Landing rights airport.
122.15
User fee airports.

# Subpart C—Private Aircraft
122.21
Application.
122.22
Electronic manifest requirement for all individuals onboard private aircraft arriving in and departing from the United States; notice of arrival and departure information.
122.23
Certain aircraft arriving from areas south of the U.S.
122.24
Landing requirements for certain aircraft arriving from areas south of U.S.
122.25
Exemption from special landing requirements.
122.26
Entry and clearance.
122.27
Documents required.
122.28
Private aircraft taken abroad by U.S. residents.
122.29
Arrival fee and overtime services.
122.30
Other Customs laws and regulations.

# Subpart D—Landing Requirements
122.31
Notice of arrival.
122.32
Aircraft required to land.
122.33
Place of first landing.
122.35
Emergency or forced landing.
122.36
Responsibility of aircraft commander.
122.37
Precleared aircraft.
122.38
Permit and special license to unlade and lade.

# Subpart E—Aircraft Entry and Entry Documents; Electronic Manifest Requirements for Passengers, Crew Members, and Non-Crew Members Onboard Commercial Aircraft Arriving In, Continuing Within, and Overflying the United States
122.41
Aircraft required to enter.
122.42
Aircraft entry.
122.43
General declaration.
122.44
Crew baggage declaration.
122.45
Crew list.
122.46
Crew purchase list.
122.47
Stores list.
122.48
Air cargo manifest.
122.48a
Electronic information for air cargo required in advanceof arrival.
122.48b
Air Cargo Advance Screening (ACAS).
122.49
Correction of air cargo manifest or air waybill.
122.49a
Electronic manifest requirement for passengers onboard commercial aircraft arriving in the United States.
122.49b
Electronic manifest requirement for crew members and non-crew members onboard commercial aircraft arriving in, continuing within, and overflying the United States.
122.49c
Master crew member list and master non-crew member list requirement for commercial aircraft arriving in, departing from, continuing within, and overflying the United States.
122.49d
Passenger Name Record (PNR) information.
122.50
General order merchandise.

# Subpart F—International Traffic Permit
122.51
Aircraft of domestic origin registered in the U.S.
122.52
Aircraft of foreign origin registered in the U.S.
122.53
Aircraft of foreign registry chartered or leased to U.S. air carriers.
122.54
Aircraft of foreign registry.

# Subpart G—Clearance of Aircraft and Permission To Depart
122.61
Aircraft required to clear.
122.62
Aircraft not otherwise required to clear.
122.63
Scheduled airlines.
122.64
Other aircraft.
122.65
Failure to depart.
122.66
Clearance or permission to depart denied.

# Subpart H—Documents Required for Clearance and Permission To Depart; Electronic Manifest Requirements for Passengers, Crew Members, and Non-Crew Members Onboard Commercial Aircraft Departing From the United States
122.71
Aircraft departing with no commercial export cargo.
122.72
Aircraft departing with commercial export cargo.
122.73
General declaration and air cargo manifest.
122.74
Incomplete (pro forma) manifest.
122.75
Complete manifest.
122.75a
Electronic manifest requirement for passengers onboard commercial aircraft departing from the United States.
122.75b
Electronic manifest requirement for crew members and non-crew members onboard commercial aircraft departing from the United States.
122.76
Electronic Export Information (EEI) filing citations, exclusions, and/or exemption legends and inspection certificates.
122.77
Clearance certificate.
122.78
Entry or withdrawal for exportation or for transportation and exportation.
122.79
Shipments to U.S. possessions.
122.80
Verification of statement.

# Subpart I—Procedures for Residue Cargo and Stopover Passengers
122.81
Application.
122.82
Bond requirements.
122.83
Forms required.
122.84
Intermediate airport.
122.85
Final airport.
122.86
Substitution of aircraft.
122.87
Other requirements.
122.88
Aircraft carrying domestic (stopover) passengers.

# Subpart J—Transportation in Bond and Merchandise in Transit
122.91
Application.
122.92
Procedure at port of origin.
122.93
Procedure at destination or exportation airport.
122.94
Certificate of lading for exportation.
122.95
Other provisions.

# Subpart K—Accompanied Baggage in Transit
122.101
Entry of accompanied baggage.
122.102
Inspection of baggage in transit.

# Subpart L—Transit Air Cargo Manifest (TACM) Procedures
122.111
Application.
122.112
Definitions.
122.113
Form for transit air cargo manifest procedures.
122.114
Contents.
122.115
Labeling of cargo.
122.116
Identification of manifest sheets.
122.117
Requirements for transit air cargo transport.
122.118
Exportation from port of arrival.
122.119
Transportation to another U.S. port.
122.120
Transportation to another port for exportation.

# Subpart M—Aircraft Liquor Kits
122.131
Application.
122.132
Sealing of aircraft liquor kits.
122.133
Stores list required on arrival.
122.134
When airline does not have in-bond liquor storeroom.
122.135
When airline has in-bond liquor storeroom.
122.136
Outgoing stores list.
122.137
Certificate of use.

# Subpart N—Flights to and From the U.S. Virgin Islands
122.141
Definitions.
122.142
Flights between the U.S. Virgin Islands and a foreign area.
122.143
Flights from the U.S. to the U.S. Virgin Islands.
122.144
Flights from the U.S. Virgin Islands to the U.S.
Subpart O [Reserved]
Subpart P—Public Aircraft [Reserved]

# Subpart Q—Penalties
122.161
In general.
122.162
Failure to notify and explain differences in air cargo manifest.
122.163
Transit air cargo traveling to U.S. ports.
122.164
Transportation to another port for exportation.
122.165
Air cabotage.
122.166
Arrival, departure, discharge, and documentation.
122.167
Aviation smuggling.

# Subpart R—Air Carrier Smuggling Prevention Program
122.171
Description of program.
122.172
Eligibility.
122.173
Application procedures.
122.174
Operational procedures.
122.175
Exemption from penalties.
122.176
Removal from ACSPP.

# Subpart S—Access to Customs Security Areas
122.181
Definition of Customs security area.
122.182
Security provisions.
122.183
Denial of access.
122.184
Change of identification; change in circumstances of employee; additional employer responsibilities.
122.185
Report of loss or theft of Customs access seal.
122.186
Presentation of Customs access seal by other person.
122.187
Revocation or suspension of access.
122.188
Issuance of temporary Customs access seal.
122.189
Bond liability.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 19 U.S.C. 58b, 66, 1415, 1431, 1433, 1436, 1448, 1459, 1590, 1594, 1623, 1624, 1644, 1644a, 2071 note.
Section 122.22 is also issued under 46 U.S.C. 60105.
Section 122.49a also issued under 8 U.S.C. 1101, 1221, 19 U.S.C. 1431, 49 U.S.C. 44909.
Section 122.49b also issued under 8 U.S.C. 1221, 19 U.S.C. 1431, 49 U.S.C. 114, 44909.
Section 122.49c also issued under 8 U.S.C. 1221, 19 U.S.C. 1431, 49 U.S.C. 114, 44909.
Section 122.49d also issued under 49 U.S.C. 44909(c)(3).
Section 122.75a also issued under 8 U.S.C. 1221, 19 U.S.C. 1431.
Section 122.75b also issued under 8 U.S.C. 1221, 19 U.S.C. 1431, 49 U.S.C. 114.

# Source:
T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 122.0
Scope.
(a)
Applicability.
(1) The regulations in this part relate to the entry and clearance of aircraft and the transportation of persons and cargo by aircraft, and are applicable to all air commerce.
(2) The regulations in this part do not apply to the United States Postal Service's transmission of advance electronic information for inbound international mail shipments by air, see § 145.74 of this chapter.
(b)
Authority of other agencies.
Nothing in this part is intended to divest or diminish authority and operational control that are vested in the FAA or any other agency, particularly with respect to airspace and aircraft safety.
[CBP Dec. 08-43, 73 FR 68309, Nov. 18, 2008, as amended by CBP Dec. 21-04, 86 FR 14277, Mar. 15, 2021]

# Subpart A—General Definitions and Provisions
§ 122.1
General definitions.
The following definitions apply in this part, unless otherwise stated:
(a)
Aircraft.
An “aircraft” is any device now known, or hereafter invented, used or designed for navigation or flight in the air. It does not include hovercraft.
(b)
Aircraft commander.
An “aircraft commander” is any person serving on an aircraft who is in charge or has command of its operation and navigation.
(c)
Agent.
An “agent” is any person who is authorized to act for or in place of:
(1) An owner or operator of a scheduled airline by written authority; or
(2) An owner or operator of a non-scheduled airline, by power of attorney.
The authority to act shall be in writing and satisfactory to the port director.
(d)
Commercial aircraft.
A “commercial aircraft” is any aircraft transporting passengers and/or cargo for some payment or other consideration, including money or services rendered.
(e)
International airport.
An “international airport” is any airport designated by:
(1) The Secretary of the Treasury or the Commissioner of Customs as a port of entry for aircraft arriving in the U.S. from any place outside thereof and for the merchandise carried on such aircraft;
(2) The Attorney General as a port of entry for aliens arriving on such aircraft; and
(3) The Secretary of Health and Human Services as a place for quarantine inspection.
(f)
Landing rights airport.
A “landing rights airport” is any airport, other than an international airport or user fee airport, at which flights from a foreign area are given permission by Customs to land.
(g)
Preclearance.
“Preclearance” is the examination and inspection of air travelers and their baggage, at the request of an airline, at foreign places where Customs personnel are stationed for that purpose. Preclearance may be used only for air travelers and their baggage, not for merchandise.
(h)
Private aircraft.
A “private aircraft” is any aircraft engaged in a personal or business flight to or from the U.S. which is not:
(1) Carrying passengers and/or cargo for commercial purposes;
(2) Leaving the U.S. carrying neither passengers nor cargo in order to lade passengers and/or cargo in a foreign area for commercial purposes; or
(3) Returning to the U.S. carrying neither passengers nor cargo in ballast after leaving with passengers and/or cargo for commercial purposes;
(i)
Public aircraft.
A “public aircraft”, is any aircraft owned by, or under the complete control and management of the U.S. government or any of its agencies, or any aircraft owned by or under the complete control and management of any foreign government which exempts public aircraft of the U.S. from arrival, entry and clearance requirements similar to those provided in subpart C of this part, but not including any government owned aircraft engaged in carrying persons or property for commercial purposes. This definition applies if the aircraft is:
(1) Manned entirely by members of the armed forces or civil service of such government, or by both;
(2) Transporting only property of such government, or passengers traveling on official business of such government; or
(3) Carrying neither passengers nor cargo.
(j)
Residue cargo.
“Residue cargo” is any cargo on board an aircraft arriving in the U.S. from a foreign area if the:
(1) Final delivery airport in the U.S. is not the port of arrival; or
(2) Cargo remains on board the aircraft and travels from port to port in the U.S., for final delivery in a foreign area.
(k)
Scheduled airline.
A “scheduled airline” is any individual, partnership, corporation or association:
(1) Engaged in air transportation under regular schedules to, over, away from, or within the U.S.; and
(2) Holding a Foreign Air Carrier Permit or a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity, issued by the Department of Transportation pursuant to 14 CFR parts 201 and 213.
(l)
United States.
Except when used in another context, “U.S.” means the territory of the several States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico, including the territorial waters and overlying airspace.
(m)
User fee airport.
A “user fee airport” is an airport so designated by Customs. Flights from a foreign area may be granted permission to land at a user fee airport rather than at an international airport or a landing rights airport. An informational listing of user fee airports is contained in § 122.15.
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by T.D. 88-16, 53 FR 10371, Mar. 31, 1988; T.D. 92-90, 57 FR 43397, Sept. 21, 1992; T.D. 93-66, 58 FR 44130, Aug. 19, 1993]
§ 122.2
Other Customs laws and regulations.
Except as otherwise provided for in this chapter, and insofar as such laws and regulations are applicable, aircraft arriving or having arrived from or departing for any foreign port or place, and the persons and merchandise, including baggage, carried thereon, shall be subject to the laws and regulations applicable to vessels to the extent that such laws and regulations are administered or enforced by Customs, as provided in 19 U.S.C. 1644 and 1644a.
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by T.D. 98-74, 63 FR 51288, Sept. 25, 1998]
§ 122.3
Availability of forms.
The forms mentioned in this part may be purchased from the director of port of entry. A small quantity of each form is set aside by port directors for free distribution and official use.
§ 122.4
English language required.
A translation in the English language shall be attached to the original and each copy of any form or document written or printed in a foreign language.
§ 122.5
Reproduction of Customs forms.
(a)
Specifications.
Subject to approval by Customs, the forms mentioned in this part may be printed by private parties if the specified size, wording arrangement, style and size of type, and quality of paper are used.
(b)
Exceptions.
Port directors may accept privately printed copies of the General Declaration (Customs Form 7507) and air cargo manifest (Customs Form 7509) which are different from the official forms. The privately printed forms shall include all information required on the official forms. The differences allowed are:
(1)
General Declaration.
Customs Form 7507 may be printed in several languages, so long as the form includes an English version. The instructions on the reverse side of the official form may be omitted.
(2)
Air cargo manifest.
Customs Form 7509 may be changed to allow for additional information used by the airline.

# Subpart B—Classes of Airports
§ 122.11
Designation as international airport.
(a)
Procedure.
International airports, as defined in § 122.1(e), will be designated after due investigation to establish that sufficient need exists in any port to justify such designation and to determine the airport best suited for such purpose. In each case, a specific airport will be chosen. International airports will be publicly owned, unless circumstances require otherwise
(b)
Withdrawal of designation.
The designation as an international airport may be withdrawn for any of the following reasons:
(1) The amount of business clearing through the airport does not justify maintenance of inspection equipment and personnel;
(2) Proper facilities are not provided or maintained by the airport;
(3) The rules and regulations of the Federal Government are not followed; or
(4) Some other location would be more useful.
(c)
Providing office space to the Federal Government.
Each international airport
shall provide, without cost to the Federal Government, proper office and other space for the sole use of Federal officials working at the airport. A suitable paved loading area shall be supplied by each airport at a place convenient to the office space. The loading area shall be kept for the use of aircraft entering or clearing through the airport.
§ 122.12
Operation of international airports.
(a)
Entry, clearance and charges.
International airports are open to all aircraft for entry and clearance at no charge by Customs. However, charges may be assessed by the airport for commercial or private use of the airport.
(b)
Servicing of aircraft.
When an aircraft enters or clears through an international airport, it shall be promptly serviced by airport personnel solely on the basis of order of arrival or readiness for departure. Servicing charges imposed by the airport operators shall not be greater than the schedule of charges in effect at the airport in question.
(c)
FAA rules; denial of permission to land
—(1)
Federal Aviation Administration.
International airports must follow and enforce any requirements for airport operations, including airport rules that are set out by the Federal Aviation Administration in 14 CFR part 91.
(2)
Customs and Border Protection.
CBP, based on security or other risk assessments, may limit the locations where aircraft entering the United States from a foreign port or place may land. Consistent with § 122.32(a) of this Title, CBP has the authority to deny aircraft permission to land in the United States, based upon security or other risk assessments.
(3)
Commercial aircraft.
Permission to land at an international airport may be denied to a commercial aircraft if advance electronic information for incoming foreign cargo aboard the aircraft has not been received as provided in § 122.48a except in the case of emergency or forced landings.
(4)
Private Aircraft.
Permission to land at an international airport will be denied if the pilot of a private aircraft arriving from a foreign port or place fails to submit an electronic manifest and notice of arrival pursuant to § 122.22, except in the case of emergency or forced landings.
(d)
Additional requirements.
Additional requirements may be put into effect at a particular airport as the needs of the Customs port served by the airport demand.
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by CBP Dec. 03-32, 68 FR 68170, Dec. 5, 2003; CBP Dec. 08-43, 73 FR 68309, Nov. 18, 2008]
§ 122.13
List of international airports.
The following is a list of international airports of entry designated by the Secretary of the Treasury.

# Location and Name
Albany, N.Y.—Albany County Airport
Baudette, Minn.—Baudette International Airport
Bellingham, Wash.—Bellingham International Airport
Brownsville, Tex.—Brownsville International Airport
Burlington, Vt.—Burlington International Airport
Calexico, Calif.—Calexico International Airport
Caribou, Maine—Caribou Municipal Airport
Chicago, Ill.—Midway Airport
Cleveland, Ohio—Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Cut Bank, Mont.—Cut Bank Airport
Del Rio, Tex.—Del Rio International Airport
Detroit, Mich.—Detroit City Airport
Detroit, Mich.—Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport
Douglas, Ariz.—Bisbee-Douglas International Airport
Duluth, Minn.—Duluth International Airport
Duluth, Minn.—Sky Harbor Airport
El Paso, Tex.—El Paso International Airport
Fort Lauderdale, Fla.—Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport
Friday Harbor, Wash.—Friday Harbor Seaplane Base
Grand Forks, N. Dak.—Grand Forks International Airport
Great Falls, Mont.—Great Falls International Airport
Havre, Mont.—Havre City-County Airport
Houlton, Maine—Houlton International Airport
International Falls, Minn.—Falls International Airport
Juneau, Alaska—Juneau Municipal Airport
Juneau, Alaska—Juneau Harbor Seaplane Base
Ketchikan, Alaska—Ketchikan Harbor Seaplane Base
Key West, Fla.—Key West International Airport
Laredo, Tex.—Laredo International Airport
Massena, N.Y.—Richards Field
Maverick, Tex.—Maverick County Airport
McAllen, Tex.—Miller International Airport
Miami, Fla.—Chalk Seaplane Base
Miami, Fla.—Miami International Airport
Minot, N.Dak.—Minot International Airport
Nogales, Ariz.—Nogales International Airport
Ogdensburg, N.Y.—Ogdensburg Harbor
Ogdensburg, N.Y.—Ogdensburg International Airport
Oroville, Wash.—Dorothy Scott Airport
Oroville, Wash.—Dorothy Scott Seaplane Base
Pembina, N.Dak.—Pembina Municipal Airport
Port Huron, Mich.—St. Clair County International Airport
Port Townsend, Wash.—Jefferson County International Airport
Ranier, Minn.—Ranier Internatioal Seaplane Base
Rochester, N.Y.—Rochester-Monroe County Airport
Rouses Point, N.Y.—Rouses Point Seaplane Base
San Diego, Calif.—San Diego International Airport (Lindbergh Field)
Sandusky, Ohio—Griffing-Sandusky Airport
Sault Ste. Marie, Mich.—Sault Ste. Marie City-County Airport
Seattle, Wash.—King County International Airport
Seattle, Wash.—Lake Union Air Service (Seaplanes)
Tampa, Fla.—Tampa International Airport
Tucson, Ariz.—Tucson International Airport
Watertown, N.Y.—Watertown New York International Airport
West Palm Beach, Fla.—Palm Beach International Airport
Williston, N. Dak.—Sloulin Field International Airport
Wrangell, Alaska—Wrangell Seaplane Base
Yuma, Ariz.—Yuma International Airport
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by T.D. 96-44, 61 FR 25778, May 23, 1996; T.D. 99-40, 64 FR 18566, Apr. 15, 1999]
§ 122.14
Landing rights airport.
(a)
Permission to land.
Permission to land at a landing rights airport may be given as follows:
(1)
Scheduled flight.
The scheduled aircraft of a scheduled airline may be allowed to land at a landing rights airport. Permission is given by the director of the port, or his representative, at the port nearest to which first landing is made.
(i)
Additional flights, charters or changes in schedule—Scheduled aircraft.
If a new carrier plans to set up a new flight schedule, or an established carrier makes changes in its approved schedule, landing rights may be granted by the port director.
(ii)
Additional or charter flight.
If a carrier or charter operator wants to begin operating or to add flights, application must be made to the port director for landing rights. All requests must be made not less than 48 hours before the intended time of arrival, except in emergencies. If the request is oral, it must be put in writing before or at the time of arrival.
(2)
Private aircraft.
The pilots of private aircraft are required to secure permission to land from CBP following transmission of the advance notice of arrival via an electronic data interchange system approved by CBP, pursuant to § 122.22. Prior to departure as defined in § 122.22(a), from a foreign port or place, the pilot of a private aircraft must receive a message from CBP that landing rights have been granted for that aircraft at a particular airport.
(3)
Other aircraft.
Following advance notice of arrival pursuant to § 122.31, all other aircraft may be allowed to land at a landing rights airport by the director of the port of entry or station nearest the first place of landing.
(4)
Denial or withdrawal of landing rights.
Permission to land at a landing rights airport may be denied or permanently or temporarily withdrawn for any of the following reasons:
(i) Appropriate and/or sufficient Federal Government personnel are not available;
(ii) Proper inspectional facilities or equipment are not available at, or maintained by, the requested airport;
(iii) The entity requesting the landing rights has a history of failing to abide by appropriate instructions given by a CBP officer;
(iv) Reasonable grounds exist to believe that applicable Federal rules and regulations pertaining to safety, including cargo safety and security, CBP, or other inspectional activities may not be adhered to; or
(v) CBP has deemed it necessary to deny landing rights to an aircraft.
(5)
Appeal of denial or withdrawal of landing rights for commercial scheduled aircraft as defined in section 122.1(d).
In
the event landing rights are denied or subsequently permanently withdrawn by CBP, within 30 days of such decision, the affected party may file a written appeal with the Assistant Commissioner, Office of Field Operations, Headquarters.
(6)
Emergency or forced landing.
Permission to land is not required for an emergency or forced landing (covered under § 122.35).
(b)
Payment of expenses.
In the case of an arrival at a location outside the limits of a port of entry, the owner, operator or person in charge of the aircraft must pay any added charges for inspecting the aircraft, passengers, employees and merchandise when landing rights are given (see §§ 24.17 and 24.22(e) of this chapter).
(c)
Payment of expenses.
In the case of an arrival at a location outside the limits of a port of entry, the owner, operator or person in charge of the aircraft shall pay any added charges for inspecting the aircraft, passengers, employees and merchandise when landing rights are given (see §§ 24.17 and 24.22(e) of this chapter).
(d)
Denial or withdrawal of landing rights.
Permission to land at a landing rights airport may be denied or withdrawn for any of the following reasons:
(1) Appropriate and/or sufficient Federal Government personnel are not available;
(2) Proper inspectional facilities or equipment are not available at, or maintained by, the requested airport;
(3) The entity requesting services has failed to abide by appropriate instructions of a Customs officer;
(4) Advance cargo information has not been received as provided in § 122.48a;
(5) Other reasonable grounds exist to believe that Federal rules and regulations pertaining to safety, including cargo safety and security, and Customs, or other inspectional activities have not been followed; or
(6) The granting of the requested landing rights would not be in the best interests of the Government.
(e)
Appeal of denial or withdrawal.
In the event landing rights are denied or withdrawn by the port director, a written appeal of the decision may be made to the Assistant Commissioner, Office of Field Operations, Headquarters.
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988. Redesignated and amended by T.D. 92-90, 57 FR 43397, Sept. 21, 1992; T.D. 95-77, 60 FR 50020, Sept. 27, 1995; T.D. 99-27, 64 FR 13675, Mar. 22, 1999; CBP Dec. 03-32, 68 FR 68170, Dec. 5, 2003; CBP Dec. 08-43, 73 FR 68309, Nov. 18, 2008]
§ 122.15
User fee airports.
(a)
Permission to land.
The procedures for obtaining permission to land at a user fee airport are the same procedures as those set forth in § 122.14 for landing rights airports.
(b)
List of user fee airports.
The following is a list of user fee airports designated by the Commissioner of Customs in accordance with 19 U.S.C. 58b. The list is subject to change without notice. Information concerning service at any user fee airport can be obtained by calling the airport or its authority directly.
Location
Name
Addison, Texas
Addison Airport.
Appleton, Wisconsin
Appleton International Airport.
Bedford, Massachusetts
L.G. Hanscom Field.
Belgrade, Montana
Bozeman Yellowstone International Airport.
Boca Raton, Florida
Boca Raton Airport.
Broomfield, Colorado
Rocky Mountain Metropolitan Airport.
Carlsbad, California
McClellan-Palomar Airport.
Conroe, Texas
Conroe-North Houston Regional Airport.
Dallas, Texas
Dallas Love Field Municipal Airport
Daytona Beach, Florida
Daytona Beach International Airport.
Edinburg, Texas
South Texas International Airport at Edinburg.
Egg Harbor Township, New Jersey
Atlantic City International Airport.
Englewood, Colorado
Centennial Airport.
Fort Worth, Texas
Fort Worth Alliance Airport.
Fort Worth, Texas
Fort Worth Meacham International Airport.
Fresno, California
Fresno Yosemite International Airport.
Gypsum, Colorado
Eagle County Regional Airport.
Harlingen, Texas
Valley International Airport.
Hayden, Idaho
Coeur d'Alene Airport.
Ithaca, New York
Ithaca Tompkins Regional Airport.
Johnson City, New York
Greater Binghamton Airport.
Lakeland, Florida
Lakeland Linder International Airport.
Lansing, Michigan
Capital Region International Airport.
Leesburg, Florida
Leesburg International Airport.
Lexington, Kentucky
Blue Grass Airport.
Manchester, New Hampshire
Manchester-Boston Regional Airport.
Marathon, Florida
Florida Keys Marathon Airport.
Mascoutah, Illinois
MidAmerica St. Louis Airport.
McKinney, Texas
McKinney National Airport.
Melbourne, Florida
Orlando Melbourne International Airport.
Mesa, Arizona
Phoenix-Mesa Gateway Airport.
Midland, Texas
Midland International Air and Space Port.
Morristown, New Jersey
Morristown Municipal Airport.
Moses Lake, Washington
Grant County International Airport.
Myrtle Beach, South Carolina
Myrtle Beach International Airport.
Naples, Florida
Naples Municipal Airport.
New Windsor, New York
New York Stewart International Airport.
Ontario, California
Ontario International Airport.
Orlando, Florida
Orlando Executive Airport.
Palm Springs, California
Palm Springs International Airport.
Plattsburgh, New York
Plattsburgh International Airport.
Rochester, Minnesota
Rochester International Airport.
Rogers, Arkansas
Rogers Executive Airport—Carter Field.
San Bernardino, California
San Bernardino International Airport.
San Antonio, Texas
Kelly Field Annex.
Santa Ana, California
John Wayne Airport.
Sarasota, Florida
Sarasota/Bradenton International Airport.
Savoy, Illinois
University of Illinois-Willard Airport.
Scottsdale, Arizona
Scottsdale Airport.
Sheboygan Falls, Wisconsin
Sheboygan County Memorial Airport.
South Bend, Indiana
South Bend International Airport.
St. Augustine, Florida
Northeast Florida Regional Airport.
Stuart, Florida
Witham Field Airport.
Sugar Land, Texas
Sugar Land Regional Airport.
Trenton, New Jersey
Trenton Mercer Airport.
Van Nuys, California
Van Nuys Airport.
Victorville, California
Southern California Logistics Airport.
Waterford, Michigan
Oakland County International Airport.
Waukegan, Illinois
Waukegan National Airport.
West Chicago, Illinois
Dupage County Airport.
Wheeling, Illinois
Chicago Executive Airport.
Yoder, Indiana
Fort Wayne International Airport.
Ypsilanti, Michigan
Willow Run Airport.
(c)
Withdrawal of designation.
The designation as a user fee airport shall be withdrawn under either of the following circumstances:
(1) If either Customs or the airport authority gives 120 days written notice of termination to the other party; or
(2) If any amounts due to be paid to Customs are not paid on a timely basis.
[T.D. 92-90, 57 FR 43397, Sept. 21, 1992]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 122.15, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Subpart C—Private Aircraft
§ 122.21
Application.
This subpart applies to all private aircraft as defined in § 122.1(h). No other provisions of this part apply to private aircraft, except where stated in this subpart.
§ 122.22
Electronic manifest requirement for all individuals onboard private aircraft arriving in and departing from the United States; notice of arrival and departure information.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
Departure.
“Departure” means the point at which the aircraft is airborne and the aircraft is en route directly to its destination.
Departure Information.
“Departure Information” refers to the data elements that are required to be electronically submitted to CBP pursuant to paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
Pilot.
“Pilot” means the individual(s) responsible for operation of an aircraft while in flight.
Travel Document.
“Travel Document” means U.S. Department of Homeland Security approved travel documents.
United States.
“United States” means the continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, Guam and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
(b)
Electronic manifest requirement for all individuals onboard private aircraft arriving in the U.S.; notice of arrival
—(1)
General requirement.
The private aircraft pilot is responsible for ensuring the notice of arrival and manifest information regarding each individual onboard the aircraft are transmitted to CBP. The pilot is responsible for the submission, accuracy, correctness, timeliness, and completeness of the submitted information, but may authorize another party to submit the information on their behalf. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(7) of this section, all data must be transmitted to CBP by means of an electronic data interchange system approved by CBP and must set forth the information specified in this section. All data pertaining to the notice of arrival for the
aircraft and the manifest data regarding each individual onboard the aircraft must be transmitted at the same time via an electronic data interchange system approved by CBP.
(2)
Time for submission.
The private aircraft pilot is responsible for ensuring that the information specified in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section is transmitted to CBP:
(i) For flights originally destined for the United States, any time prior to departure of the aircraft, but no later than 60 minutes prior to departure of the aircraft from the foreign port or place; or
(ii) For flights not originally destined to the United States, but diverted to a U.S. port due to an emergency, no later than 30 minutes prior to arrival; in cases of non-compliance, CBP will take into consideration that the carrier was not equipped to make the transmission and the circumstances of the emergency situation.
(3)
Manifest data required.
For private aircraft arriving in the United States the following identifying information for each individual onboard the aircraft must be submitted:
(i) Full name (last, first, and, if available, middle);
(ii) Date of birth;
(iii) Gender (F = female; M = male);
(iv) Citizenship;
(v) Country of residence;
(vi) Status on board the aircraft;
(vii) DHS-Approved travel document type (e.g. passport; alien registration card, etc.);
(viii) DHS-Approved travel document number, if a DHS-approved travel document is required;
(ix) DHS-Approved travel document country of issuance; if a DHS-approved travel document is required;
(x) DHS-Approved travel document expiration date, where applicable;
(xi) Alien registration number, where applicable;
(xii) Address while in the United States (number and street, city, state, and zip code). This information is required for all travelers including crew onboard the aircraft.
(4)
Notice of arrival.
The advance notice of arrival must include the following information about the aircraft and where applicable, the pilot:
(i) Aircraft tail number;
(ii) Type of Aircraft;
(iii) Call sign (if available);
(iv) CBP issued decal number (if available);
(v) Place of last departure (ICAO airport code, when available);
(vi) Date of aircraft arrival;
(vii) Estimated time of arrival;
(viii) Estimated time and location of crossing U.S. border/coastline;
(ix) Name of intended U.S. airport of first landing (as listed in § 122.24 if applicable, unless an exemption has been granted under § 122.25, or the aircraft was inspected by CBP Officers in the U.S. Virgin Islands);
(x) Owner/Lessees name (if individual: Last, first, and, if available, middle; or business entity name, if applicable);
(xi) Owner/Lessees address (number and street, city, state, zip/postal code, country, telephone number, fax number, and email address);
(xii) Pilot/Private aircraft pilot name (last, first, middle, if available);
(xiii) Pilot license number;
(xiv) Pilot street address (number and street, city, state, zip/postal code, country, telephone number, fax number, and email address);
(xv) Country of issuance of pilot's license;
(xvi) Operator name (for individuals: last, first, and if available, middle; or business entity name, if applicable);
(xvii) Operator street address (number and street, city, state, zip code, country, telephone number, fax number, and e-mail address);
(xviii) Aircraft color(s);
(xix) Complete Itinerary (foreign airports landed at within past 24 hours prior to landing in United States); and
(xx) 24-hour Emergency point of contact (e.g., broker, dispatcher, repair shop, or other third party contact or individual who is knowledgeable about this particular flight) name (first, last, middle, if available) and phone number.
(5)
Reliable facilities.
When reliable means for giving notice are not available (for example, when departure is from a remote place) a landing must be made at a foreign place where notice
can be sent prior to coming into the United States.
(6)
Permission to land.
Prior to departure from the foreign port or place, the pilot of a private aircraft must receive a message from DHS approving landing within the United States, and follow any instructions contained therein prior to departure. Once DHS has approved departure, and the pilot has executed all instructions issued by DHS, the aircraft is free to depart with the intent of landing at the designated U.S. port of entry.
(7)
Changes to manifest.
The private aircraft pilot is obligated to make necessary changes to the arrival manifest after transmission of the manifest to CBP. If changes to an already transmitted manifest are necessary, an updated and amended manifest must be resubmitted to CBP. Only amendments regarding flight cancellation, expected time of arrival (ETA) or changes in arrival location, to an already transmitted manifest may be submitted telephonically, by radio, or through existing processes and procedures. On a limited case-by-case basis, CBP may permit a pilot to submit or update notice of arrival and arrival/departure manifest information telephonically when unforeseen circumstances preclude submission of the information via eAPIS. Under such circumstances, CBP will manually enter the notice of arrival and arrival/departure manifest information provided by the pilot and the pilot is required to wait for CBP screening and approval to depart. Changes in ETA and arrival location must be coordinated with CBP at the new arrival location to ensure that resources are available to inspect the arriving aircraft. If a subsequent manifest is submitted less than 60 minutes prior to departure to the United States, the private aircraft pilot must receive approval from CBP for the amended manifest containing added passenger information and/or changes to information that were submitted regarding the aircraft and all individuals onboard the aircraft, before the aircraft is allowed to depart the foreign location, or the aircraft may be, as appropriate, diverted from arriving in the United States, or denied permission to land in the United States. If a subsequent, amended manifest is submitted by the pilot, any approval to depart the foreign port or location previously granted by CBP as a result of the original manifest's submission is invalid.
(8)
Pilot responsibility for comparing information collected with travel document.
The pilot collecting the information described in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section is responsible for comparing the travel document presented by each individual to be transported onboard the aircraft with the travel document information he or she is transmitting to CBP in accordance with this section in order to ensure that the information is correct, the document appears to be valid for travel purposes, and the individual is the person to whom the travel document was issued.
(c)
Electronic manifest requirement for all individuals onboard private aircraft departing from the United States; departure information
—(1)
General requirement.
The private aircraft pilot is responsible for ensuring that information regarding private aircraft departing the United States, and manifest data for all individuals onboard the aircraft is timely transmitted to CBP. The pilot is responsible for the accuracy, correctness, timeliness, and completeness of the submitted information, but may authorize another party to submit the information on their behalf. Data must be transmitted to CBP by means of an electronic data interchange system approved by CBP, and must set forth the information specified in paragraph (c)(3) and (c)(4) of this section. All data pertaining to the aircraft, and all individuals onboard the aircraft must be transmitted at the same time. On a limited case-by-case basis, CBP may permit a pilot to submit or update notice of arrival and arrival/departure manifest information telephonically to CBP when unforeseen circumstances preclude submission of the information via eAPIS. Under such circumstances, CBP will manually enter the notice of arrival and arrival/departure manifest information provided by the pilot and the pilot is required to wait for CBP screening and approval to depart.
(2)
Time for submission.
The private aircraft pilot must transmit the electronic data required under paragraphs
(c)(3) and (c)(4) of this section to CBP any time prior to departing the United States, but no later than 60 minutes prior to departing the United States.
(3)
Manifest data required.
For private aircraft departing the United States the following identifying information for each individual onboard the aircraft must be submitted:
(i) Full name (last, first, and, if available, middle);
(ii) Date of birth;
(iii) Gender (F = female; M = male);
(iv) Citizenship;
(v) Country of residence;
(vi) Status on board the aircraft;
(vii) DHS-Approved travel document type (e.g. passport; alien registration card, etc.);
(viii) DHS-Approved travel document number;
(ix) DHS-Approved travel document country of issuance, if a DHS-Approved travel document is required;
(x) DHS-approved travel document expiration date, where applicable;
(xi) Alien registration number, where applicable;
(xii) Address while in the United States (number and street, city, state, and zip/postal code). This information is required for all travelers including crew onboard the aircraft.
(4)
Notice of Departure information.
For private aircraft and pilots departing the United States, the following departure information must be submitted by the pilot:
(i) Aircraft tail number;
(ii) Type of Aircraft;
(iii) Call sign (if available);
(iv) CBP issued decal number (if available);
(v) Place of last departure (ICAO airport code, when available);
(vi) Date of aircraft departure;
(vii) Estimated time of departure;
(viii) Estimated time and location of crossing U.S. border/coastline;
(ix) Name of intended foreign airport of first landing (ICAO airport code, when available);
(x) Owner/Lessees name (if individual: last, first, and, if available, middle; or business entity name if applicable);
(xi) Owner/Lessees street address (number and street, city, state, zip/postal code, country, telephone number, fax number, and email address);
(xii) Pilot/Private aircraft pilot name (last, first and, if available, middle);
(xiii) Pilot license number;
(xiv) Pilot street address (number and street, city, state, zip/postal code, country, telephone number, fax number, and email address);
(xv) Country of issuance of pilot's license;
(xvi) Operator name (if individual: last, first, and if available, middle; or business entity name, if applicable);
(xvii) Operator street address (number and street, city, state, zip/postal code, country, telephone number, fax number, and email address);
(xviii) 24-hour Emergency point of contact (e.g., broker, dispatcher, repair shop, or other third party contact, or individual who is knowledgeable about this particular flight) name (last, first, middle, if available) and phone number;
(xix) Aircraft color(s); and
(xx) Complete itinerary (intended foreign airport destinations for 24 hours following departure).
(5)
Permission to depart.
Prior to departure for a foreign port or place, the pilot of a private aircraft must receive a message from DHS approving departure from the United States and follow any instructions contained therein. Once DHS has approved departure, and the pilot has executed all instructions issued by DHS, the aircraft is free to depart.
(6)
Changes to manifest.
If any of the data elements change after the manifest is transmitted, the private aircraft pilot must update the manifest and resubmit the amended manifest to CBP. Only amendments regarding flight cancellation, expected time of departure or changes in departure location, to an already transmitted manifest may be submitted telephonically, by radio, or through existing processes and procedures. If an amended manifest is submitted less than 60 minutes prior to departure, the private aircraft pilot must receive approval from CBP for the amended manifest containing added passenger information and/or changes to information that were submitted regarding the aircraft before the aircraft is allowed to depart the U.S. location, or the aircraft may be denied clearance
to depart from the United States. If a subsequent amended manifest is submitted by the pilot, any clearance previously granted by CBP as a result of the original manifest's submission is invalid.
(7)
Pilot responsibility for comparing information collected with travel document.
The pilot collecting the information described in paragraphs (c)(3) and (c)(4) of this section is responsible for comparing the travel document presented by each individual to be transported onboard the aircraft with the travel document information he or she is transmitting to CBP in accordance with this section in order to ensure that the information is correct, the document appears to be valid for travel purposes, and the individual is the person to whom the travel document was issued.
[CBP Dec. 08-43, 73 FR 68310, Nov. 18, 2008]
§ 122.23
Certain aircraft arriving from areas south of the U.S.
(a)
Application.
(1) This section sets forth particular requirements for certain aircraft arriving from south of the United States. This section is applicable to all aircraft except:
(i) Public aircraft;
(ii) Those aircraft operated on a regularly published schedule, pursuant to a certificate of public convenience and necessity or foreign aircraft permit issued by the Department of Transportation, authorizing interstate, overseas air transportation; and
(iii) Those aircraft with a seating capacity of more than 30 passenges or a maximum payload capacity of more than 7,500 pounds which are engaged in air transportation for compensation or hire on demand. (See 49 U.S.C. App. 1372 and 14 CFR part 298).
(2) The term “place” as used in this section means anywhere outside of the inner boundary of the Atlantic (Coastal) Air Defense Identification Zone (ADIZ) south of 30 degrees north latitude, anywhere outside of the inner boundary of the Gulf of Mexico (Coastal) ADIZ, or anywhere outside of the inner boundary of the Pacific (Coastal) ADIZ south of 33 degrees north latitude.
(b)
Notice of arrival.
All aircraft to which this section applies arriving in the Continental United States via the U.S./Mexican border or the Pacific Coast from a foreign place in the Western Hemisphere south of 33 degrees north latitude, or from the Gulf of Mexico and Atlantic Coasts from a place in the Western Hemisphere south of 30 degrees north latitude, from any place in Mexico, from the U.S. Virgin Islands, or [notwithstanding the definition of “United States” in § 122.1(l)] from Puerto Rico, must furnish a notice of intended arrival. Private aircraft must transmit an advance notice of arrival as set forth in § 122.22 of this part. Other than private aircraft, all aircraft to which this section applies must communicate to CBP notice of arrival at least one hour before crossing the U.S. coastline. Such notice must be communicated to CBP by telephone, radio, other method or the Federal Aviation Administration in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Contents of notice.
The advance notice of arrival shall include the following:
(1) Aircraft registration number;
(2) Name of aircraft commander;
(3) Number of U.S. citizen passengers;
(4) Number of alien passengers;
(5) Place of last departure;
(6) Estimated time and location of crossing U.S. border/coastline;
(7) Estimated time of arrival;
(8) Name of intended U.S. airport of first landing, as listed in § 122.24, unless an exemption has been granted under § 122.25, or the aircraft has not landed in foreign territory or is arriving directly from Puerto Rico, or the aircraft was inspected by Customs officers in the U.S. Virgin Islands.
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by CBP Dec. 08-43, 73 FR 68312, Nov. 18, 2008]
§ 122.24
Landing requirements for certain aircraft arriving from areas south of U.S.
(a)
In general.
Certain aircraft arriving from areas south of the United States that are subject to § 122.23 are required to furnish a notice of intended arrival in compliance with § 122.23. Subject aircraft must land for CBP processing at the nearest designated airport to the border or coastline crossing
point as listed under paragraph (b) unless exempted from this requirement in accordance with § 122.25. In addition to the requirements of this section, pilots of aircraft to which § 122.23 is applicable must comply with all other landing and notice of arrival requirements. This requirement shall not apply to those aircraft which have not landed in foreign territory or are arriving directly from Puerto Rico, if the aircraft was inspected by CBP officers in the U.S. Virgin Islands, or otherwise precleared by CBP officers at designated preclearance locations.
(b)
List of designated airports.
Location
Name
Beaumont, Tex
Jefferson County Airport.
Brownsville, Tex
Brownsville International Airport.
Calexico, Calif
Calexico International Airport.
Corpus Christi, Tex
Corpus Christi International Airport.
Del Rio, Tex
Del Rio International Airport.
Douglas, Ariz
Bisbee-Douglas International Airport.
Douglas, Ariz
Douglas Municipal Airport.
Eagle Pass, Tex
Eagle Pass Municipal Airport.
El Paso, Tex
El Paso International Airport.
Fort Lauderdale, Fla
Fort Lauderdale Executive Airport.
Fort Lauderdale, Fla
Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport.
Fort Pierce, Fla
St. Lucie County Airport.
Houston, Tex
William P. Hobby Airport.
Key West, Fla
Key West International Airport.
Laredo, Tex
Laredo International Airport.
McAllen, Tex
Miller International Airport.
Miami, Fla
Miami International Airport.
Miami, Fla
Opa-Locka Airport.
Miami, Fla
Tamiami Airport.
Midland, TX
Midland International Airport.
New Orleans, La
New Orleans International Airport (Moissant Field).
New Orleans, La
New Orleans Lakefront Airport.
Nogales, Ariz
Nogales International Airport.
Presidio, Tex
Presidio-Lely International Airport.
San Antonio Tex
San Antonio International Airport.
San Diego, Calif
Brown Field.
Santa Teresa, N. Mex
Santa Teresa Airport.
Tampa, Fla
Tampa International Airport.
Tucson, Ariz
Tucson International Airport.
West Palm Beach, Fla
Palm Beach International Airport.
Wilmington, NC
New Hanover County Airport
Yuma, Ariz
Yuma International Airport.
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by 89-2, Dec. 21, 1988; T.D. 89-2, 53 FR 51272, Dec. 21, 1988; T.D. 89-44, 54 FR 14214, Apr. 10, 1989; T.D. 93-67, 58 FR 44444, Aug. 23, 1993; T.D. 94-34, 59 FR 16122, Apr. 6, 1994; T.D. 97-35, 62 FR 24815, May 7, 1997; CBP Dec. 08-01, 73 FR 12262, Mar. 7, 2008; CBP Dec. 08-43, 73 FR 68312, Nov. 18, 2008]
§ 122.25
Exemption from special landing requirements.
(a)
Request.
Any company or individual that has operational control over an aircraft required to give advance notice of arrival under § 122.23 may request an exemption from the landing requirements in § 122.24. Single overflight exemptions may be granted to entities involved in air ambulance type operations when emergency situations arise and in cases involving the non-emergency transport of persons seeking medical treatment in the U.S. All approvals of requests for overflight exemptions and the granting of authority to be exempted from the landing requirements are at the discretion of the port director. Exemptions may allow aircraft to land at any airport in the U.S. staffed by Customs. Aircraft traveling under an exemption shall continue to follow advance notice and general landing rights requirements.
(b)
Procedure.
An exemption request shall be made to the port director at the airport at which the majority of Customs overflight processing is desired by the applicant. Except for air ambulance operations and other flights involving the non-emergency transport of persons seeking medical treatment in the U.S., the requests shall be signed by an officer of the company or by the requesting individual and be notarized or witnessed by a Customs officer. The requests shall be submitted:
(1) At least 30 days before the anticipated first arrival, if the request is for an exemption covering a number of flights over a period of one year, or
(2) At least 15 days before the anticipated arrival, if the request is for a single flight, or
(3) In cases involving air ambulance operations when emergency situations arise and other flights involving the non-emergency transport of persons seeking medical treatment in the U.S., if time permits, at least 24 hours prior to departure. If this cannot be accomplished, Customs will allow receipt of the overflight exemption application up to departure time. In cases of extreme medical emergency, Customs will accept overflight exemption requests in flight through a Federal Aviation Administration Flight Service Station.
(c)
Content of request.
All requests for exemption from special landing requirements, with the exception of those for air ambulance operations and other flights involving the non-emergency transport of persons seeking medical treatment in the U.S., shall include the following information. Requests for exemptions for air ambulance operations and other flights involving the non-emergency transport of persons for medical treatment in the U.S. shall include the following information except for paragraphs (c)(5) and (c)(6) of this section:
(1) Aircraft registration number(s) and manufacturer's serial number(s) for all aircraft owned or operated by the applicant that will be utilizing the overflight exemption;
(2) Identification information for each aircraft including class, manufacturer, type, number, color scheme, and type of engine (e.g., turbojet, turbofan, turboprop, reciprocating, helicopter, etc.);
(3) A statement that the aircraft is equipped with a functioning mode C (altitude reporting) transponder which will be in use during overflight, that the overflights will be made in accord with instrument flight rules (IFR), and that the overflights will be made at altitudes above 12,500 feet mean sea level (unless otherwise instructed by Federal Aviation Administration controllers);
(4) Name and address of the applicant operating the aircraft, if the applicant is a business entity, the address of the headquarters of the business (include state of incorporation if applicable), and the names, addresses, Social Security numbers (if available), and dates of birth of the company officer or individual signing the application. If the aircraft is operated under a lease, include the name, address, Social Security number (if available), and date of birth of the owner if an individual, or the address of the headquarters of the business (include state of incorporation if applicable), and the names, addresses, Social Security numbers, and dates of birth of the officers of the business;
(5) Individual, signed applications from each usual or anticipated pilot or crewmember for all aircraft for which an overflight exemption is sought stating name, address, Social Security number (if available), Federal Aviation Administration certificate number (if applicable), and place and date of birth;
(6) A statement from the individual signing the application that the pilot(s) and crewmember(s) responding to paragraph (c)(5) of this section are those intended to conduct overflights, and that to the best of the individual's knowledge, the information supplied in response to paragraph (c)(5) of this section is accurate;
(7) Names, addresses, Social Security numbers (if applicable), and dates of birth for all usual or anticipated passengers. An approved passenger must be on board to utilize the overflight exemptions.

# Note:
Where the Social Security number is requested, furnishing of the SSN is voluntary. The authority to collect the SSN is 19 U.S.C. 66, 1433, 1459 and 1624. The primary purpose for requesting the SSN is to assist in ascertaining the identity of the individual so as to assure that only law-abiding persons will be granted permission to land at interior airports in the U.S. without first landing at one of the airports designated in § 122.24. The SSN will be made available to Customs personnel on a need-to-know basis. Failure to provide the SSN may result in a delay in processing of the application;
(8) Description of the usual or anticipated baggage or cargo if known, or the actual baggage or cargo;
(9) Description of the applicant's usual business activity;
(10) Name(s) of the airport(s) of intended first landing in the U.S. Actual overflights will only be permitted to specific approved airports;
(11) Foreign place or places from which flight(s) will usually originate; and
(12) Reasons for request for overflight exemption.
(d)
Procedure following exemption.
(1) If an aircraft subject to § 122.23 is granted an exemption from the landing requirements as provided in this section, the aircraft commander shall notify Customs at least 60 minutes before:
(i) Crossing into the U.S. over a point on the Pacific Coast north of 33 degrees north latitude; or
(ii) Crossing into the U.S. over a point of the Gulf of Mexico or Atlantic Coast north of 30 degrees north latitude; or
(iii) Crossing into the U.S. over the Southwestern land border (defined as the U.S.-Mexican border between Brownsville, Texas, and San Diego, California). Southwestern land border crossings must be made while flying in Federal Aviation Administration published airways.
(2) The notice shall be given to a designated airport specified in § 122.24. The notice may be furnished directly to Customs by telephone, radio or other means, or may be furnished through the Federal Aviation Administration to Customs. If notice is furnished pursuant to this paragraph, notice pursuant to §§ 122.23 and 122.24 is unnecessary.
(3) All overflights must be conducted pursuant to an instrument flight plan filed with the Federal Aviation Administration or equivalent foreign aviation authority prior to the commencement of the overflight.
(4) The owner or aircraft commander of an aircraft subject to § 122.23 granted an exemption from the landing requirements must:
(i) Notify Customs of a change of Federal Aviation Administration or other (foreign) registration number for the aircraft;
(ii) Notify Customs of the sale, theft, modification or destruction of the aircraft;
(iii) Notify Customs of changes of usual or anticipated pilots or crewmembers as specified in paragraph (c)(5) of this section. Every pilot and crewmember participating in an overflight must have prior Customs approval either through initial application and approval, or through a supplemental application submitted by the new pilot or crewmember and approved by Customs before commencement of the pilot's or crewmember's first overflight.
(iv) Request permission from Customs to conduct an overflight to an airport not listed in the initial overflight application as specified in paragraph (c)(10) of this section. The request must be directed to the port director who approved the initial request for an overflight exemption.
(v) Retain copies of the initial request for an overflight exemption, all supplemental applications from pilots or crewmembers, and all requests for additional landing privileges as well as a copy of the letter from Customs approving each of these requests. The copies must be carried on board any aircraft during the conduct of an overflight.
(5) The notification specified in paragraph (d)(4) of this section must be given to Customs within 5 working days of the change, sale, theft, modification, or destruction, or before a flight for which there is an exemption, whichever occurs earlier.
(e)
Inspection of aircraft having or requesting overflight exemption.
Applicants for overflight exemptions must agree to make the subject aircraft available for inspection by Customs to determine if the aircraft is capable of meeting Customs requirements for the proper conduct of an overflight. Inspections may be conducted during the review of an initial application or at any time during the term of an overflight exemption.
[T.D. 89-24, 53 FR 5429, Feb. 3, 1989, as amended by T.D. 89-24, 53 FR 6884, 6988, Feb. 15, 1989; CBP Dec. 08-43, 73 FR 68312, Nov. 18, 2008]
§ 122.26
Entry and clearance.
Private aircraft, as defined in § 122.1(h), arriving in the United States as defined in § 122.22, are not required to formally enter. No later than 60 minutes prior to departure from the United States as defined in § 122.22, to a foreign location, manifest data for each individual onboard a private aircraft and departure information must be submitted as set forth in § 122.22(c). Private aircraft must not depart the United States to travel to a foreign location until CBP confirms receipt of the appropriate manifest and departure information as set forth in § 122.22(c), and grants electronic clearance via electronic mail or telephone.
[CBP Dec. 08-43, 73 FR 68312, Nov. 18, 2008]
§ 122.27
Documents required.
(a)
Crewmembers and passengers.
Crewmembers and passengers on a private aircraft arriving in the U.S. shall make baggage declarations as set forth in part 148 of this chapter. An oral declaration of articles acquired in foreign
areas shall be made, unless a written declaration on Customs Form 6059-B is found necessary by inspecting officers.
(b)
Cargo.
(1) On arrival, cargo and unaccompanied baggage not carried for hire aboard a private aircraft may be listed on a baggage declaration on Customs Form 6059-B, and shall be entered. If the cargo or unaccompanied baggage is not listed on a baggage declaration, it shall be entered in the same manner as cargo carried for hire into the U.S.
(2) On departure, when a private aircraft leaves the U.S. carrying cargo not for hire, the Bureau of Census (15 CFR part 30) and the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR parts 730 through 774) and any other applicable export laws shall be followed. A foreign landing certificate or certified copy of a foreign Customs entry is required as proof of exportation if the cargo includes:
(i) Merchandise valued at more than $500.00; or
(ii) More than one case of alcoholic beverages withdrawn from a Customs bonded warehouse or otherwise in bond for direct exportation by private aircraft.
A foreign landing certificate, when required, shall be produced within six months from the date of exportation and shall be signed by a revenue officer of the foreign country to which the merchandise is exported, unless it is shown that the country has no Customs administration, in which case the certificate may be signed by the consignee or by the vessel's agent at the place of landing.
(c)
Pilot certificate/license, certificate of registration
—(1)
Pilot certificate/license.
A commander of a private aircraft arriving in the U.S. must present for inspection a valid pilot certificate/license, medical certificate, authorization, or license held by that person, when presentation for inspection is requested by a Customs officer.
(2)
Certificate of registration.
A valid certificate of registration for private aircraft which are U.S.-registered must also be presented upon arrival in the U.S., when presentation for inspection is requested by a Customs officer. A so-called “pink slip” is a duplicate copy of the Aircraft Registration Application (FAA Form AC 8050-1), and does not constitute a valid certificate of registration authorizing travel internationally.
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by T.D. 91-61, 56 FR 32086, July 15, 1991; CBP Dec. 04-28, 69 FR 52599, Aug. 27, 2004]
§ 122.28
Private aircraft taken abroad by U.S. residents.
An aircraft belonging to a resident of the U.S. which is taken to a foreign area for non-commercial purposes and then returned to the U.S. by the resident shall be admitted under the conditions and procedures set forth in § 148.32 of this chapter. Repairs made abroad, and accessories purchased abroad shall be included in the baggage declaration as required by § 148.32(c), and may be subject to entry and payment of duty as provided in § 148.32.
§ 122.29
Arrival fee and overtime services.
Private aircraft may be subject to the payment of an arrival fee for services provided as set forth in § 24.22 of this chapter. For the procedures to be followed in requesting overtime services in connection with the arrival of private aircraft, see § 24.16 of this chapter.
[T.D. 93-85, 58 FR 54286, Oct. 21, 1993]
§ 122.30
Other Customs laws and regulations.
Sections 122.2 and 122.161 apply to private aircraft.

# Subpart D—Landing Requirements
§ 122.31
Notice of arrival.
(a)
Application.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all aircraft entering the United States from a foreign area must give advance notice of arrival.
(b)
Exceptions for scheduled aircraft of a scheduled airline.
Advance notice is not required for aircraft of a scheduled airline arriving under a regular schedule. The regular schedule must have been filed with the port director for the airport where the first landing is made.
(c)
Giving notice of arrival
—(1)
Procedure
—(i)
Private aircraft.
The pilot of a
private aircraft must give advance notice of arrival in accordance with § 122.22 of this part.
(ii) [Reserved]
(iii)
Certain aircraft arriving from areas south of the United States.
Certain aircraft arriving from areas south of the United States must follow the advance notice of arrival procedures set forth in § 122.23 of this part.
(iv)
Other aircraft.
The commander of an aircraft not otherwise covered by paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(iii) of this section must give advance notice of arrival as set forth in paragraph (d) of this section. Notice must be given to the port director at the place of first landing, either:
(A) Directly by radio, telephone, or other method; or
(B) Through Federal Aviation Administration flight notification procedure (see International Flight Information Manual, Federal Aviation Administration).
(2)
Reliable facilities.
When reliable means for giving notice are not available (for example, when departure is from a remote place) a departure must be made at a place where notice can be sent prior to coming into the U.S.
(d)
Contents of notice.
The advance notice of arrival required by aircraft covered in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section must include the following information:
(1) Type of aircraft and registration number;
(2) Name (last, first, middle, if available) of aircraft commander;
(3) Place of last foreign departure;
(4) International airport of intended landing or other place at which landing has been authorized by CBP;
(5) Number of alien passengers;
(6) Number of citizen passengers; and
(7) Estimated time of arrival.
(e)
Time of notice.
Notice of arrival as required pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section must be furnished far enough in advance to allow inspecting CBP officers to reach the place of first landing of the aircraft prior to the aircraft's arrival.
(f)
Notice of other Federal agencies.
When advance notice is received, the port director will inform any other concerned Federal agency.
[CBP Dec. 08-43, 73 FR 68312, Nov. 18, 2008, as amended by CBP Dec. 16-06, 81 FR 14953, Mar. 21, 2016]
§ 122.32
Aircraft required to land.
(a) Any aircraft coming into the U.S., from an area outside of the U.S., is required to land, unless it is denied permission to land in the U.S. by CBP pursuant to § 122.12(c), or is exempted from landing by the Federal Aviation Administration.
(b)
Conditional permission to land.
CBP has the authority to limit the locations where aircraft entering the U.S. from a foreign area may land. As such, aircraft must land at the airport designated in their APIS transmission unless instructed otherwise by CBP or changes to the airport designation are required for aircraft and/or airspace safety as directed by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) flight services.
[CBP Dec. 08-43, 73 FR 68313, Nov. 18, 2008]
§ 122.33
Place of first landing.
(a) The first landing of an aircraft entering the United States from a foreign area will be:
(1) At a designated international airport (see § 122.13), provided that permission to land has not been denied pursuant to § 122.12(c);
(2) At a landing rights airport if permission to land has been granted (see § 122.14); or
(3) At a designated user fee airport if permission to land has been granted (see § 122.15).
(b) Permission to land at a landing rights airport or user fee airport is not required for an emergency or forced landing (see § 122.35).
[T.D. 92-90, 57 FR 43397, Sept. 21, 1992, as amended by CBP Dec. 03-32, 68 FR 68170, Dec. 5, 2003]
§ 122.35
Emergency or forced landing.
(a)
Application.
This section applies to emergency or forced landings made by aircraft when necessary for safety or the preservation of life or health, when such aircraft are:
(1) Travelling from airport to airport in the U.S. under a permit to proceed
(see §§ 122.52, 122.54 and 122.83(d)), or a Customs Form 7509 (see § 122.113); or
(2) Coming into the U.S. from a foreign area.
(b)
Notice.
When an emergency or forced landing is made, notice shall be given:
(1) To the Customs Service at the intended place of first landing, nearest international airport, or nearest port of entry, as soon as possible;
(2) By the aircraft commander, other person in charge, or aircraft owner, who shall make a full report of the flight and the emergency or forced landing.
(c)
Passengers and crewmembers.
The aircraft commander or other person in charge shall keep all passengers and crewmembers in a separate place at the landing area until Customs officers arrive. Passengers and crewmembers may be removed if necessary for safety, or for the purpose of contacting Customs.
(d)
Merchandise and baggage.
The aircraft commander or other person in charge shall keep all merchandise and baggage together and unopened at the landing area until Customs officers arrive. The merchandise and baggage may be removed for safety or to protect property.
(e)
Mail.
Mail may be removed from the aircraft, but shall be delivered at once to an officer or employee of the Postal Service.
§ 122.36
Responsibility of aircraft commander.
If an aircraft lands in the U.S. and Customs officers have not arrived, the aircraft commander shall hold the aircraft, and any merchandise or baggage on the aircraft for inspection. Passengers and crewmembers shall be kept in a separate place until Customs officers authorize their departure.
§ 122.37
Precleared aircraft.
(a)
Application.
This section applies when aircraft carrying crew, passengers and baggage, or merchandise which has been precleared pursuant to § 148.22 of this chapter at a location listed in § 101.5 of this chapter and makes an unscheduled or unintended landing at an airport in the U.S.
(b)
Notice.
The aircraft commander or agent shall give written notice to the Customs office at:
(1) The intended place of unlading; and
(2) The place of preclearance.
(c)
Time of notice.
Notice shall be given within 7 days of the unscheduled or unintended landing unless other arrangements have been made in advance between the carrier and the port director.
§ 122.38
Permit and special license to unlade and lade.
(a)
Applicability.
Before any passengers, baggage, or merchandise may be unladen or laden aboard on arrival or departure of an aircraft subject to these regulations, a permit and/or special license to unlade or lade shall be obtained from Customs.
(1)
Permit to unlade or lade.
A permit is required to obtain Customs supervision of unlading and lading during official Customs duty hours.
(2)
Special license to unlade or lade.
A special license is required to obtain Customs supervision of unlading and lading at any time not within official Customs duty hours (generally, during overtime hours, Sundays or holidays).
(b)
Authorization required.
A permit or special license shall be required for each arrival and departure unless a term permit or special license has been granted. No permit or special license shall be issued unless the carrier complies with the terminal facilities and employee list requirements of § 4.30 of this chapter.
(c)
Term permit or special license.
A term permit or special license may be issued covering all arrivals and departures during a period of up to one year, providing local arrangements have been made to notify Customs before services are needed. The notice shall specify the kinds of services requested, and the exact times they will be needed. No term permit or special license shall be issued, and any term permit or special license already issued shall be revoked, unless the carrier complies with the terminal facilities and employee list requirements of § 4.30 of this chapter. In addition, a term permit or special license to unlade or lade already issued will not be applicable to
any inbound or outbound flight, with respect to which Customs and Border Protection (CBP) has not received the advance electronic cargo information required, respectively, under § 122.48a or § 192.14(b)(1)(ii) of this chapter (see paragraph (g) of this section).
(d)
Procedures.
The application for a permit and special license to unlade or lade shall be made by the owner, operator, or agent for an aircraft on Customs Form 3171, and shall be submitted to the port director for the airport where the unlading and lading will take place. The application shall be accompanied by a bond on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in subpart G of part 113 of this chapter, or a cash deposit, unless this requirement is waived under paragraph (e) of this section.
(e)
Waiver of bond.
To insure prompt and orderly clearance of the aircraft, passengers, baggage, or merchandise, the port director may waive the requirement under paragraph (d) of this section that either a bond or a cash deposit be made, if he is convinced the revenue is protected and that all Customs requirements are satisfied.
(f)
Automatic renewal of term permit or special license.
Automatic renewal of a term permit or special license may be requested by the owner, operator, or agent for an aircraft when a bond on Customs Form 301 containing the appropriate bond conditions set forth in subpart G of part 113 of this chapter is on file. The request shall be for successive annual periods which conform to the automatic renewal periods of the bond. An application will be approved by the port director unless specific reasons exist for denial. If a request for automatic renewal is not approved, the port director shall notify the requestor, and shall state the reasons for the denial. To apply for automatic renewal, item 10 on Customs Form 3171 shall be changed by adding the following words after the period of time indicated: “And automatic annual renewal thereof for so long as the bond is renewed and remains in effect.”
(g)
Advance receipt of electronic cargo information.
The CBP will not issue a permit to unlade or lade cargo upon arrival or departure of an aircraft, and a term permit or special license already issued will not be applicable to any inbound or outbound flight, with respect to which CBP has not received the advance electronic cargo information required, respectively, under § 122.48a or § 192.14 of this chapter. In cases in which CBP does not receive complete cargo information in the time and manner and in the electronic format required by § 122.48a or § 192.14 of this chapter, as applicable, CBP may delay issuance of a permit or special license to unlade or lade cargo, and a term permit or special license to unlade or lade already issued may not apply, until all required information is received. The CBP may also decline to issue a permit or special license to unlade or lade, and a term permit or special license already issued may not apply, with respect to the specific cargo for which advance information is not timely received electronically, as specified in § 122.48a or § 192.14(b)(1)(ii) of this chapter.
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by T.D. 94-2, 58 FR 68526, Dec. 28, 1993; CBP Dec. 03-32, 68 FR 68170, Dec. 5, 2003]

# Subpart E—Aircraft Entry and Entry Documents; Electronic Manifest Requirements for Passengers, Crew Members, and Non-Crew Members Onboard Commercial Aircraft Arriving In, Continuing Within, and Overflying the United States
§ 122.41
Aircraft required to enter.
All aircraft coming into the United States from a foreign area must make entry under this subpart except:
(a) Public and private aircraft;
(b) Aircraft chartered by, and transporting only cargo that is the property of, the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), where the DoD-chartered aircraft is manned entirely by the civilian crew of the air carrier under contract to DoD; and
(c) Aircraft traveling from airport to airport in the U.S. under subpart I, relating to residue cargo procedures.
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by CBP Dec. 03-32, 68 FR 68170, Dec. 5, 2003]
§ 122.42
Aircraft entry.
(a)
By whom.
Entry shall be made by the aircraft commander or an agent.
(b)
Place of entry
—(1)
First landing at international airport.
Entry shall be made at the international airport at which first landing is made.
(2)
First landing at another airport.
If the first landing is not at an international airport pursuant to § 122.14, § 122.15, or § 122.35, the aircraft commander or agent shall make entry at the nearest international airport or port of entry, unless some other place is allowed for the purpose.
(c)
Delivery of forms.
When the aircraft arrives, the aircraft commander or agent shall deliver any required forms to the Customs officer at the place of entry at once.
(d)
Exception to entry requirement.
An aircraft of a scheduled airline which stops only for refueling at the first place of arrival in the United States will not be required to enter provided:
(1) That such aircraft departs within 24 hours after arrival;
(2) No cargo, crew, or passengers are off-loaded; and
(3) Landing rights at that airport as either a regular or alternate landing place shall have been previously secured.
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by CBP Dec. 10-29, 75 FR 52452, Aug. 26, 2010; CBP Dec. 16-06, 81 FR 14953, Mar. 21, 2016]
§ 122.43
General declaration.
(a)
When required.
A general declaration, Customs Form 7507, shall be filed for all aircraft required to enter under § 122.41 (Aircraft required to enter).
(b)
Exception.
Aircraft arriving directly from Canada on a flight beginning in Canada and ending in the U.S. need not file a general declaration to enter. Instead, an air cargo manifest (see § 122.48) may be filed in place of the general declaration, regardless of whether cargo is on board. The air cargo manifest shall state the following:
I certify to the best of my knowledge and belief that this manifest contains an exact and true account of all cargo on board this aircraft.
Signature
(Aircraft Commander or Agent)
(c)
Form.
The general declaration shall be on Customs Form 7507 or on a privately printed form prepared under § 122.5. The form shall contain all required information, unless the information is given in some other manner under subpart E of this part.
§ 122.44
Crew baggage declaration.
If an aircraft enters the U.S. from a foreign area, aircraft crewmembers shall file a crew baggage declaration as provided in subpart G, part 148 of this chapter.
§ 122.45
Crew list.
(a)
When required.
A crew list shall be filed by all aircraft required to enter under § 122.41.
(b)
Exception.
No crew list is required for aircraft arriving directly from Canada on a flight beginning in Canada and ending in the U.S. Instead, the total number of crewmembers may be shown on the general declaration.
(c)
Form.
The crew list shall show the full name (last name, first name, middle initial) of each crewmember, either:
(1) On the general declaration in the column headed “Total Number of Crew”; or
(2) On a separate, clearly marked document.
(d)
Crewmembers returning as passengers.
Crewmembers of any aircraft returning to the U.S. as passengers on a commercial aircraft from a trip on which they were employed as crewmembers shall be listed on the aircraft general declaration or crew list.
§ 122.46
Crew purchase list.
(a)
When required.
A crew purchase list shall be filed with the general declaration for any aircraft required to enter under § 122.41.
(b)
Exception.
A crew purchase list is not required for aircraft arriving directly from Canada on a flight beginning in Canada and ending in the U.S. If a written crew declaration is required for the aircraft under subpart G of part 148 of this chapter (Crewmember Declarations and Exemptions), it shall be attached to the air cargo manifest, along with the number of any written crew declarations.
(c)
Form.
If a crewmember enters articles for which a written crew declaration is not required (see subpart G, part 148 of this chapter), the articles shall be listed next to the crewmember's name on the general declaration, or on the attached crew purchase list. Articles listed on a written crew declaration need not be listed on the crew purchase list if:
(1) The crew declaration is attached to the general declaration, or to the crew list which in turn is attached to the general declaration; and
(2) The statement “Crew purchases as per attached crew declaration” appears on the general declaration or crew list.
§ 122.47
Stores list.
(a)
When required.
A stores list shall be filed for all aircraft required to enter under § 122.41.
(b)
Form.
The aircraft stores shall be listed on the cargo manifest or on a separate list. If the stores are listed on a separate list, the list must be attached to the cargo manifest. The statement “Stores List Attached” must appear on the cargo manifest.
(c)
Contents
—(1)
Required listing.
The stores list shall include all of the following:
(i) Alcoholic beverages, cigars, cigarettes and narcotic drugs, whether domestic or foreign;
(ii) Bonded merchandise arriving as stores;
(iii) Foreign merchandise arriving as stores; and
(iv) Equipment which must be licensed by the Secretary of State (see § 122.48(b)).
(2)
Other articles.
In the case of aircraft of scheduled airlines, other domestic supplies and equipment (if not subject to license) and fuel may be dropped from the stores list if the statement “Domestic supplies and equipment and fuel for immediate flight only, except as noted” appears on the cargo manifest or on the separate stores list. The stores list shall be attached to the cargo manifest.
(d)
Other statutes.
Section 446, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1446), which covers supplies and stores kept on board vessels, applies to aircraft arriving in the U.S. from any foreign area.
§ 122.48
Air cargo manifest.
(a)
When required.
Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, an air cargo manifest need not be filed or retained aboard the aircraft for any aircraft required to enter under § 122.41. However, an air cargo manifest for all cargo on board must otherwise be available for production upon demand. The general declaration must be filed as provided in § 122.43.
(b)
Exception.
A cargo manifest is not required for merchandise, baggage and stores arriving from and departing for a foreign country on the same through flight. Any cargo manifest already on board may be inspected. All articles on board which must be licensed by the Secretary of State shall be listed on the cargo manifest. Company mail shall be listed on the cargo manifest.
(c)
Form.
The air cargo manifest, Customs Form 7509, must contain all required information regarding all cargo on board the aircraft, except that a more complete description of the cargo shipped may be provided by attaching to the manifest copies of the air waybills covering the cargo on board, including, if a consolidated shipment, any house air waybills. When copies of air waybills are attached, the statement “Cargo as per air waybills attached” must appear on the manifest. The manifest must reference an 11-digit air waybill number for each air waybill it covers. The air waybill number must not be used by the issuer for another air waybill for a period of one year after issuance.
(d)
Unaccompanied baggage.
Unaccompanied baggage arriving in the U.S. under a check number from any foreign country by air and presented timely to Customs may be authorized for delivery by the carrier after inspection and examination without preparation of an entry, declaration, or being manifested as cargo. Such baggage must be found to be free of duty or tax under any provision of Chapter 98, HTSUS (19 U.S.C. 1202), and cannot be restricted or prohibited. Unaccompanied checked baggage not presented timely to Customs or presented timely and found by Customs to be dutiable, restricted, or prohibited may be subject to seizure. Such unaccompanied checked baggage shall
be added to the cargo list in columns under the following headings:
Check No.
Description
Where from
Destination
Name of examining officer
Disposition
The two columns, headed “Name of examining officer” and “Disposition,” are provided on the cargo manifest for the use of Customs officers. Unaccompained unchecked baggage arriving as air express or freight shall be manifested as other air express or freight.
(e)
Accompanied baggage in transit.
This section applies when accompanied baggage enters into the U.S. in one aircraft and leaves the U.S. in another aircraft. When passengers do not have access to their baggage while in transit through the U.S., the baggage is considered cargo and shall be listed on Customs Form 7509, Air Cargo Manifest.
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51255, Dec. 21, 1988; T.D. 02-51, 67 FR 55721, Aug. 30, 2002; CBP Dec. 03-32, 68 FR 68170, Dec. 5, 2003]
§ 122.48a
Electronic information for air cargo required in advance of arrival.
(a)
General requirement.
Pursuant to section 343(a), Trade Act of 2002, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2071 note), for any inbound aircraft required to make entry under § 122.41, that will have commercial cargo aboard, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) must electronically receive from the inbound air carrier and, if applicable, an approved party as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, certain information concerning the inbound cargo, as enumerated, respectively, in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section. CBP must receive such information according to the time frames prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section. However, a subset of these data elements known as ACAS data and identified in paragraph (d) of this section, is also subject to the requirements and time frame described in § 122.48b. The advance electronic transmission of the required cargo information to CBP must be effected through a CBP-approved electronic data interchange system.
(1)
Cargo remaining aboard aircraft; cargo to be entered under bond.
Air cargo arriving from and departing for a foreign country on the same through flight and cargo that is unladen from the arriving aircraft and entered, in bond, for exportation, or for transportation and exportation (see subpart J of this part), are subject to the advance electronic information filing requirement under paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
Diplomatic Pouches and Diplomatic Cargo.
When goods comprising a diplomatic or consular bag (including cargo shipments, containers, and the like identified as Diplomatic Pouch) that belong to the United States or to a foreign government are shipped under an air waybill, such cargo is subject to the advance reporting requirements, but the description of the shipment as Diplomatic Pouch will be sufficient detail for description. Shipments identified as Diplomatic Cargo, such as office supplies or unaccompanied household goods, are subject to the advance reporting requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.
(b)
Time frame for presenting data
—(1)
Nearby foreign areas.
In the case of aircraft under paragraph (a) of this section that depart for the United States from any foreign port or place in North America, including locations in Mexico, Central America, South America (from north of the Equator only), the Caribbean, and Bermuda, CBP must receive the required cargo information no later than the time of the departure of the aircraft for the United States (the trigger time is no later than the time that wheels are up on the aircraft, and the aircraft is en route directly to the United States).
(2)
Other foreign areas.
In the case of aircraft under paragraph (a) of this section that depart for the United States from any foreign area other than that specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, CBP must receive the required cargo information no later than 4 hours prior to the arrival of the aircraft in the United States.
(c)
Party electing to file advance electronic cargo data
—(1)
Other filer.
In addition to incoming air carriers for whom participation is mandatory, one of the following parties meeting the qualifications of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, may elect to transmit to CBP the electronic data for incoming cargo that is listed in paragraph (d)(2) of this section:
(i) An Automated Broker Interface (ABI) filer (importer or its Customs broker) as identified by its ABI filer code;
(ii) A Container Freight Station/deconsolidator as identified by its FIRMS (Facilities Information and Resources Management System) code;
(iii) An Express Consignment Carrier Facility as identified by its FIRMS code; or,
(iv) An air carrier as identified by its carrier IATA (International Air Transport Association) code, that arranged to have the incoming air carrier transport the cargo to the United States.
(2)
Eligibility.
To be qualified to file cargo information electronically, a party identified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section must establish the communication protocol required by CBP for properly presenting cargo information through the approved data interchange system. Also, other than a broker or an importer (see § 113.62(k)(2) of this chapter), the party must possess a Customs international carrier bond containing all the necessary provisions of § 113.64 of this chapter.
(3)
Nonparticipation by other party.
If another party as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section does not participate in advance electronic cargo information filing, the party that arranges for and/or delivers the cargo shipment to the incoming carrier must fully disclose and present to the carrier the cargo information listed in paragraph (d)(2) of this section; and the incoming carrier must present this information electronically to CBP under paragraph (a) of this section.
(4)
Required information in possession of third party.
Any other entity in possession of required cargo data that is not the incoming air carrier or a party described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section must fully disclose and present the required data for the inbound air cargo to either the air carrier or other electronic filer, as applicable, which must present such data to CBP.
(5)
Party receiving information believed to be accurate.
Where the party electronically presenting the cargo information required in paragraph (d) of this section receives any of this information from another party, CBP will take into consideration how, in accordance with ordinary commercial practices, the presenting party acquired such information, and whether and how the presenting party is able to verify this information. Where the presenting party is not reasonably able to verify such information, CBP will permit the party to electronically present the information on the basis of what that party reasonably believes to be true.
(d)
Non-consolidated/consolidated shipments.
For non-consolidated shipments, the incoming air carrier must transmit to CBP all of the information for the air waybill record, as enumerated in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. For consolidated shipments: the incoming air carrier must transmit to CBP the information listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section that is applicable to the master air waybill; and the air carrier must transmit cargo information for all associated house air waybills as enumerated in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, unless another party as described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section electronically transmits this information directly to CBP.
(1)
Cargo information from air carrier.
The incoming air carrier must present to CBP the following data elements for inbound air cargo (an “M” next to any listed data element indicates that the data element is mandatory in all cases; a “C” next to the listed data element indicates that the data element is conditional and must be transmitted to CBP only if the particular information pertains to the inbound cargo; and an “A” next to any listed data element indicates that the data element is an ACAS data element that is also subject to the requirements and time frame specified in § 122.48b):
(i) Air waybill number (M) (A) (The air waybill number is the International Air Transport Association (IATA) standard 11-digit number);
(ii) Trip/flight number (M);
(iii) Carrier/ICAO (International Civil Aviation Organization) code (M) (The approved electronic data interchange system supports both 3- and 2-character ICAO codes, provided that the final digit of the 2-character code is not a numeric value);
(iv) Airport of arrival (M) (The 3-alpha character ICAO code corresponding to the first airport of arrival in the Customs territory of the United States (for example, Chicago O'Hare = ORD; Los Angeles International Airport = LAX));
(v) Airport of origin (M) (The 3-alpha character ICAO code corresponding to the airport from which a shipment began its transportation by air to the United States (for example, if a shipment began its transportation from Hong Kong (HKG), and it transits through Narita, Japan (NRT), en route to the United States, the airport of origin is HKG, not NRT));
(vi) Scheduled date of arrival (M);
(vii) Total quantity based on the smallest external packing unit (M) (A) (for example, 2 pallets containing 50 pieces each would be considered as 100, not 2);
(viii) Total weight (M) (A) (may be expressed in either pounds or kilograms);
(ix) Precise cargo description (M) (A) (for consolidated shipments, the word “Consolidation” is a sufficient description for the master air waybill record; for non-consolidated shipments, a precise cargo description or the 6-digit Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS) number must be provided (generic descriptions, specifically those such as “FAK” (“freight of all kinds”), “general cargo”, and “STC” (“said to contain”) are not acceptable));
(x) Shipper name and address (M) (A) (for consolidated shipments, the identity of the consolidator, express consignment or other carrier, is sufficient for the master air waybill record; for non-consolidated shipments, the name of the foreign vendor, supplier, manufacturer, or other similar party is acceptable (and the address of the foreign vendor, etc., must be a foreign address); by contrast, the identity of a carrier, freight forwarder or consolidator is not acceptable);
(xi) Consignee name and address (M) (A) (for consolidated shipments, the identity of the container station (see 19 CFR 19.40-19.49), express consignment or other carrier is sufficient for the master air waybill record; for non-consolidated shipments, the name and address of the party to whom the cargo will be delivered is required regardless of the location of the party; this party need not be located at the arrival or destination port);
(xii) Consolidation identifier (C);
(xiii) Split shipment indicator (C) (see paragraph (d)(3) of this section for the specific data elements that must be presented to CBP in the case of a split shipment);
(xiv) Permit to proceed information (C) (this element includes the permit-to-proceed destination airport (the 3-alpha character ICAO code corresponding to the permit-to-proceed destination airport); and the scheduled date of arrival at the permit-to-proceed destination airport);
(xv) Identifier of other party which is to submit additional air waybill information (C);
(xvi) In-bond information (C) (this data element includes the destination airport; the international/domestic identifier (the in-bond type indicator); the in-bond control number, if there is one (C); and the onward carrier identifier, if applicable (C));
(xvii) Local transfer facility (C) (this facility is a Container Freight Station as identified by its FIRMS code, or the warehouse of another air carrier as identified by its carrier code); and
(xviii) Flight departure message (M) (this data element includes the liftoff date and liftoff time using the Greenwich Mean Time (GMT)/Universal Time, Coordinated (UTC) at the time of departure from each foreign airport en route to the United States; if an aircraft en route to the United States stops at one or more foreign airports and cargo is loaded on board, the flight departure message must be provided for each departure).
(2)
Cargo information from carrier or other filer.
The incoming air carrier must present the following additional information to CBP for the incoming cargo, unless another party as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section
elects to present this information directly to CBP. Information for all house air waybills under a single master air waybill consolidation must be presented electronically to CBP by the same party. (An “M” next to any listed data element indicates that the data element is mandatory in all cases; a “C” next to any listed data element indicates that the data element is conditional and must be transmitted to CBP only if the particular information pertains to the inbound cargo; and an “A” next to any listed data element indicates that the data element is an ACAS data element that is also subject to the requirements and time frame specified in § 122.48b):
(i) The master air waybill number and the associated house air waybill number (M) (A) (the house air waybill number may be up to 12 alphanumeric characters (each alphanumeric character that is indicated on the paper house air waybill document must be included in the electronic transmission; alpha characters may not be eliminated));
(ii) Foreign airport of origin (M) (The 3-alpha character ICAO code corresponding to the airport from which a shipment began its transportation by air to the United States (for example, if a shipment began its transportation from Hong Kong (HKG), and it transits through Narita, Japan (NRT), en route to the United States, the airport of origin is HKG, not NRT));
(iii) Cargo description (M) (A) (a precise description of the cargo or the 6-digit Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS) number must be provided);
(iv) Total quantity based on the smallest external packing unit (M) (A) (for example, 2 pallets containing 50 pieces each would be considered as 100, not 2);
(v) Total weight of cargo (M) (A) (may be expressed in either pounds or kilograms);
(vi) Shipper name and address (M) (A) (the name of the foreign vendor, supplier, manufacturer, or other similar party is acceptable (and the address of the foreign vendor, etc., must be a foreign address); by contrast, the identity of a carrier, freight forwarder or consolidator is not acceptable);
(vii) Consignee name and address (M) (A) (the name and address of the party to whom the cargo will be delivered is required regardless of the location of the party; this party need not be located at the arrival or destination port); and
(viii) In-bond information (C) (this data element includes the destination airport; the international/domestic identifier (the in-bond type indicator); the in-bond control number, if there is one (C); and the onward carrier identifier, if applicable (C)).
(3)
Additional cargo information from air carrier; split shipment.
When the incoming air carrier elects to transport cargo covered under a single consolidated air waybill on more than one aircraft as a split shipment (see § 141.57 of this chapter), the carrier must report the following additional information for each house air waybill covered under the consolidation (An “M” next to any listed data element indicates that the data element is mandatory in all cases; a “C” next to any listed data element indicates that the data element is conditional and must be transmitted to CBP only if the particular information pertains to the inbound cargo):
(i) The master and house air waybill number (M) (The master air waybill number is the IATA standard 11-digit number; the house air waybill number may be up to 12 alphanumeric characters (each alphanumeric number that is indicated on the paper house air waybill must be included in the electronic transmission; alpha characters may not be eliminated));
(ii) The trip/flight number (M);
(iii) The carrier/ICAO code (M) (The approved electronic data interchange system supports both 3- and 2-character ICAO codes, provided that the final digit of the 2-character code is not a numeric value);
(iv) The airport of arrival (M) (The 3-alpha character ICAO code corresponding to the first airport of arrival in the Customs territory of the United States (for example, Chicago O'Hare = ORD; Los Angeles International Airport = LAX));
(v) The airport of origin (M) (The 3-alpha character ICAO code corresponding to the airport from which a
shipment began its transportation by air to the United States (for example, if a shipment began its transportation from Hong Kong (HKG), and it transits through Narita, Japan (NRT), en route to the United States, the airport of origin is HKG, not NRT));
(vi) Scheduled date of arrival (M);
(vii) The total quantity of the cargo covered by the house air waybill based on the smallest external packing unit (M) (For example, 2 pallets containing 50 pieces each would be considered as 100, not 2);
(viii) The total weight of the cargo covered by the house air waybill (M) (May be expressed in either pounds or kilograms);
(ix) Description (M) (This description should mirror the precise level of cargo description information that is furnished to the incoming carrier by the other electronic filer, if applicable (see paragraph (c)(1) of this section));
(x) Permit-to-proceed information (C) (This element includes the permit-to-proceed destination airport (the 3-alpha character ICAO code corresponding to the permit-to-proceed destination airport); and the scheduled date of arrival at the permit-to-proceed destination airport);
(xi) Boarded quantity (C) (The quantity of the cargo covered by the house air waybill (see paragraph (d)(3)(vii) of this section) that is included in the incoming portion of the split shipment); and
(xii) Boarded weight (C) (The weight of the cargo covered by the house air waybill (see paragraph (d)(3)(viii) of this section) that is included in the incoming portion of the split shipment).
[CBP Dec. 03-32, 68 FR 68170, Dec. 5, 2003, as amended at CBP Dec. 08-46, 73 FR 71782, Nov. 25, 2008; CBP Dec. 09-39, 74 FR 52677, Oct. 14, 2009; CBP Dec. 18-05, 83 FR 27404, June 12, 2018]
§ 122.48b
Air Cargo Advance Screening (ACAS).
(a)
General requirement.
Pursuant to section 343(a), Trade Act of 2002, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2071 note), in addition to the advance filing requirements pursuant to § 122.48a, for any inbound aircraft required to make entry under § 122.41, that will have commercial cargo aboard, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) must electronically receive from the inbound air carrier and/or another eligible ACAS filer, as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, certain information concerning the inbound cargo, as enumerated in paragraph (d) of this section. CBP must receive such information, known as ACAS data, no later than the time frame prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section. The transmission of the required ACAS data to CBP (ACAS filing) must be effected through a CBP-approved electronic data interchange system. Any ACAS referrals must be resolved in accordance with the provisions and time frame prescribed in paragraph (e) of this section. Any Do-Not-Load (DNL) instruction must be addressed in accordance with the provisions prescribed in paragraph (f) of this section.
(b)
Time frame for presenting data.
(1)
Initial filing.
The ACAS data must be submitted as early as practicable, but no later than prior to loading of the cargo onto the aircraft.
(2)
Update of ACAS filing.
The party who submitted the initial ACAS filing pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must update the initial filing if, after the filing is submitted, any of the submitted data changes or more accurate data becomes available. Updates are required up until the time frame specified in § 122.48a(b) for submitting advance information under § 122.48a(a).
(c)
Parties filing ACAS data
—(1)
Inbound air carrier.
If no other eligible party elects to file the ACAS data, the inbound air carrier must file the ACAS data. If another eligible party does elect to file ACAS data, the inbound air carrier may also choose to file the ACAS data.
(2)
Other filers.
The following entities can elect to be ACAS filers, provided they also meet the ACAS filer requirements in paragraph (c)(3) of this section:
(i) All parties eligible to elect to file advance electronic cargo data listed in § 122.48a(c); and
(ii) Foreign Indirect Air Carriers. For purposes of this section, “foreign indirect air carrier” (FIAC) is defined as any person, not a citizen of the United States, who undertakes indirectly to engage in the air transportation of
property. A FIAC may volunteer to be an ACAS filer and accept responsibility for the submission of accurate and timely ACAS filings, as well as for taking the necessary action to address any referrals and Do-Not-Load (DNL) instructions when applicable.
(3)
ACAS filer requirements.
All inbound air carriers and other entities electing to be ACAS filers must:
(i) Establish the communication protocol required by CBP for properly transmitting an ACAS filing through a CBP-approved electronic data interchange system;
(ii) Possess the appropriate bond containing all the necessary provisions of § 113.62, § 113.63, or § 113.64 of this chapter;
(iii) Report all of the originator codes that will be used to file ACAS data. If at any time, ACAS filers wish to utilize additional originator codes to file ACAS data, the originator code must be reported to CBP prior to its use; and
(iv) Provide 24 hours/7 days a week contact information consisting of a telephone number and email address. CBP will use the 24 hours/7 days a week contact information to notify, communicate, and carry out response protocols for Do-Not-Load (DNL) instructions, even if an electronic message is sent.
(4)
Nonparticipation by other party.
If a party specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section does not participate in an ACAS filing, the party that arranges for and/or delivers the cargo to the inbound air carrier must fully disclose and present to the inbound air carrier the required cargo data listed in paragraph (d) of this section; and the inbound air carrier must present this data electronically to CBP under paragraph (a) of this section.
(5)
Required information in possession of third party.
Any other entity in possession of required ACAS data that is not the inbound air carrier or a party described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section must fully disclose and present the required data for the inbound air cargo to either the inbound air carrier or other eligible ACAS filer, as applicable, which must present such data to CBP.
(6)
Party receiving information believed to be accurate.
Where the party electronically presenting the cargo data required in paragraph (d) of this section receives any of this data from another party, CBP will take into consideration how, in accordance with ordinary commercial practices, the presenting party acquired such information, and whether and how the presenting party is able to verify this information. Where the presenting party is not reasonably able to verify such information, CBP will permit the party to electronically present the data on the basis of what that party reasonably believes to be true.
(d)
ACAS data elements.
Some of the ACAS data elements are mandatory in all circumstances, one is conditional and is required only in certain circumstances, and others are optional. The definitions of the mandatory and conditional ACAS data elements are set forth in § 122.48a.
(1)
Mandatory data elements.
The following data elements are required to be submitted at the lowest air waybill level (
i.e.,
at the house air waybill level if applicable) by all ACAS filers:
(i) Shipper name and address;
(ii) Consignee name and address;
(iii) Cargo description;
(iv) Total quantity based on the smallest external packing unit;
(v) Total weight of cargo; and
(vi) Air waybill number. The air waybill number must be the same in the filing required by this section and the filing required by § 122.48a.
(2)
Conditional data element: Master air waybill number.
The master air waybill (MAWB) number for each leg of the flight is a conditional data element. The MAWB number is a required data element in the following circumstances; otherwise, the submission of the MAWB number is optional, but encouraged:
(i) When the ACAS filer is a different party than the party that will file the advance electronic air cargo data required by § 122.48a. To allow for earlier submission of the ACAS filing, the initial ACAS filing may be submitted without the MAWB number, as long as the MAWB number is later submitted by the ACAS filer or the inbound air carrier according to the applicable
ACAS time frame for data submission in paragraph (b) of this section; or
(ii) When the ACAS filer is transmitting all the data elements required by § 122.48a according to the applicable ACAS time frame for data submission; or
(iii) When the inbound air carrier would like to receive from CBP a check on the ACAS status of a specific shipment. If the MAWB number is submitted, either by the ACAS filer or the inbound air carrier, CBP will provide this information to the inbound air carrier upon request.
(3)
Optional data elements
—(i)
Second Notify Party.
The ACAS filer may choose to designate a Second Notify Party to receive shipment status messages from CBP.
(ii) Any additional data elements listed in § 122.48a or any additional information regarding ACAS data elements (
e.g.,
telephone number, email address, and/or internet protocol address for shipper and/or consignee) may be provided and are encouraged.
(e)
ACAS referrals
—(1)
Potential referrals.
There are two types of referrals that may be issued by CBP after a risk assessment of an ACAS submission:
(i)
Referral for information.
A referral for information will be issued if a risk assessment of the cargo cannot be conducted due to non-descriptive, inaccurate, or insufficient data. This can be due to typographical errors, vague cargo descriptions, and/or unverifiable information; and
(ii)
Referral for screening.
A referral for screening will be issued if the potential risk of the cargo is deemed high enough to warrant enhanced screening. A referral for screening must be resolved according to TSA-approved enhanced screening methods.
(2)
ACAS referral resolution.
All ACAS filers and/or inbound air carriers, as applicable, must respond to and take the necessary action to address all referrals as provided in paragraphs (e)(2)(i)-(ii) of this section, no later than prior to departure of the aircraft. The appropriate protocols and time frame for taking the necessary action to address these referrals must be followed as directed. The parties responsible for taking the necessary action to address ACAS referrals are as follows:
(i)
Referral for information.
The ACAS filer is responsible for taking the necessary action to address a referral for information. The last party to file the ACAS data is responsible for such action. For instance, the inbound air carrier is responsible for taking the necessary action to address a referral for information if the inbound air carrier retransmits an original ACAS filer's data and the referral is issued after this retransmission.
(ii)
Referral for screening.
As provided in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, a referral for screening must be resolved according to TSA-approved enhanced screening methods. If the ACAS filer is a party recognized by TSA to perform screening, the ACAS filer may address a referral for screening directly; if the ACAS filer is a party other than the inbound air carrier and chooses not to address the referral for screening or is not a party recognized by TSA to perform screening, the ACAS filer must notify the inbound air carrier of the referral for screening. The inbound air carrier is responsible for taking the necessary action to address a referral for screening, unless another ACAS filer recognized by TSA to perform screening has taken such action.
(3)
Prohibition on transporting cargo with unresolved ACAS referrals.
The inbound air carrier may not transport cargo on an aircraft destined to the United States until any and all referrals issued pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section with respect to such cargo have been resolved.
(f)
Do-Not-Load (DNL) instructions.
(1) A Do-Not-Load (DNL) instruction will be issued if it is determined that the cargo may contain a potential bomb, improvised explosive device, or other material that may pose an immediate, lethal threat to the aircraft and its vicinity.
(2) As provided in paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section, all ACAS filers must provide a telephone number and email address that is monitored 24 hours/7 days a week in case a Do-Not-Load (DNL) instruction is issued. All ACAS filers and/or inbound air carriers, as applicable, must respond and fully cooperate when the entity is reached by phone and/or email when a Do-Not-Load (DNL) instruction is issued. The
party with physical possession of the cargo will be required to carry out the Do-Not-Load (DNL) protocols and the directions provided by law enforcement authorities.
(3) The inbound air carrier may not transport cargo with a Do-Not-Load (DNL) instruction.
[CBP Dec. 18-05, 83 FR 27405, June 12, 2018]
§ 122.49
Correction of air cargo manifest or air waybill.
(a)
Shortages
—(1)
Reporting.
Shortages (merchandise listed on the manifest or air waybill but not found) shall be reported to the port director by the aircraft commander or agent. The report shall be made:
(i) On a Customs Form 5931, filled out and signed by the importer and the importing or bonded carrier; or
(ii) On a Customs Form 5931, filled out and signed by the importer alone under § 158.3 of this chapter; or
(iii) On a copy of the cargo manifest, which shall be marked “Shortage Declaration,” and must list the merchandise involved and the reasons for the shortage.
(2)
Time to file.
Shortages shall be reported within the time set out in part 158 of this chapter, or within 30 days of aircraft entry.
(3)
Evidence.
The aircraft commander or agent shall supply proof of the claim that:
(i) Shortage merchandise was not imported, or was properly disposed of; or
(ii) That corrective action was taken. This proof shall be kept in the carrier file for one year from the date of aircraft entry.
(b)
Overages
—(1)
Reporting.
Overages (merchandise found but not listed on the manifest or air waybill) shall be reported to the port director by the aircraft commander or agent. The report shall be made:
(i) On a Customs Form 5931; or
(ii) On a separate copy of the cargo manifest which is marked “Post Entry” and lists the overage merchandise and the reason for the overage.
(2)
Time to file.
Overages shall be reported within 30 days of aircraft entry.
(3)
Evidence.
Satisfactory proof of the reasons for the overage shall be kept on file by the carrier for one year from the date of the report.
(c)
Statement on cargo manifest.
If the air cargo manifest is used to report shortages or overages, the Shortages Declaration or Post Entry must include the signed statement of the aircraft commander or agent as follows:
I declare to the best of my knowledge and belief that the discrepancy described herein occurred for the reason stated. I also certify that evidence to support the explanation of the discrepancy will be retained in the carrier's files for a period of at least one year and will be made available to Customs on demand.
Signature
(Aircraft Commander or Agent)
(d)
Notice by port director.
The port director shall immediately notify the aircraft commander or agent of any shortages or overages that were not reported by the aircraft commander or agent. Notice shall be given by sending a copy of Customs Form 5931 to the aircraft commander or agent, or in any other appropriate way. The aircraft commander or agent shall make a satisfactory reply within 30 days of entry of the aircraft or receipt of the notice, whichever is later.
(e)
Correction not required.
A correction in the manifest or air waybill is not required if:
(1) The port director is satisfied that the difference between the quantity of bulk merchandise listed on the manifest or air waybill, and the quantity unladen, is the usual difference caused by absorption or loss of moisture, temperature, faulty weighing at the airport, or other such reason; and
(2) The marks or numbers on merchandise packages are different from the marks or numbers listed on the cargo manifest for those packages if the quantity and description of the merchandise is given correctly.
(f)
Statutes applicable.
If an aircraft arrives in the U.S. from a foreign area with merchandise and unaccompanied baggage for which a manifest or air waybill must be filed, section 584 (concerning manifest violations), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1584, applies.
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by T.D. 98-74, 63 FR 51288, Sept. 25, 1998]
§ 122.49a
Electronic manifest requirement for passengers onboard commercial aircraft arriving in the United States.
(a)
Definitions.
The following definitions apply for purposes of this section:
Appropriate official.
“Appropriate official” means the master or commanding officer, or authorized agent, owner, or consignee, of a commercial aircraft; this term and the term “carrier” are sometimes used interchangeably.
Carrier.
See “Appropriate official.”
Commercial aircraft.
“Commercial aircraft” has the meaning provided in § 122.1(d) and includes aircraft engaged in passenger flight operations, all-cargo flight operations, and dual flight operations involving the transport of both cargo and passengers.
Crew Member.
“Crew member” means a person serving on board an aircraft in good faith in any capacity required for normal operation and service of the flight. In addition, the definition of “crew member” applicable to this section should not be applied in the context of other customs laws, to the extent this definition differs from the meaning of “crew member” contemplated in such other customs laws.
Departure.
“Departure” means the point at which the wheels are up on the aircraft and the aircraft is en route directly to its destination.
Emergency.
“Emergency” means, with respect to an aircraft arriving at a U.S. port due to an emergency, an urgent situation due to a mechanical, medical, or security problem affecting the flight, or to an urgent situation affecting the non-U.S. port of destination that necessitates a detour to a U.S. port.
Passenger.
“Passenger” means any person, including a Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Aviation Security Inspector with valid credentials and authorization, being transported on a commercial aircraft who is not a crew member.
Securing the aircraft.
“Securing the aircraft” means the moment the aircraft's doors are closed and secured for flight.
United States.
“United States” means the continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (beginning November 28, 2009), and the Virgin Islands of the United States.
(b)
Electronic arrival manifest
—(1)
General
(i)—
Basic requirement.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, an appropriate official of each commercial aircraft (carrier) arriving in the United States from any place outside the United States must transmit to the Advance Passenger Information System (APIS; referred to in this section as the Customs and Border Protection (CBP) system), the electronic data interchange system approved by CBP for such transmissions, an electronic passenger arrival manifest covering all passengers checked in for the flight. A passenger manifest must be transmitted separately from a crew member manifest required under § 122.49b if transmission is in U.S. EDIFACT format. The passenger manifest must be transmitted to the CBP system at the place and time specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, in the manner set forth under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(ii)
Transmission of manifests.
A carrier required to make passenger arrival manifest transmissions to the CBP system under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section must make the required transmissions, covering all passengers checked in for the flight, in accordance with either paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section, as follows:
(A)
Non-interactive batch transmission option.
A carrier that chooses not to transmit required passenger manifests by means of a CBP-certified interactive electronic transmission system under paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(B), (C), or (D) of this section must make batch manifest transmissions in accordance with this paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) by means of a non-interactive electronic transmission system approved by CBP. The carrier may make a single, complete batch manifest transmission containing the data required under paragraph (b)(3) of this section for all passengers checked in for the flight or two or more partial batch manifest transmissions, each containing the required data for the identified passengers and which together cover all passengers checked in for the flight. After receipt of the manifest information, the CBP
system will perform an initial security vetting of the data and send to the carrier by a non-interactive transmission method a “not-cleared” instruction for passengers identified as requiring additional security analysis and a “selectee” instruction for passengers requiring secondary screening (e.g., additional examination of the person and/or his baggage) under applicable Transportation Security Administration (TSA) requirements. The carrier must designate as a “selectee” any passenger so identified during initial security vetting, in accordance with applicable TSA requirements. The carrier must not issue a boarding pass to, or load the baggage of, any passenger subject to a “not-cleared” instruction and must contact TSA to seek resolution of the “not-cleared” instruction by providing, if necessary, additional relevant information relative to the “not-cleared” passenger. TSA will notify the carrier if the “not-cleared” passenger is cleared for boarding or downgraded to “selectee” status based on the additional security analysis.
(B)
Interactive batch transmission option.
A carrier, upon obtaining CBP certification, in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(E) of this section, may make manifest transmissions by means of an interactive electronic transmission system configured for batch transmission of data and receipt from the CBP system of appropriate messages. A carrier operating under this paragraph must make transmissions by transmitting a single, complete batch manifest containing the data required under paragraph (b)(3) of this section for all passengers checked in for the flight or two or more partial batch manifests, each containing the required data for the identified passengers and which together cover all passengers checked in for the flight. In the case of connecting passengers arriving at the connecting airport already in possession of boarding passes for a U.S.-bound flight whose data have not been collected by the carrier, the carrier must transmit all required manifest data for these passengers when they arrive at the gate, or some other suitable place designated by the carrier, for the flight. After receipt of the manifest information, the CBP system will perform an initial security vetting of the data and send to the carrier by interactive electronic transmission, as appropriate, a “cleared” instruction for passengers not matching against the watch list, a “not-cleared” instruction for passengers identified as requiring additional security analysis, and a “selectee” instruction for passengers who require secondary screening (e.g., additional examination of the person and/or his baggage) under applicable TSA requirements. The carrier must designate as a “selectee” any passenger so identified during initial security vetting, in accordance with applicable TSA requirements. The carrier must not issue a boarding pass to, or load the baggage of, any passenger subject to a “not-cleared” instruction and, in the case of connecting passengers (as described in this paragraph), the carrier must not board or load the baggage of any such passenger until the CBP system returns a “cleared” or “selectee” response for that passenger. Where a “selectee” instruction is received for a connecting passenger, the carrier must ensure that such passenger undergoes secondary screening before boarding. The carrier must seek resolution of a “not-cleared” instruction by contacting TSA and providing, if necessary, additional relevant information relative to the “not-cleared” passenger. Upon completion of the additional security analysis, TSA will notify the carrier if a “not-cleared” passenger is cleared for boarding or downgraded to “selectee” status based on the additional security analysis. No later than 30 minutes after the securing of the aircraft, the carrier must transmit to the CBP system a message reporting any passengers who checked in but were not onboard the flight. The message must identify the passengers by a unique identifier selected or devised by the carrier or by specific passenger data (e.g., name) and may contain the unique identifiers or data for all passengers onboard the flight or for only those passengers who checked in but were not onboard the flight.
(C)
Interactive individual passenger information transmission option.
A carrier, upon obtaining CBP certification, in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(E)
of this section, may make manifest transmissions by means of an interactive electronic transmission system configured for transmitting individual passenger data for each passenger and for receiving from the CBP system appropriate messages. A carrier operating under this paragraph must make such transmissions as individual passengers check in for the flight or, in the case of connecting passengers arriving at the connecting airport already in possession of boarding passes for a U.S.-bound flight whose data have not been collected by the carrier, as these connecting passengers arrive at the gate, or some other suitable place designated by the carrier, for the flight. With each transmission of manifest information by the carrier, the CBP system will perform an initial security vetting of the data and send to the carrier by interactive electronic transmission, as appropriate, a “cleared” instruction for passengers not matching against the watch list, a “not-cleared” instruction for passengers identified as requiring additional security analysis, and a “selectee” instruction for passengers requiring secondary screening (e.g., additional examination of the person and/or his baggage) under applicable TSA requirements. The carrier must designate as a “selectee” any passenger so identified during initial security vetting, in accordance with applicable TSA requirements. The carrier must not issue a boarding pass to, or load the baggage of, any passenger subject to a “not-cleared” instruction and, in the case of connecting passengers (as described in this paragraph), must not board or load the baggage of any such passenger until the CBP system returns a “cleared” or “selectee” response for that passenger. Where a “selectee” instruction is received by the carrier for a connecting passenger, the carrier must ensure that secondary screening of the passenger is conducted before boarding. The carrier must seek resolution of a “not-cleared” instruction by contacting TSA and providing, if necessary, additional relevant information relative to the “not-cleared” passenger. Upon completion of the additional security analysis, TSA will notify the carrier if a “not-cleared” passenger is cleared for boarding or downgraded to “selectee” status based on the additional security analysis. No later than 30 minutes after the securing of the aircraft, the carrier must transmit to the CBP system a message reporting any passengers who checked in but were not onboard the flight. The message must identify the passengers by a unique identifier selected or devised by the carrier or by specific passenger data (name) and may contain the unique identifiers or data for all passengers onboard the flight or for only those passengers who checked in but were not onboard the flight.
(D)
Combined use of interactive methods.
If certified to do so, a carrier may make transmissions under both paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section for a particular flight or for different flights.
(E)
Certification.
Before making any required manifest transmissions under paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(B) or (C) of this section, a carrier must subject its electronic transmission system to CBP testing, and CBP must certify that the carrier's system is then presently capable of interactively communicating with the CBP system for effective transmission of manifest data and receipt of appropriate messages in accordance with those paragraphs.
(2)
Place and time for submission.
The appropriate official specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section (carrier) must transmit the arrival manifest or manifest data as required under paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section to the CBP system (CBP Data Center, CBP Headquarters), in accordance with the following:
(i) For manifests transmitted under paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section, no later than 30 minutes prior to the securing of the aircraft;
(ii) For manifest information transmitted under paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(C) of this section, no later than the securing of the aircraft;
(iii) For flights not originally destined to the United States but diverted to a U.S. port due to an emergency, no later than 30 minutes prior to arrival; in cases of non-compliance, CBP will take into consideration whether the carrier was equipped to make the transmission and the circumstances of the emergency situation; and
(iv) For an aircraft operating as an air ambulance in service of a medical emergency, no later than 30 minutes prior to arrival; in cases of non-compliance, CBP will take into consideration whether the carrier was equipped to make the transmission and the circumstances of the emergency situation.
(3)
Information required.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the electronic passenger arrival manifest required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section must contain the following information for all passengers, except that the information specified in paragraphs (b)(iv), (v), (x), (xii), (xiii), and (xiv) of this section must be included on the manifest only on or after October 4, 2005:
(i) Full name (last, first, and, if available, middle);
(ii) Date of birth;
(iii) Gender (F = female; M = male);
(iv) Citizenship;
(v) Country of residence;
(vi) Status on board the aircraft;
(vii) Travel document type (
e.g.
, P = passport; A = alien registration card);
(viii) Passport number, if a passport is required;
(ix) Passport country of issuance, if a passport is required;
(x) Passport expiration date, if a passport is required;
(xi) Alien registration number, where applicable;
(xii) Address while in the United States (number and street, city, state, and zip code), except that this information is not required for U.S. citizens, lawful permanent residents, or persons who are in transit to a location outside the United States;
(xiii) Passenger Name Record locator, if available;
(xiv) International Air Transport Association (IATA) code of foreign port/place where transportation to the United States began (foreign port code);
(xv) IATA code of port/place of first arrival (arrival port code);
(xvi) IATA code of final foreign port/place of destination for in-transit passengers (foreign port code);
(xvii) Airline carrier code;
(xviii) Flight number; and
(xix) Date of aircraft arrival.
(c)
Exception.
The electronic passenger arrival manifest specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is not required for active duty U.S. military personnel being transported as passengers on arriving Department of Defense commercial chartered aircraft.
(d)
Carrier responsibility for comparing information collected with travel document.
The carrier collecting the information described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section is responsible for comparing the travel document presented by the passenger with the travel document information it is transmitting to CBP in accordance with this section in order to ensure that the information is correct, the document appears to be valid for travel to the United States, and the passenger is the person to whom the travel document was issued.
(e)
Sharing of manifest information.
Information contained in the passenger manifests required by this section that is received by CBP electronically may, upon request, be shared with other Federal agencies for the purpose of protecting national security. CBP may also share such information as otherwise authorized by law.
[CBP Dec. 05-12, 70 FR 17852, Apr. 7, 2005, as amended by CBP Dec. 07-64, 72 FR 48342, Aug. 23, 2007; CBP Dec. 09-02, 74 FR 2836, Jan. 16, 2009; CBP Dec. 09-14, 74 FR 25388, May 28, 2009]
§ 122.49b
Electronic manifest requirement for crew members and non-crew members onboard commercial aircraft arriving in, continuing within, and overflying the United States.
(a)
Definitions.
The definitions set forth below apply for purposes of this section. The definitions set forth in § 122.49a(a), other than those for the terms set forth below, also apply for purposes of this section:
All-cargo flight.
“All-cargo flight” means a flight in operation for the purpose of transporting cargo which has onboard only “crew members” and “non-crew members” as defined in this paragraph.
Carrier.
In addition to the meaning set forth in § 122.49a(a), “carrier” includes each entity that is an “aircraft operator” or “foreign air carrier” with a security program under 49 CFR part
1544, 1546, or 1550 of the Transportation Security Administration regulations.
Crew member.
“Crew member” means a pilot, copilot, flight engineer, airline management personnel authorized to travel in the cockpit, cabin crew, and relief crew (also known as “deadheading crew”). However, for all other purposes of immigration law and documentary evidence required under the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101,
et seq.
), “crew member” (or “crewman”) means a person serving onboard an aircraft in good faith in any capacity required for the normal operation and service of the flight (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(10) and (a)(15)(D), as applicable). In addition, the definition of “crew member” applicable to this section should not be applied in the context of other customs laws, to the extent this definition differs from the meaning of “crew member” contemplated in such other customs laws.
Flight continuing within the United States.
“Flight continuing within the United States” refers to the domestic leg of a flight operated by a foreign air carrier that originates at a foreign port or place, arrives at a U.S. port, and then continues to a second U.S. port.
Flight overflying the United States.
“Flight overflying the United States” refers to a flight departing from a foreign port or place that enters the territorial airspace of the U.S. en route to another foreign port or place.
Non-crew member.
“Non-crew member” means air carrier employees and their family members and persons traveling onboard a commercial aircraft for the safety of the flight (such as an animal handler when animals are onboard). The definition of “non-crew member” is limited to all-cargo flights. (On a passenger or dual flight (passengers and cargo), air carrier employees, their family members, and persons onboard for the safety of the flight are considered passengers.)
Territorial airspace of the United States.
“Territorial airspace of the United States” means the airspace over the United States, its territories, and possessions, and the airspace over the territorial waters between the United States coast and 12 nautical miles from the coast.
(b)
Electronic arrival manifest
—(1)
General requirement.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, an appropriate official of each commercial aircraft operating a flight arriving in or overflying the United States, from a foreign port or place, or continuing within the United States after arriving at a U.S. port from a foreign port or place, must transmit to Customs and Border Protection (CBP) an electronic crew member manifest and, for all-cargo flights only, an electronic non-crew member manifest covering any crew members and non-crew members onboard. Each manifest must be transmitted to CBP at the place and time specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section by means of an electronic data interchange system approved by CBP and must set forth the information specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. Where both a crew member manifest and a non-crew member manifest are required with respect to an all-cargo flight, they must be combined in one manifest covering both crew members and non-crew members. Where a passenger arrival manifest under § 122.49a and a crew member arrival manifest under this section are required, they must be transmitted separately if the transmission is in US EDIFACT format.
(2)
Place and time for submission; certification; changes to manifest
—(i)
Place and time for submission.
The appropriate official specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must transmit the electronic manifest required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section to the CBP Data Center, CBP Headquarters:
(A) With respect to aircraft arriving in and overflying the United States, no later than 60 minutes prior to departure of the aircraft from the foreign port or place of departure, and with respect to aircraft continuing within the United States, no later than 60 minutes prior to departure from the U.S. port of arrival;
(B) For a flight not originally destined to arrive in the United States but diverted to a U.S. port due to an emergency, no later than 30 minutes prior to arrival; in cases of noncompliance, CBP will take into consideration that the carrier was not equipped to make
the transmission and the circumstances of the emergency situation; and
(C) For an aircraft operating as an air ambulance in service of a medical emergency, no later than 30 minutes prior to arrival;
(ii)
Certification.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the appropriate official, by transmitting the manifest as required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, certifies that the flight's crew members and non-crew members are included, respectively, on the master crew member list or master non-crew member list previously submitted to CBP in accordance with § 122.49c. If a crew member or non-crew member on the manifest is not also included on the appropriate master list, the flight may be, as appropriate, denied clearance to depart, diverted from arriving in the United States, or denied clearance to enter the territorial airspace of the United States.
(iii)
Changes to manifest.
The appropriate official is obligated to make necessary changes to the crew member or non-crew member manifest after transmission of the manifest to CBP. Necessary changes include adding a name, with other required information, to the manifest or amending previously submitted information. If changes are submitted less than 60 minutes before scheduled flight departure, the air carrier must receive approval from TSA before allowing the flight to depart or the flight may be, as appropriate, denied clearance to depart, diverted from arriving in the United States, or denied clearance to enter the territorial airspace of the United States.
(3)
Information required.
The electronic crew member and non-crew member manifests required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section must contain the following information for all crew members and non-crew members, except that the information specified in paragraphs (b)(iii), (v), (vi), (vii), (xiii), (xv), and (xvi) of this section must be included on the manifest only on or after October 4, 2005:
(i) Full name (last, first, and, if available, middle);
(ii) Date of birth;
(iii) Place of birth (city, state—if applicable, country);
(iv) Gender (F = female; M = male);
(v) Citizenship;
(vi) Country of residence;
(vii) Address of permanent residence;
(viii) Status on board the aircraft;
(ix) Pilot certificate number and country of issuance (if applicable);
(x) Travel document type (
e.g.
, P = passport; A = alien registration card);
(xi) Passport number, if a passport is required;
(xii) Passport country of issuance, if a passport is required;
(xiii) Passport expiration date, if a passport is required;
(xiv) Alien registration number, where applicable;
(xv) Passenger Name Record locator, if available;
(xvi) International Air Transport Association (IATA) code of foreign port/place where transportation to the United States began or where the transportation destined to the territorial airspace of the United States began (foreign port code);
(xvii) IATA code of port/place of first arrival (arrival port code);
(xviii) IATA code of final foreign port/place of destination for (foreign port code);
(xix) Airline carrier code;
(xx) Flight number; and
(xxi) Date of aircraft arrival.
(c)
Exceptions.
The electronic crew member or non-crew member manifest requirement specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is subject to the following conditions:
(1) Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Aviation Safety Inspectors with valid credentials and authorization are not subject to the requirement, but the manifest requirement of § 122.49a applies to these inspectors on flights arriving in the United States, as they are considered passengers on arriving flights;
(2) For crew members traveling onboard an aircraft chartered by the U.S. Department of Defense that is arriving in the United States, the provisions of this section apply regarding electronic transmission of the manifest, except that:
(i) The manifest certification provision of paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section is inapplicable; and
(ii) The TSA manifest change approval requirement of paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section is inapplicable;
(3) For crew members traveling onboard an aircraft chartered by the U.S. Department of Defense that is continuing a flight within the United States or overflying the United States, the manifest is not required;
(4) For non-crew members traveling onboard an all-cargo flight chartered by the U.S. Department of Defense that is arriving in the United States, the manifest is not required, but the manifest requirement of § 122.49a applies to these persons, as, in this instance, they are considered passengers on arriving flights; and
(5) For non-crew members traveling onboard an all-cargo flight chartered by the U.S. Department of Defense that is continuing a flight within the United States or overflying the United States, the manifest is not required.
(d)
Carrier responsibility for comparing information collected with travel document.
The carrier collecting the information described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section is responsible for comparing the travel document presented by the crew member or non-crew member with the travel document information it is transmitting to CBP in accordance with this section in order to ensure that the information is correct, the document appears to be valid for travel to the United States, and the crew member or non-crew member is the person to whom the travel document was issued.
(e)
Sharing of manifest information.
Information contained in the crew member and non-crew member manifests required by this section that is received by CBP electronically may, upon request, be shared with other Federal agencies for the purpose of protecting national security. CBP may also share such information as otherwise authorized by law.
(f)
Superseding amendments issued by TSA.
One or more of the requirements of this section may be superseded by specific provisions of, amendments to, or alternative procedures authorized by TSA for compliance with an aviation security program, emergency amendment, or security directive issued by the TSA to an air carrier subject to 49 CFR part 1544, 1546, or 1550. The provisions or amendments will have superseding effect only for the air carrier to which issued and only for the period of time specified in the provision or amendment.
[CBP Dec. 05-12, 70 FR 17852, Apr. 7, 2005]
§ 122.49c
Master crew member list and master non-crew member list requirement for commercial aircraft arriving in, departing from, continuing within, and overflying the United States.
(a)
General requirement.
Air carriers subject to the provisions of §§ 122.49b and 122.75b, with respect to the flights covered in those sections, must electronically transmit to Customs and Border Protection (CBP), by means of an electronic data interchange system approved by CBP, a master crew member list and a master non-crew member list containing the information set forth in paragraph (c) of this section covering, respectively, all crew members and non-crew members operating and servicing its flights. The initial transmission of a list must be made at least two days in advance of any flight a crew member or non-crew member on the list will be operating, serving on, or traveling on and must contain the information set forth in paragraph (c) of this section. After review of the master crew list and the master non-crew list by TSA, TSA will advise the carrier of any crew members or non-crew members that must be removed from the list. Only those persons on the TSA-approved master crew and master non-crew lists will be permitted to operate, serve on, or travel on flights covered by this section. Until a carrier becomes a participant in the CBP-approved electronic interchange system, it must submit the required information in a format provided by TSA.
(b)
Changes to master lists.
After the initial transmission of the master crew member and non-crew member lists to CBP, the carrier is obligated to update the lists as necessary. To add a name to either list, along with the required information set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, or to add or change information relative to a name already submitted, the carrier must transmit
the information to CBP at least 24 hours in advance of any flight the added or subject crew member or non-crew member will be operating, serving on, or traveling on. A carrier must submit deletions from the lists as expeditiously as possible.
(c)
Master list information.
The electronic master crew lists required under paragraph (a) of this section must contain the following information with respect to each crew member or non-crew member that operates, serves on, or travels on a carrier's flights that are covered by this section except that the information specified in paragraphs (c)(4), (5), (6), (7), and (10) of this section must be included on the manifest only on or after October 4, 2005:
(1) Full name (last, first, and, if available, middle);
(2) Gender;
(3) Date of birth;
(4) Place of birth (city, state—if applicable, and country);
(5) Citizenship;
(6) Country of residence;
(7) Address of permanent residence;
(8) Passport number, if passport required;
(9) Passport country of issuance, if passport required;
(10) Passport expiration date, if passport required;
(11) Pilot certificate number and country of issuance, if applicable;
(12) Status onboard the aircraft.
(d)
Exception.
The master crew member and non-crew member list requirements of this section do not apply to aircraft chartered by the U.S. Department of Defense.
(e)
Superseding amendments issued by TSA.
One or more of the requirements of this section may be superseded by specific provisions of, amendments to, or alternative procedures authorized by TSA for compliance with an aviation security program, emergency amendment, or security directive issued by the TSA to an air carrier subject to the provisions of 49 CFR part 1544, 1546, or 1550. The amendments will have superseding effect only for the air carrier to which issued and only for the period of time specified in the amendment.
[CBP Dec. 05-12, 70 FR 17854, Apr. 7, 2005]
§ 122.49d
Passenger Name Record (PNR) information.
(a)
General requirement.
Each air carrier, foreign and domestic, operating a passenger flight in foreign air transportation to or from the United States, including flights to the United States where the passengers have already been pre-inspected or pre-cleared at the foreign location for admission to the U.S., must, upon request, provide Customs with electronic access to certain Passenger Name Record (PNR) information, as defined and described in paragraph (b) of this section. In order to readily provide Customs with such access to requested PNR information, each air carrier must ensure that its electronic reservation/departure control systems correctly interface with the U.S. Customs Data Center, Customs Headquarters, as prescribed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(b)
PNR information defined; PNR information that Customs may request
—(1)
PNR information defined.
Passenger Name Record (PNR) information refers to reservation information contained in an air carrier's electronic reservation system and/or departure control system that sets forth the identity and travel plans of each passenger or group of passengers included under the same reservation record with respect to any flight covered by paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
PNR data that Customs may request.
The air carrier, upon request, must provide Customs with electronic access to any and all PNR data elements relating to the identity and travel plans of a passenger concerning any flight under paragraph (a) of this section, to the extent that the carrier in fact possesses the requested data elements in its reservation system and/or departure control system. There is no requirement that the carrier collect any PNR information under this paragraph, that the carrier does not otherwise collect on its own and maintain in its electronic reservation/departure control systems.
(c)
Required carrier system interface with Customs Data Center to facilitate Customs retrieval of requested PNR data
—(1)
Carrier requirements for interface with Customs.
Within the time specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, each
air carrier must fully and effectively interface its electronic reservation/departure control systems with the U.S. Customs Data Center, Customs Headquarters, in order to facilitate Customs ability to retrieve needed Passenger Name Record data from these electronic systems. To effect this interface between the air carrier's electronic reservation/departure control systems and the Customs Data Center, the carrier must:
(i) Provide Customs with an electronic connection to its reservation system and/or departure control system. (This connection can be provided directly to the Customs Data Center, Customs Headquarters, or through a third party vendor that has such a connection to Customs.);
(ii) Provide Customs with the necessary airline reservation/departure control systems' commands that will enable Customs to:
(A) Connect to the carrier's reservation/departure control systems;
(B) Obtain the carrier's schedules of flights;
(C) Obtain the carrier's passenger flight lists; and
(D) Obtain data for all passengers listed for a specific flight; and
(iii) Provide technical assistance to Customs as required for the continued full and effective interface of the carrier's electronic reservation/departure control systems with the Customs Data Center, in order to ensure the proper response from the carrier's systems to requests for data that are made by Customs.
(2)
Time within which carrier must interface with Customs Data Center to facilitate Customs access to requested PNR data.
Any air carrier which has not taken steps to fully and effectively interface its electronic reservation/departure control systems with the Customs Data Center must do so, as prescribed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)-(c)(1)(iii) of this section, within 30 days from the date that Customs contacts the carrier and requests that the carrier effect such an interface. After being contacted by Customs, if an air carrier determines it needs more than 30 days to properly interface its automated database with the Customs Data Center, it may apply in writing to the Assistant Commissioner, Office of Field Operations (OFO) for an extension. Following receipt of the application, the Assistant Commissioner, OFO, may, in writing, allow the carrier an extension of this period for good cause shown. The Assistant Commissioner's decision as to whether and/or to what extent to grant such an extension is within the sole discretion of the Assistant Commissioner and is final.
(d)
Sharing of PNR information with other Federal agencies.
Passenger Name Record information as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section that is made available to Customs electronically may, upon request, be shared with other Federal agencies for the purpose of protecting national security (49 U.S.C. 44909(c)(5)). Customs may also share such data as otherwise authorized by law.
[T.D. 02-33, 67 FR 42712, June 25, 2002. Redesignated by CBP Dec. 05-12, 70 FR 17852, Apr. 7, 2005]
§ 122.50
General order merchandise.
(a) Any merchandise or baggage regularly landed but not covered by a permit for its release shall be allowed to remain at the place of unlading until the fifteenth calendar day after landing. No later than 20 calendar days after landing, the pilot or owner of the aircraft or the agent thereof shall notify Customs of any such merchandise or baggage for which entry has not been made. Such notification shall be provided in writing or by any appropriate Customs-authorized electronic data interchange system. Failure to provide such notification may result in assessment of a monetary penalty of up to $1,000 per bill of lading against the pilot or owner of the aircraft or the agent thereof. If the value of the merchandise on the bill is less than $1,000, the penalty shall be equal to the value of such merchandise.
(b) Any merchandise or baggage that is taken into custody from an arriving carrier by any party under a Customs-authorized permit to transfer or in-bond entry may remain in the custody of that party for 15 calendar days after receipt under such permit to transfer or 15 calendar days after arrival at the port of destination. No later than 20 calendar days after receipt under the
permit to transfer or 20 calendar days after arrival under bond at the port of destination, the party shall notify Customs of any such merchandise or baggage for which entry has not been made. Such notification shall be provided in writing or by any appropriate Customs-authorized electronic data interchange system. If the party fails to notify Customs of the unentered merchandise or baggage in the allotted time, he may be liable for the payment of liquidated damages under the terms and conditions of his custodial bond (see § 113.63(c)(4) of this chapter).
(c) In addition to the notification to Customs required under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the carrier (or any other party to whom custody of the unentered merchandise has been transferred by a Customs authorized permit to transfer or in-bond entry) shall provide notification of the presence of such unreleased and unentered merchandise or baggage to a bonded warehouse certified by the port director as qualified to receive general order merchandise. Such notification shall be provided in writing or by any appropriate Customs-authorized electronic data interchange system and shall be provided within the applicable 20-day period specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section. It shall then be the responsibility of the bonded warehouse proprietor to arrange for the transportation and storage of the merchandise or baggage at the risk and expense of the consignee. The arriving carrier (or other party to whom custody of the merchandise was transferred by the carrier under a Customs-authorized permit to transfer or in-bond entry) is responsible for preparing a Customs Form (CF) 6043 (Delivery Ticket), or other similar Customs document as designated by the port director or an electronic equivalent as authorized by Customs, to cover the proprietor's receipt of the merchandise and its transport to the warehouse from the custody of the arriving carrier (or other party to whom custody of the merchandise was transferred by the carrier under a Customs-authorized permit to transfer or in-bond entry) (
see
§ 19.9 of this chapter). Any unentered merchandise or baggage shall remain the responsibility of the carrier, pilot, or person in charge of the importing aircraft, or the agent thereof, or party to whom the merchandise has been transferred under a Customs authorized permit to transfer or in-bond entry, until it is properly transferred from his control in accordance with this paragraph. If the party to whom custody of the unentered merchandise or baggage has been transferred by a Customs-authorized permit to transfer or in-bond entry fails to notify a Customs-approved bonded warehouse of such merchandise or baggage within the applicable 20-calendar-day period, he may be liable for the payment of liquidated damages of $1,000 per bill of lading under the terms and conditions of his international carrier or custodial bond (see §§ 113.63(b), 113.63(c) and 113.64(b) of this chapter).
(d) If the carrier or any other party to whom custody of the unentered merchandise has been transferred by a Customs-authorized permit to transfer or in-bond entry fails to timely relinquish custody of the merchandise to a Customs-approved bonded General Order warehouse, the carrier or other party may be liable for liquidated damages equal to the value of that merchandise under the terms and conditions of his international carrier or custodial bond, as applicable.
(e) If the bonded warehouse operator fails to take possession of unentered and unreleased merchandise or baggage within five calendar days after receipt of notification of the presence of such merchandise or baggage under this section, he may be liable for the payment of liquidated damages under the terms and conditions of his custodial bond (see § 113.63(a)(1) of this chapter). If the port director finds that the warehouse proprietor cannot accept the goods because they are required by law to be exported or destroyed (
see
§ 127.28 of this chapter), or for other good cause, the goods will remain in the custody of the arriving carrier or other party to whom the goods have been transferred under a Customs-authorized permit to transfer or in-bond entry. In this event, the carrier or other party will be responsible under bond for exporting or destroying the goods, as necessary (
see
§§ 113.63(c)(3) and 113.64(b) of this chapter).
(f) In ports where there is no bonded warehouse authorized to accept general order merchandise, or if merchandise requires specialized storage facilities that are unavailable in a bonded facility, the port director, after having received notice of the presence of unentered merchandise or baggage in accordance with the provisions of this section, shall direct the storage of the merchandise by the carrier or by any other appropriate means.
(g) Merchandise taken into the custody of the port director pursuant to section 490(b), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1490(b)), shall be sent to a general order warehouse after 1 day after the day the aircraft arrived, to be held there at the risk and expense of the consignee.
[T.D. 98-74, 63 FR 51288, Sept. 25, 1998, as amended by T.D. 02-65, 67 FR 68033, Nov. 8, 2002]

# Subpart F—International Traffic Permit
§ 122.51
Aircraft of domestic origin registered in the U.S.
After Customs inspection of the aircraft, passengers, baggage and merchandise at the entry airport, commercial aircraft of domestic origin registered in the U.S. may be allowed to proceed to other airports in the U.S. without permit.
§ 122.52
Aircraft of foreign origin registered in the U.S.
(a)
Application.
This section applies to commercial aircraft (as defined in § 122.1(d)) of foreign origin registered in the U.S. and arriving in the U.S. from a foreign area.
(b)
Aircraft entered as an imported article.
If an aircraft covered by this section is entered as an imported article, and any applicable duty for the aircraft has been paid on a prior arrival, it may be allowed to proceed as other than an imported article. In this instance, the aircraft commander must file a declaration that states the:
(1) Port where entry was made;
(2) Date duty, if any, was paid; and
(3) Number of the entry.
(c)
Aircraft not entered as imported article
—(1)
Treatment as other than an imported article.
A commercial aircraft covered by this section which has not been entered as an imported article may travel from airport to airport in the U.S. without payment of duty. Each commercial aircraft shall proceed under a permit on Customs Form 7507 or 7509, as provided in § 122.54. Treatment of the aircraft as other than an imported article shall continue for so long as the aircraft:
(i) Is used only for commercial purposes between the U.S. and foreign areas; and
(ii) Will leave the U.S. for a foreign destination in commercial use or carrying neither passengers nor cargo.
(2)
Treatment as an imported article.
Any aircraft covered by this section which was not entered as an imported article shall make entry if it:
(i) Is withdrawn from commercial use between the U.S. and foreign areas; or
(ii) Is used in the U.S. in a way not reasonably related to efficient commercial use of the aircraft between the U.S. and foreign areas.
(3)
Aircraft damage and duty payment
—(i)
Substantial damage to commercial aircraft.
If an accident causes substantial damage to a commercial aircraft, no entry or duty payment is required for any part of the wreckage.
(ii)
Less than substantial damage and export.
If an accident does not cause substantial damage to a commercial aircraft, salvageable parts of the wrecked aircraft may be exported. In this circumstance, the aircraft, as a whole or in part, is not considered to be withdrawn from commercial use and is not subject to entry or to duty as imported merchandise.
(iii)
Less than substantial damage and no export.
If an accident does not cause substantial damage to a commercial aircraft and the wrecked aircraft or any salvageable part of it is not exported, then:
(A) Entry is required to be made for the damaged aircraft or any salvageable part of it; and
(B) A duty payment, if applicable, based on the condition of the aircraft following the accident, is required.
§ 122.53
Aircraft of foreign registry chartered or leased to U.S. air carriers.
Aircraft of foreign registry leased or chartered to a U.S. air carrier, while being operated by the U.S. air carrier under the provisions of the Federal Aviation Administration regulations (14 CFR 121.153), shall be treated as U.S. registered aircraft for purposes of this subpart.
§ 122.54
Aircraft of foreign registry.
(a)
Application.
For any commercial aircraft of foreign registry arriving in the U.S., the aircraft commander or agent shall file for an international traffic permit when the aircraft;
(1) Is not an imported article; and
(2) Is ferried (proceeds carrying neither passengers nor cargo) from the airport of first arrival to one or more airports in the U.S. (For permit to proceed with residue cargo, passengers, or crewmembers for discharge in the U.S., see subpart I of this part).
(b)
International traffic permit.
The international traffic permit shall be filed on Customs Form 7507 by the carrier or its agent. Customs Form 7509 may be used if the aircraft arrives directly from Canada on a flight beginning in Canada and ending in the U.S. Either form shall show the following information and must be approved by the appropriate Customs officer:
(1) Type of aircraft;
(2) Nationality and registration number of aircraft;
(3) Name and country of aircraft manufacturer;
(4) Name of aircraft commander;
(5) Country from which aircraft arrived;
(6) Name and location of airport where international traffic permit is issued;
(7) Date international traffic permit is issued;
(8) Name and location of airport to which aircraft is proceeding;
(9) Purpose of stay in the U.S.;
(10) Signature of Customs officer giving permit.
(c)
Permit on board.
The international traffic permit shall be kept on board the aircraft while in the U.S.
(d)
Intermediate airports.
For each airport at which the aircraft lands, the Customs officer, or airport manager if there is no Customs officer present, shall note the following information on the permit:
(1) Name and location of the airport;
(2) Date and arrival time;
(3) Purpose of the visit;
(4) Name and location of the next airport to be visited; and
(5) Date and time of departure.
(e)
Final airport.
The international traffic permit shall be given to the Customs officer in charge at the airport of final clearance for a foreign destination. Before clearance is given, the Customs officer shall make sure that the aircraft was properly inspected by Customs in the U.S.
(f)
Port of issue.
The international traffic permit shall be returned after final clearance to the director of the port where the permit was issued, to be kept on file.
(g)
Enforcement.
Once the permit to proceed has been issued for an aircraft, the director of the port of issue must receive notice that the aircraft has made final clearance. If notice is not received within 60 days, the port director shall report the matter to the Customs agent in charge of the area for investigation.

# Subpart G—Clearance of Aircraft and Permission To Depart
§ 122.61
Aircraft required to clear.
(a) Private aircraft leaving the United States as defined in § 122.22, for a foreign area are required to clear as set forth in § 122.26. All other aircraft, except for public aircraft leaving the United States for a foreign area, are required to clear if:
(1) Carrying passengers and/or merchandise for hire; or
(2) Taking aboard or discharging passengers and/or merchandise for hire in a foreign area.
(b) Any aircraft used by members of air travel clubs are required to clear, and foreign aircraft traveling under a permit to proceed shall also clear.
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by CBP Dec. 08-43, 73 FR 68313, Nov. 18, 2008]
§ 122.62
Aircraft not otherwise required to clear.
(a)
Bureau of the Census.
Under Bureau of the Census Regulations (15 CFR part 30), aircraft not required to clear by § 122.61 shall obtain permission to depart if carrying merchandise from the U.S. to Puerto Rico or from Puerto Rico to the U.S.
(b)
Bureau of Industry and Security.
Aircraft leaving the U.S. for a foreign area must be cleared by Customs if a validated license from the Bureau of Industry and Security (Department of Commerce) is required for the aircraft under the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR parts 730 through 774). Aircraft are not required to clear if the Secretary of Commerce issues a permit allowing departure without clearance.
(c)
Department of State.
Aircraft not covered by Export Administration Regulations are subject to the Department of State export licensing authority as set out in 22 CFR parts 121 and 123. Such aircraft may depart from the U.S. only with the proper Department of State license.
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by T.D. 93-61, 58 FR 41425, Aug. 4, 1993; CBP Dec. 04-28, 69 FR 52599, Aug. 27, 2004; 69 FR 54179, Sept. 2, 2004]
§ 122.63
Scheduled airlines.
The aircraft commander or agent shall request clearance or permission to depart for aircraft of scheduled airlines covered by this subpart.
(a)
Clearance at other than airport of final departure.
Aircraft may clear at each airport where merchandise and/or passengers are taken on board for transport outside of the U.S. The clearance applies only to the merchandise and passengers boarding at each place. Clearance shall be requested at the Customs port of entry (regardless of whether it is an international airport) nearest to the place where merchandise and/or passengers are taken on board.
(b)
Clearance at final departure airport.
Clearance or permission to depart may be requested at the Customs port of entry (regardless of whether it is an international airport) nearest the last departure airport.
§ 122.64
Other aircraft.
Clearance or permission to depart shall be requested by the aircraft commander or agent for aircraft covered by this subpart other than those of scheduled airlines. The request must be made to the director of the port of entry (regardless of whether it is an international airport) nearest the final departure airport.
§ 122.65
Failure to depart.
Once an aircraft has been cleared or given permission to depart it must depart within 72 hours. The aircraft commander or agent shall report promptly to the port director if departure is delayed beyond or cancelled within 72 hours after the aircraft received clearance or permission to depart.
§ 122.66
Clearance or permission to depart denied.
If advance electronic air cargo information is not received as provided in § 192.14 of this chapter, Customs and Border Protection may deny clearance or permission for the aircraft to depart from the United States.
[CBP Dec. 03-32, 68 FR 68173, Dec. 5, 2003]

# Subpart H—Documents Required for Clearance and Permission To Depart; Electronic Manifest Requirements for Passengers, Crew Members, and Non-Crew Members Onboard Commercial Aircraft Departing From the United States
§ 122.71
Aircraft departing with no commercial export cargo.
(a)
Application.
This section applies to aircraft departing for foreign territory with no export cargo, but not to those aircraft which are themselves being exported.
(1) Such aircraft may clear by telephone in advance with the director of the port of departure if departing empty or carrying only:
(i) Passengers for hire; or
(ii) Non-commercial cargo for which Electronic Export Information (EEI) is not required.
(2) If not cleared by telephone, an air cargo manifest containing the following statement, signed by the aircraft commander or agent, must be submitted to CBP:
I declare to the best of my knowledge and belief that there is no cargo on board this aircraft.
Signature
(Aircraft Commander or Agent)
(b)
Timeliness.
The request for telephone clearance must be received by the CBP officer in charge with sufficient time remaining before departure to ensure that CBP may undertake any necessary examination of the aircraft and cargo.
(c)
Documentation.
If clearance is granted by telephone, the aircraft commander is not required to file the documents required by this subpart.
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by CBP Dec. 17-06, 82 FR 32238, July 13, 2017]
§ 122.72
Aircraft departing with commercial export cargo.
If an aircraft with export cargo leaves the U.S. for any foreign area, a general declaration, if required, an air cargo manifest and any required Electronic Export Information (EEI), must be filed in accordance with this subpart for all cargo on the aircraft, and for the aircraft itself if exported as merchandise. See § 122.79 for special requirements regarding shipments to U.S. possessions.
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by CBP Dec. 17-06, 82 FR 32238, July 13, 2017]
§ 122.73
General declaration and air cargo manifest.
(a)
General declaration
—(1)
Form.
The general declaration must be on CBP Form 7507 and must show all information required.
(2)
Preparation and filing.
The aircraft commander or agent must file two copies of the general declaration with CBP at the departure airport.
(3)
Exception.
A general declaration will not be required if the air cargo manifest, CBP Form 7509, contains the statement shown in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Air cargo manifest
—(1)
Form.
The air cargo manifest must be on CBP Form 7509, and must show all information required. If a general declaration is not presented, the following statement, signed by the aircraft commander or agent, must appear on the form:
I declare that all statements contained in this manifest, including the account of the cargo on board this aircraft, are complete, exact, and true to the best of my knowledge.
Signature
(Aircraft Commander or Agent)
(2)
Preparation and filing.
The aircraft commander or agent must file two copies of the air cargo manifest with the Customs at the departure airport. Three copies of the air cargo manifest must be filed if the aircraft is covered by § 122.77(b). The air cargo manifest must be filed in:
(i) Complete form, with all required Electronic Export Information (EEI) filing citations, exclusions, and/or exemption legends (see § 122.75); or
(ii) Incomplete form (pro forma) under § 122.74.
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by CBP Dec. 17-06, 82 FR 32238, July 13, 2017]
§ 122.74
Incomplete (pro forma) manifest.
(a)
Application
—(1)
Shipments to foreign countries.
Except for aircraft bound for foreign locations referred to in paragraph (b) of this section, clearance, or permission to depart may be given to an aircraft bound for a foreign location by the CBP at the departure airport before a complete manifest or all required Electronic Export Information (EEI) have been filed, if a proper bond is filed on CBP Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in subpart G of part 113 of this chapter.
(2)
Shipments to Puerto Rico.
As provided in § 122.79(b), any required air cargo manifest or EEI filing citations, exclusions, and/or exemption legends for direct flights between the United States and Puerto Rico must be filed with the appropriate CBP officer upon arrival in Puerto Rico. If any required manifest or EEI filing citations, exclusions, and/or exemption legends are not filed with the appropriate CBP officer
within one business day after arrival in Puerto Rico, a proper bond must be filed at that time on CBP Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in subpart G of part 113 of this chapter.
(b)
Exceptions.
In the following circumstances, an incomplete manifest will not be accepted and a complete air cargo manifest and all required EEI must be filed with the port director before the aircraft will be cleared:
(1) During any time covered by a proclamation of the President that a state of war exists between foreign nations; or
(2) If the aircraft is departing on a flight from the U.S. directly or indirectly to a foreign country listed in § 4.75 of this chapter.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# ):
In both cases, a complete air cargo manifest and all required Shipper's Export Declarations shall be filed with the port director before the aircraft will be cleared.
(c)
Filing under bond.
An incomplete set of documents may be filed only when accompanied by the proper bond. Under the bond, a complete set of documents shall be filed within whichever of the following time periods is appropriate:
(1)
Shipments to foreign countries.
All required EEI and a complete air cargo manifest must be filed by the airline not later than the fourth business day after clearance (when clearance is required) or departure (when clearance is not required) of the aircraft.
(2)
Shipments to and from Puerto Rico.
For shipments from the U.S. to Puerto Rico, the complete manifest (when required) and all required EEI must be filed not later than the seventh business day after arrival into Puerto Rico. For shipments from Puerto Rico to the U.S., the complete manifest (when required) and all required EEI must be filed not later than the seventh business day after departure from Puerto Rico.
(3)
Shipments to U.S. possessions.
For shipments between the U.S. or Puerto Rico and possessions of the U.S., a complete manifest and all required EEI must be filed by the airline not later than the seventh business day after departure. See § 122.79.
(d)
Declaration required.
A declaration shall be made on the incomplete manifest that:
(1) All required documents will be filed within the 4-day bond period; or
(2) All required documents will be filed within the 7-day bond period.
Once all documents have been filed, a statement as required by § 122.75(b) shall be made.
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by T.D. 93-61, 58 FR 41425, Aug. 4, 1993; CBP Dec. 17-06, 82 FR 32238, July 13, 2017]
§ 122.75
Complete manifest.
(a)
Contents.
A complete air cargo manifest must list all cargo laden, and show for each item the air waybill number, or marks and numbers on packages and the type of goods carried. If an item does not require a Electronic Export Information (EEI) filing citations, exemptions, and/or exclusion legends, it must be noted on the air cargo manifest.
(1)
Shipments on an air waybill.
A copy of each air waybill on which shipments are listed may be attached to the air cargo manifest, and the number of the air waybill may be listed on the air cargo manifest. The statement “Cargo as per Air Waybill Attached” must appear on the air cargo manifest if this is done.
(2)
Direct departure.
With regard to direct departures of shipments requiring EEI, each EEI filing citation must be listed on the air cargo manifest in the column for air waybill numbers. The statement “Electronic Information Annotated” must appear on the manifest if this is done.
(b)
Statement required.
(1) When all required documents are ready for filing, the following statement must appear on the air cargo manifest, or on the general declaration form if an air cargo manifest is not required:
The annotated EEI filing citations, exclusions, and/or exemption legends represent a full and complete enumeration and description of the cargo carried in this flight except that listed on the cargo manifest.
(2) If an incomplete set of documents has been filed and is later completed,
the following statement must accompany the EEI filing citations, exclusions, and/or exemption legends and any required air cargo manifests:
The annotated EEI filing citations, exclusions, and/or exemption legends represent a full and complete enumeration and description of the cargo carried on aircraft No. ________, Flight No. ________ cleared direct for ________, on ________ except cargo listed on any cargo manifest required to be filed for such flight.
Airline
Authorized Agent
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by CBP Dec. 17-06, 82 FR 32239, July 13, 2017]
§ 122.75a
Electronic manifest requirement for passengers onboard commercial aircraft departing from the United States.
(a)
Definitions.
The definitions set forth in § 122.49a(a) also apply for purposes of this section.
(b)
Electronic departure manifest
—(1)
General
—(i)
Basic requirement.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, an appropriate official of each commercial aircraft (carrier) departing from the United States en route to any port or place outside the United States must transmit to the Advance Passenger Information System (APIS; referred to in this section as the Customs and Border Protection (CBP) system), the electronic data interchange system approved by CBP for such transmissions, an electronic passenger departure manifest covering all passengers checked in for the flight. A passenger manifest must be transmitted separately from a crew member manifest required under § 122.75b if transmission is in U.S. EDIFACT format. The passenger manifest must be transmitted to the CBP system at the place and time specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, in the manner set forth under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(ii)
Transmission of manifests.
A carrier required to make passenger departure manifest transmissions to the CBP system under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section must make the required transmissions covering all passengers checked in for the flight in accordance with either paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section, as follows:
(A)
Non-interactive batch transmission option.
A carrier that chooses not to transmit required passenger manifests by means of a CBP-certified interactive electronic transmission system under paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(B), (C), or (D) of this section must make batch manifest transmissions in accordance with this paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) by means of a non-interactive electronic transmission system approved by CBP. The carrier may make a single, complete batch manifest transmission containing the data required under paragraph (b)(3) of this section for all passengers checked in for the flight or two or more partial batch manifest transmissions, each containing the required data for the identified passengers and which together cover all passengers checked in for the flight. After receipt of the manifest information, the CBP system will perform an initial security vetting of the data and send to the carrier by a non-interactive transmission method a “not-cleared” instruction for passengers identified as requiring additional security analysis and a “selectee” instruction for passengers requiring secondary screening (e.g., additional examination of the person and/or his baggage) under applicable Transportation Security Administration (TSA) requirements. The carrier must designate as a “selectee” any passenger so identified during initial security vetting, in accordance with applicable TSA requirements. The carrier must not issue a boarding pass to, or load the baggage of, any passenger subject to the “not-cleared” instruction and must contact the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to seek resolution of the “not-cleared” instruction by providing, if necessary, additional relevant information relative to the “not-cleared” passenger. TSA will notify the carrier if a “not-cleared” passenger is cleared for boarding or downgraded to “selectee” status based on the additional security analysis.
(B)
Interactive batch transmission option.
A carrier, upon obtaining CBP certification, in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(E) of this section, may make manifest transmissions by means of an interactive electronic transmission system configured for batch transmission of data and receipt from
the CBP system of appropriate messages. A carrier operating under this paragraph must make manifest transmissions by transmitting a single, complete batch manifest containing the data required under paragraph (b)(3) of this section for all passengers checked in for the flight or two or more partial batch manifests, each containing the required data for the identified passengers and which together cover all passengers checked in for the flight. In the case of connecting passengers arriving at the connecting airport already in possession of boarding passes for a flight departing from the United States whose data have not been collected by the carrier, the carrier must transmit required manifest data for these passengers when they arrive at the gate, or some other suitable place designated by the carrier, for the flight. After receipt of the manifest information, the CBP system will perform an initial security vetting of the data and send to the carrier by interactive electronic transmission, as appropriate, a “cleared” instruction for passengers not matching against the watch list, a “not-cleared” instruction for passengers identified as requiring additional security analysis, and a “selectee” instruction for passengers who require secondary screening (e.g., additional examination of the person and/or his baggage) under applicable TSA requirements. The carrier must designate as a “selectee” any passenger so identified during initial security vetting, in accordance with applicable TSA requirements. The carrier must not issue a boarding pass to, or load the baggage of, any passenger subject to a “not-cleared” instruction and, in the case of connecting passengers (as described in this paragraph), the carrier must not board or load the baggage of any such passenger until the CBP system returns a “cleared” or “selectee” response for that passenger. Where a “selectee” instruction is received for a connecting passenger, the carrier must ensure that such passenger undergoes secondary screening before boarding. The carrier must seek resolution of a “not-cleared” instruction by contacting TSA and providing, if necessary, additional relevant information relative to the “not-cleared” passenger. Upon completion of the additional security analysis, TSA will notify the carrier if a “not-cleared” passenger is cleared for boarding or downgraded to “selectee” status based on the additional security analysis. No later than 30 minutes after the securing of the aircraft, the carrier must transmit to the CBP system a message reporting any passengers who checked in but were not onboard the flight. The message must identify the passengers by a unique identifier selected or devised by the carrier or by specific passenger data (name) and may contain the unique identifiers or data for all passengers onboard the flight or for only those passengers who checked in but were not onboard the flight.
(C)
Interactive individual passenger information transmission option.
A carrier, upon obtaining CBP certification, in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(E) of this section, may make manifest transmissions by means of an interactive electronic transmission system configured for transmitting individual passenger data for each passenger and for receiving from the CBP system appropriate messages. A carrier operating under this paragraph must make such transmissions as individual passengers check in for the flight or, in the case of connecting passengers arriving at the connecting airport already in possession of boarding passes for a flight departing from the United States whose data have not been collected by the carrier, as these connecting passengers arrive at the gate, or some other suitable place designated by the carrier for the flight. With each transmission of manifest information by the carrier, the CBP system will perform an initial security vetting of the data and send to the carrier by interactive electronic transmission, as appropriate, a “cleared” instruction for passengers not matching against the watch list, a “not-cleared” instruction for passengers identified during initial security vetting as requiring additional security analysis, and a “selectee” instruction for passengers requiring secondary screening (e.g., additional examination of the person and/or his baggage) under applicable TSA requirements. The carrier must designate as a “selectee” any passenger so identified
during initial security vetting, in accordance with applicable TSA requirements. The carrier must not issue a boarding pass to, or load the baggage of, any passenger subject to a “not-cleared” instruction and, in the case of connecting passengers (as described in this paragraph), must not board or load the baggage of any such passenger until the CBP system returns a “cleared” or “selectee” response for that passenger. Where a “selectee” instruction is received for a connecting passenger, the carrier must ensure that such passenger undergoes secondary screening before boarding. The carrier must seek resolution of a “not-cleared” instruction by contacting TSA and providing, if necessary, additional relevant information relative to the “not-cleared” passenger. Upon completion of the additional security analysis, TSA will notify the carrier if a “not-cleared” passenger is cleared for boarding or downgraded to “selectee” status based on the additional security analysis. No later than 30 minutes after the securing of the aircraft, the carrier must transmit to the CBP system a message reporting any passengers who checked in but were not onboard the flight. The message must identify the passengers by a unique identifier selected or devised by the carrier or by specific passenger data (name) and may contain the unique identifiers or data for all passengers onboard the flight or for only those passengers who checked in but were not onboard the flight.
(D)
Combined use of interactive methods.
If certified to do so, a carrier may make transmissions under both paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section for a particular flight or for different flights.
(E)
Certification.
Before making any required manifest transmissions under paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(B) or (C) of this section, a carrier must subject its electronic transmission system to CBP testing, and CBP must certify that the carrier's system is then presently capable of interactively communicating with the CBP system for effective transmission of manifest data and receipt of appropriate messages under those paragraphs.
(2)
Place and time for submission.
The appropriate official specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section (carrier) must transmit the departure manifest or manifest data as required under paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section to the CBP system (CBP Data Center, CBP Headquarters), in accordance with the following:
(i) For manifests transmitted under paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section, no later than 30 minutes prior to the securing of the aircraft;
(ii) For manifest information transmitted under paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(C) of this section, no later than the securing of the aircraft; and
(iii) For an aircraft operating as an air ambulance in service of a medical emergency, no later than 30 minutes after departure.
(3)
Information required.
The electronic passenger departure manifest required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section must contain the following information for all passengers, except that the information specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(iv), (ix), and (xi) of this section must be included on the manifest only on or after October 4, 2005:
(i) Full name (last, first, and, if available, middle);
(ii) Date of birth;
(iii) Gender (F = female; M = male);
(iv) Citizenship;
(v) Status on board the aircraft;
(vi) Travel document type (
e.g.
, P = passport; A = alien registration card);
(vii) Passport number, if a passport is required;
(viii) Passport country of issuance, if a passport is required;
(ix) Passport expiration date, if a passport is required;
(x) Alien registration number, where applicable;
(xi) Passenger Name Record locator, if available;
(xii) International Air Transport Association (IATA) departure port code;
(xiii) IATA code of port/place of final arrival (foreign port code);
(xiv) Airline carrier code;
(xv) Flight number; and
(xvi) Date of aircraft departure.
(c)
Exception.
The electronic passenger departure manifest specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is not
required for active duty military personnel traveling as passengers on board a departing Department of Defense commercial chartered aircraft.
(d)
Carrier responsibility for comparing information collected with travel document.
The carrier collecting the information described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section is responsible for comparing the travel document presented by the passenger with the travel document information it is transmitting to CBP in accordance with this section in order to ensure that the information is correct, the document appears to be valid for travel purposes, and the passenger is the person to whom the travel document was issued.
(e)
Sharing of manifest information.
Information contained in the passenger manifest required under this section that is received by CBP electronically may, upon request, be shared with other Federal agencies for the purpose of protecting national security. CBP may also share such information as otherwise authorized by law.
[CBP Dec. 05-12, 70 FR 17855, Apr. 7, 2005, as amended by CBP Dec. 07-64, 72 FR 48344, Aug. 23, 2007]
§ 122.75b
Electronic manifest requirement for crew members and non-crew members onboard commercial aircraft departing from the United States.
(a)
Definitions.
The definitions set forth in § 122.49a(a) also apply for purposes of this section, except that the definitions of “all-cargo flight,” “carrier,” “crew member,” and “non-crew member” applicable to this section are found in § 122.49b(a).
(b)
Electronic departure manifest
—(1)
General requirement.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, an appropriate official of each commercial aircraft departing from the United States to any port or place outside the United States must transmit to Customs and Border Protection (CBP) an electronic crew member departure manifest and, for all-cargo flights only, an electronic non-crew member departure manifest covering any crew members and non-crew members onboard. Each manifest must be transmitted to CBP at the place and time specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section by means of an electronic data interchange system approved by CBP and must set forth the information specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. Where both a crew member departure manifest and a non-crew member departure manifest are required for an all-cargo flight, they must be combined in one departure manifest covering both crew members and non-crew members. Where a passenger departure manifest under § 122.75a and a crew member departure manifest under this section are required, they must be transmitted separately if the transmission is in US EDIFACT format.
(2)
Place and time for submission; certification; change to manifest
—(i)
Place and time for submission.
The appropriate official specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must transmit the electronic departure manifest required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section to the CBP Data Center, CBP Headquarters, no later than 60 minutes prior to departure of the aircraft, except that for an air ambulance in service of a medical emergency, the manifest must be transmitted to CBP no later than 30 minutes after departure.
(ii)
Certification.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the appropriate official, by transmitting the manifest as required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, certifies that the flight's crew members and non-crew members are included, respectively, on the master crew member list or master non-crew member list previously submitted to CBP in accordance with § 122.49c. If a crew member or non-crew member on the manifest is not also included on the appropriate master list, the flight may be denied clearance to depart.
(iii)
Changes to manifest.
The appropriate official is obligated to make necessary changes to the crew member or non-crew member departure manifest after transmission of the manifest to CBP. Necessary changes include adding a name, with other required information, to the manifest or amending previously submitted information. If changes are submitted less than 60 minutes before scheduled flight departure, the air carrier must receive approval from TSA before allowing the
flight to depart or the flight may be denied clearance to depart.
(3)
Information required.
The electronic crew member and non-crew member departure manifests required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section must contain the following information for all crew members and non-crew members, except that the information specified in paragraphs (b)(iii), (v), (vi), (xii), and (xiv) of this section must be included on the manifest only on or after October 4, 2005:
(i) Full name (last, first, and, if available, middle);
(ii) Date of birth;
(iii) Place of birth (city, state—if applicable, country);
(iv) Gender (F = female; M = male);
(v) Citizenship;
(vi) Address of permanent residence;
(vii) Status on board the aircraft;
(viii) Pilot certificate number and country of issuance (if applicable);
(ix) Travel document type (
e.g.
, P = passport; A = alien registration card);
(x) Passport number, if a passport is required;
(xi) Passport country of issuance, if a passport is required;
(xii) Passport expiration date, if a passport is required;
(xiii) Alien registration number, where applicable;
(xiv) Passenger Name Record locator, if available;
(xv) International Air Transport Association (IATA) departure port code;
(xvi) IATA code of port/place of final arrival (foreign port code);
(xvii) Airline carrier code;
(xviii) Flight number; and
(xix) Date of aircraft departure.
(c)
Exceptions.
The electronic departure manifest requirement specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is subject to the following conditions:
(1) Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Aviation Safety Inspectors with valid credentials and authorization are not subject to the requirement, but the manifest requirement of § 122.75a applies to these inspectors, as they are considered passengers on departing flights;
(2) For crew members traveling onboard departing aircraft chartered by the U.S. Department of Defense, the provisions of this section apply regarding electronic transmission of the manifest, except that:
(i) The manifest certification provision of paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section is inapplicable; and
(ii) The TSA manifest change approval requirement of paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section is inapplicable; and
(3) For non-crew members traveling onboard a departing all-cargo flight chartered by the U.S. Department of Defense, the manifest is not required, but the manifest requirement of § 122.75a applies to these persons, as, in this instance, they are considered passengers on departing flights.
(d)
Carrier responsibility for comparing information collected with travel document.
The carrier collecting the information described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section is responsible for comparing the travel document presented by the crew member or non-crew member with the travel document information it is transmitting to CBP in accordance with this section in order to ensure that the information is correct, the document appears to be valid for travel, and the crew member or non-crew member is the person to whom the travel document was issued.
(e)
Sharing of manifest information.
Information contained in the crew member and non-crew member manifests required under this section that is received by CBP electronically may, upon request, be shared with other Federal agencies for the purpose of protecting national security. CBP may also share such information as otherwise authorized by law.
(f)
Master crew member and non-crew member lists.
Air carriers subject to the requirements of this section must also comply with the requirements of § 122.49c pertaining to the electronic transmission of a master crew member list and a master non-crew member list as applied to flights departing from the United States.
(g)
Superseding amendments issued by TSA.
One or more of the requirements of this section may be superseded by provisions of, amendments to, or alternative procedures authorized by TSA for compliance with an aviation security program, emergency amendment, or security directive issued by the TSA
to an air carrier subject to the provisions of 49 CFR part 1544, 1546, or 1550. The amendments will have superseding effect only for the airline to which issued and only for the period of time they remain in effect.
[CBP Dec. 05-12, 70 FR 17855, Apr. 7, 2005]
§ 122.76
Electronic Export Information (EEI) filing citations, exclusions, and/or exemption legends and inspection certificates.
(a)
Electronic Export Information (EEI)
—(1)
Other than shipments to Puerto Rico.
For shipments other than to Puerto Rico, at the time of clearance, the aircraft commander or agent must file with the CBP port director of the departure airport any EEI filing citations, exclusions, and/or exemption legends required by the Census Bureau's Foreign Trade Regulations (FTR) (see 15 CFR part 30).
(2)
Shipments to Puerto Rico.
For flights carrying shipments to Puerto Rico from the United States, the aircraft commander or agent must file any EEI filing citations, exclusions, and/or exemption legends required by the Census Bureau's FTR (see 15 CFR part 30) upon arrival in Puerto Rico with the CBP port director there.
(b)
Inspection certificates.
The aircraft commander or authorized agent must deliver a proper export inspection certificate issued by the Veterinary Service, Animal and Plant Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (9 CFR part 91), to the CBP officer in charge at the time of departure of any aircraft carrying horses, mules, asses, cattle, sheep, swine, or goats.
[T.D. 93-61, 58 FR 41426, Aug. 4, 1993, as amended by CBP Dec. 17-06, 82 FR 32239, July 13, 2017]
§ 122.77
Clearance certificate.
(a)
Aircraft departing from the U.S.
One copy of the air cargo manifest shall be used as a clearance certificate when endorsed by the port director to show that clearance is granted.
(b)
Scheduled aircraft.
If a scheduled aircraft clears at an airport which is not the airport at or nearest the place of final take-off from the U.S., two copies of the air cargo manifest shall be filed. One copy shall be used as a clearance certificate when endorsed by the director of the port where clearance is obtained, and the second copy shall be attached to the first for use at subsequent U.S. ports.
§ 122.78
Entry or withdrawal for exportation or for transportation and exportation.
If a shipment is exported under an entry or withdrawal for exportation, or for transportation and exportation, the air cargo manifest, the air waybill, or the consignment note attached to the manifest shall clearly show the following information for each entry or withdrawal:
(a) Number;
(b) Date; and
(c) Class of entry or withdrawal, as follows:
(1) Transportation and exportation;
(2) Withdrawal for transportation and exportation;
(3) Immediate exportation;
(4) Withdrawal for exportation; or
(5) Withdrawal for transportation.
The name of the port where the entry or withdrawal was filed, if not the port where the merchandise is laden for exportation, shall also appear on the air cargo manifest.
§ 122.79
Shipments to U.S. possessions.
(a)
Other than Puerto Rico.
An air cargo manifest must be filed for aircraft transporting cargo between the United States and U.S. possessions. Electronic Export Information (EEI) is not required for shipments from the United States or Puerto Rico to the U.S. possessions, except to the U.S. Virgin Islands or from a U.S. possession and destined to the United States, Puerto Rico, or another U.S. possession.
(b)
Puerto Rico.
When an aircraft carries merchandise on a direct flight from the United States to Puerto Rico, any required air cargo manifest or EEI filing citations, exclusions, and/or exemption legends, must be filed with the appropriate port director Puerto Rico.
[CBP Dec. 17-06, 82 FR 32239, July 13, 2017]
§ 122.80
Verification of statement.
Customs officers may verify any of the statements required under this subpart by examining the shipping records of the airline involved.

# Subpart I—Procedures for Residue Cargo and Stopover Passengers
§ 122.81
Application.
(a)
Aircraft arriving with cargo.
Aircraft arriving in the U.S. from a foreign area with cargo shown on the manifest to be traveling to other airports in the U.S. or to foreign areas may proceed under the provisions of this subpart.
(b)
Aircraft arriving with no cargo.
Aircraft arriving in the U.S. from a foreign area with no cargo on board, and requesting immediate examination and release, may proceed if a bond on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in subpart G of part 113 of this chapter, has been filed and covers the aircraft.
§ 122.82
Bond requirements.
A bond on Customs Form 301, containing the bond provisions set forth in subpart G of part 113 of this chapter, shall be filed before an aircraft is given a permit to proceed with residue cargo under this subpart. The bond shall be filed in the correct amount with the director of the entry airport.
§ 122.83
Forms required.
(a)
Traveling general declaration and manifest.
When applying for examination and release from an airport or place of entry in the U.S., the aircraft commander or agent shall file a traveling general declaration and manifest. The traveling general declaration and manifest is one certified copy of the original inward general declaration, and each air cargo manifest required when the aircraft entered. This includes air waybills that were part of the manifest.
(b)
Attachments to traveling general declaration and manifest
—(1)
Crew purchase and stores list.
The crew purchase and stores list, if required when the aircraft enters under §§ 122.46 and 122.47, shall be attached to the traveling general declaration and manifest.
(2)
Crew purchases not listed on a crew purchase list.
A crew member's declaration shall be attached to the traveling general declaration and manifest if:
(i) Crew purchases are listed on a crew declaration, Customs Form 5129, instead of on the crew purchase list, under § 122.46(c)(2); and
(ii) The crew member has not left the aircraft with his or her purchase at the first entry port.
The crew member's declaration must be attached at the port where the articles listed on the declaration receive clearance.
(c)
Abstract general declaration and manifest.
The abstract general declaration and manifest shall consist of one copy of the general declaration, and one copy of each manifest (including air waybills) covering residue cargo:
(1) Not yet examined and released by Customs or any other Federal agency; and
(2) To be discharged at another domestic or foreign airport.
An abstract general declaration and manifest need not be filed at the last domestic port of discharge.
(d)
Permit to proceed.
A permit to proceed from one domestic airport to another shall be filed by the aircraft commander or agent with the Customs officer in charge at the clearance airport. The permit to proceed shall include a declaration by the aircraft commander or agent, which shall be signed on entry at the next domestic airport. The permit to proceed and declaration shall state substantially the following:

# Permit To Proceed From One Airport to Another
Airport of Departure
Date
Permission is hereby given aircraft __________ to proceed to __________
(Next Domestic Airport)
The aircraft which has arrived from and is destined to the places shown in the general declaration, is proceeding to such places of destination to discharge residue cargo, passengers, or crew members and their purchases, as listed in the attached manifest. Bond was given at the airport of arrival for the cargo retained on board. Items of cargo manifested for delivery at this airport appear to have been landed.
Number of crew members not cleared by Customs ________.
Number of passengers not cleared by Customs ________.
Number of pages of the traveling
manifest ________.
(Customs Officer and Title)

# Declaration on Entry of Aircraft at Following Airport
Airport of Arrival
Date
I, __________, commander or authorized agent of the aircraft identified in this document, declare and guarantee that there were not, when such aircraft departed from the airport of ________, nor have been since, nor now are, any more or other goods, wares, or merchandise on board than was stated in the attached manifests.
(Signature and Title)
The permit to proceed and declaration must be stamped, mimeographed or printed on:
(1) The abstract general declaration;
(2) The traveling general declaration when an abstract general declaration is not required; or
(3) A separate sheet of paper.
(e)
Permit to proceed for nonscheduled aircraft.
For each permit to proceed issued to a nonscheduled aircraft carrying residue cargo the transit air cargo manifest procedures shall be followed. When the aircraft arrives at the final port, the aircraft commander shall deliver the permit to proceed to Customs.
(f)
Use of form.
When all of the documents required by this section are in order, the permit to proceed shall be dated and signed by the Customs officer in charge at the clearance airport. One copy of the permit to proceed shall be delivered to the aircraft commander or agent with the other required documents, for filing at the next international airport.
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988; T.D. 00-22, 65 FR 16518, Mar. 29, 2000]
§ 122.84
Intermediate airport.
(a)
Application.
The provisions of this section apply at any U.S. airport to which an aircraft proceeds with residue cargo, and passengers, or crewmembers and their purchases not cleared by Customs. They do not apply to aircraft arriving at the last domestic port of discharge.
(b)
Entry.
When an aircraft arrives at the next airport, the aircraft commander or agent shall make entry by filing the:
(1) Abstract general declaration and manifest;
(2) Traveling general declaration and manifest; and
(3) Permit to proceed.
The
Declaration on Entry of Aircraft at Following Airport,
found on the permit to proceed, shall be properly signed before filing for entry.
(c)
Crew declarations.
The declarations and entries, Customs Form 5129, of any crewmembers who leave the aircraft with their purchases at the intermediate airport shall be detached from the traveling general manifest. The declaration and entries are to be detached by the Customs officer in charge and are kept at the airport.
(d)
Departure.
When the aircraft leaves an intermediate airport carrying residue cargo, and passengers or crewmembers and their purchases are not yet cleared by Customs or another interested Federal agency, the procedure is the same as at the first arrival airport. All documents required by this section, except those detached under paragraph (c) of this secticn, shall be returned to the aircraft commander or agent for filing at the next entry airport.
§ 122.85
Final airport.
When an aircraft enters at the last domestic airport of discharge, the traveling general declaration and manifest shall be filed with Customs and kept at the airport. No abstract general declaration and manifest is required.
§ 122.86
Substitution of aircraft.
(a)
Application.
The residue cargo procedure applies when an airline must substitute aircraft to reach a destination due to weather conditions or operational factors which prevent an aircraft on arrival of the flight at the first port from continuing inbound to interior ports scheduled for that flight.
(b)
Clearance and entry.
Clearance and entry of substitute aircraft is required as provided in this subpart for other aircraft.
(c)
Identification.
An identification of all substitute aircraft shall be clearly made on all clearance and entry documents.
(d)
Transporting cargo
—(1)
Forwarding.
The carrier may forward all cargo which arrived on one aircraft by transferring it to another aircraft of
the same airline to complete the inbound flight. The transfer shall be done under Customs supervision.
(2)
Conditions.
All of the residue cargo from more than one inbound flight of an airline may be laden on one substitute aircraft of the airline. The substitute aircraft shall finish the inbound transport of the residue cargo.
§ 122.87
Other requirements.
Section 4.85 of this chapter, relating to vessels with residue cargo for domestic ports, applies to aircraft residue cargo, except as stated in this subpart.
§ 122.88
Aircraft carrying domestic (stopover) passengers.
Airlines that commingle domestic (stopover) passengers (that is, passengers who have already cleared Customs at their port of arrival and are continuing on another aircraft to a second U.S. destination) with international passengers who are continuing on the flight to their port of arrival and have not yet cleared Customs, must comply with certain requirements before being issued a permit to proceed. The carriers requirements are as follows:
(a) The domestic (stopover) passengers must be transported on U.S.-registered aircraft, or foreign-registered aircraft of the same foreign airline that brought them into the U.S.
(b) A $2.00 charge must be paid for each revenue producing domestic (stopover) passenger reinspected in the U.S. (see § 24.12 of this chapter).
(c) Arrangements must be made for the checked baggage of all passengers requiring inspection on the previously described flights to be off-loaded and made available for examination in the Federal inspection area at the destination port (intermediate or final) where an inspection is to take place.
(d) All stopover passengers shall be notified in writing, prior to boarding, that they will be subject to full reinspection by Customs. This written notification shall contain the following language: “Notice to all boarding passengers: You are boarding an aircraft on which passengers will be arriving in the U.S. from foreign destinations. These passengers have not yet cleared U.S. Customs. Accordingly, you will be subject to a full reinspection by Customs at your final U.S. port of entry.”
(e) Domestic (stopover) passengers shall be provided a Customs declaration identified by the words “Domestic Flight”. The domestic (stopover) passenger is only required to complete items 1-4 on that declaration.
(f) The carrier shall present to Customs, as otherwise required by law, the permit to proceed and/or the general declaration, clearly stating the number of domestic (stopover) passengers to be reinspected upon arrival at the destination port (intermediate or final) where an inspection of passengers is to take place.

# Subpart J—Transportation in Bond and Merchandise in Transit
§ 122.91
Application.
This subpart applies to the transportation in bond of merchandise arriving in the U.S. by aircraft and entered:
(a) For immediate transportation to another airport without appraisement; or
(b) For transportation through the U.S. and later exportation by aircraft.
§ 122.92
Procedure at port of origin.
(a)
Forms required
—(1)
Customs Form 7512 or other document.
Customs Form 7512 or other Customs approved documents, such as an air waybill (see paragraph (a)(3) of this section), shall be used for both entry and manifest. Three copies of the form or other document are required to be filed with Customs at the port of origin for merchandise for immediate transportation without appraisement. Four copies of the form or other document are required when merchandise for transportation and exportation is entered. (See also, §§ 18.11 and 18.20(a) of this chapter). Each copy shall be signed by the carrier or its authorized agent.
(2)
Air Waybill.
An air waybill may be used for both entry and manifest. Three copies of the air waybill are required unless the port director deems additional copies necessary. Photocopies of the original air waybill are acceptable. Either preprinted stock air waybills or electronically generated air waybills may be used. The air waybill must:
(i) Contain the information required of a universal air waybill as recognized and accepted by the International Air Transport Association (IATA), be legible and in the English language;
(ii) Display a unique 11-digit number, the first three digits being the air carrier's identification code;
(iii) Display the number of packages based on the smallest external packaging unit (
e.g.,
14 packages is acceptable, 1 pallet is unacceptable);
(iv) Display the name of the final port of destination in the U.S. or the name of the ultimate country of destination of the cargo indicated by available air carrier shipping documents. The ultimate destination must be shown even though the air transportation may be scheduled to terminate in a country prior to the cargo's final destination;
(v) Be modified to contain the following information which should appear in a block or attachment in the upper right-hand corner as in this example. The numbers 1-8 correspond to the descriptions that follow; the numbers do not have to appear on the AWB:
(1)
Origin
(2)
Entry Type
(3)
Destination
(4)
Importing Carrier/Flight Number/Arrival Date
(5)
Bonded Carrier/Exporter
(6)
Date
(7)
Signature of Carrier's Agent
(or Exporter)
(8)
Customs Officer Date
The item numbers correspond to the following information:
Item 1—Origin—
The numeric port code as listed in Schedule D of the Harmonized Tariff Schedules of the United States, or the port where the in-bond entry is presented.
Item 2—Entry type—
The appropriate in-bond code number such as I.T./61 for Immediate Transportation, T
E/62 for Transportation and Exportation, and I.E./63 for Immediate Exportation.
Item 3—Destination—
The numeric port code for the intended port of destination for entry or exportation.
Item 4—Importing Carrier/Flight Number/Arrival Date—
This information serves to identify the shipment in terms of the inward foreign manifest of the importing carrier. The “Arrival Date” is the date of arrival of the importing conveyance in the U.S. The information must be supplied in all instances.
Item 5—Bonded Carrier/Exporter—
The bonded carrier or exporter who will be liable for the proper movement, handling, and safekeeping of the merchandise once the in-bond movement is authorized by Customs. If this information is not supplied, the in-bond movement will be carried out under the bond of the importing carrier. (See Item 7 for further information on transfer of liability.)
Item 6—Date—
The date of the in-bond entry preparation. Since an in-bond entry can be prepared before the date of entry presentation and/or acceptance, and prior to the actual arrival of the importing conveyance, this date should only be used for duty assessment purposes when the date in Item 8 is left blank. If a date is not present, the date of in-bond preparation will be deemed to be the date of arrival.
Item 7—Signature of Carrier's Agent (or Exporter)—
This signature of the authorized agent of the bonded carrier or exporter identified previously (See Item 5) constitutes acceptance of the liability for the in-bond shipment by the party signing. A signature is required except when the in-bond movement is under the bond of the importing carrier. If unsigned, the submission to Customs of an AWB requesting such a movement is evidence of the acceptance of liability if the AWB is approved by Customs.
Item 8—Customs Officer/Date—
Signature of the Customs officer who authorizes the initiation of the in-bond movement and the date of such authorization. Customs will check to make sure merchandise is released only to a bonded carrier. The date is used to start the time limit for completion of the in-bond movement and for consumption entry purposes in accord with § 141.69(b)
of this chapter. Customs authorization procedures which use a perforation device are acceptable in lieu of the appropriate Customs signature. The port director will determine whether a signature will be required in this block prior to the time that the cargo is allowed to move.
(b)
Delivery of Customs form to carrier
—(1)
Merchandise entered for immediate transportation without appraisement.
When merchandise is entered for immediate transportation without appraisement, two copies of Customs Form 7512 or other Customs approved document shall be delivered to the carrier.
(2)
Merchandise entered for transportation and exportation.
When merchandise is entered for transportation and exportation, one copy of Customs For 7512 and any other Customs approved document shall be delivered to the carrier.
(3)
After delivery.
After delivery, the forms or other document shall accompany the merchandise to the port of destination or exportation.
(c)
Receipt and supervision.
The agent of a bonded air carrier shall give a receipt for any merchandise delivered to it for transportation in bond, and no supervision of the lading of the merchandise on the transporting aircraft shall be required.
(d)
Split shipment
—(1)
Departure within 24 hours.
Merchandise covered by a single entry and manifest (Customs Form 7512 or other Customs approved document) may be sent to the destination airport on one or more aircraft. A separate manifest for each aircraft is not required if the whole shipment is sent within a single 24-hour period.
(2)
Departure not within 24 hours.
If any part of a shipment is sent more than 24 hours after the first part was sent, the entry and manifest copy which accompanies the first shipment shall state that the rest of the shipment will follow by separate aircraft. A single manifest shall be prepared for each part of the shipment sent by separate aircraft. The manifest shall be used as notice of each arrival at the destination airport.
(e)
Transhipment.
Merchandise sent under bond may be transferred at an intermediate airport to one or more aircraft of the same airline. This may be done without Customs supervision and notice of the transfer is not required. If merchandise covered by one entry and manifest is transferred to more than one aircraft, paragraph (d) of this section applies.
(f)
Sealing not required.
The sealing of aircraft, aircraft compartments carrying bonded merchandise, or the cording and sealing of bonded packages carried by the aircraft, is not required.
(g)
Warning labels.
The carrier shall supply and attach the warning label, as described in § 18.4(b)(3) of this chapter, to each bonded package.
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by T.D. 92-82, 57 FR 38276, Aug. 24, 1992; T.D. 00-22, 65 FR 16518, Mar. 29, 2000; CBP Dec. 17-13, 82 FR 45405, Sept. 28, 2017]
§ 122.93
Procedure at destination or exportation airport.
(a)
Delivery to port director.
When a bonded shipment arrives at the destination or exportation airport, the aircraft commander or agent shall deliver one copy of the entry and manifest (Customs Form 7512 or other Customs approved document) covering the shipment to the port director of that airport as notice of arrival. If the shipment was sent by separate aircraft more than 24 hours after the first part of the shipment was sent, then a manifest for each part of the shipment shall be delivered to the port director.
(b)
Delivery to consignee.
When the merchandise is sent under an entry for immediate transportation without appraisal, one copy of the manifest covering the merchandise shall be delivered by the carrier to the consignee. This copy is used to make entry, and may also be used as a carrier certificate as provided in § 141.11(a)(4) of this chapter.
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988; T.D. 00-22, 65 FR 16518, Mar. 29, 2000]
§ 122.94
Certificate of lading for exportation.
(a)
Required filing.
This section applies to merchandise entered for transportation and exportation by aircraft. A certificate of lading for exportation and a Customs Form 7512 or other Customs approved document (see § 122.93 of this subpart) shall be filed when the
merchandise reaches the final departure airport. The form shall be filled out and signed at the place where aircraft clearance for the merchandise is given.
(b)
Clearance not at place of final departure.
If an aircraft is cleared at a place other than the place of final departure from the U.S., the aircraft commander or its authorized agent shall:
(1) Promptly report arrival of any bonded merchandise for export to the Customs officer in charge at that place; and
(2) Submit to the Customs officer in charge the certificate received at the place the merchandise was taken on board. The clearance certificate is kept by the Customs officer in charge until departure.
This procedure shall be followed at each place of landing before final departure.
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988; T.D. 00-22, 65 FR 15618, Mar. 29, 2000]
§ 122.95
Other provisions.
Part 18 of this chapter (Transportation in Bond and Merchandise in Transit) applies to the transportation of merchandise under this subpart unless stated otherwise.

# Subpart K—Accompanied Baggage in Transit
§ 122.101
Entry of accompanied baggage.
Passengers who enter the U.S. on one aircraft and depart to a foreign area on another aircraft with accompanying baggage shall either:
(a) Submit their baggage to Customs for inspection; or
(b) Arrange with the importing carrier for the baggage to be processed under regular in-transit procedures.
When passengers choose not to have access to their baggage while in the U.S., the baggage shall be listed on the Air Cargo Manifest as provided in § 122.48.
§ 122.102
Inspection of baggage in transit.
(a) General baggage in transit may be inspected upon arrival, while in transit, and upon exportation. Carriers shall present in-transit baggage for inspection at any time found necessary by the port director.
(b) In-transit baggage shall be presented to a Customs officer for inspection and clearance before the baggage can be delivered to a passenger while in the U.S.

# Subpart L—Transit Air Cargo Manifest (TACM) Procedures
§ 122.111
Application.
Cargo (including manifested baggage) which arrives and is transported under Customs control in, through, or from, the U.S. may be transported in bond under this subpart. If cargo is not transported under this subpart, it shall be transported under other provisions of this chapter. (See subparts I and J of this part, and parts 18 and 123 of this chapter.)
§ 122.112
Definitions.
The following definitions apply in this subpart:
(a)
Transit air cargo.
“Transit air cargo” is cargo, including manifested baggage, transported under the requirements of this subpart.
(b)
Port of arrival.
The “port of arrival” is the port in the U.S. where imported cargo must be documented for further transportation under this subpart.
(c)
Transfer or transferred.
“Transfer or transferred” means the change of documentation of cargo to transit air cargo for transportation. The terms also include the physical movement of the cargo from one carrier to another, and thereafter by air or surface movement to the port of destination.
(d)
Transit air cargo manifest.
“Transit air cargo manifest” is used in this subpart as the shortened title for the transportation entry and transit air cargo manifest.
§ 122.113
Form for transit air cargo manifest procedures.
A manifest on Customs Form 7509 is required for transit air cargo, as provided in § 122.48(c) of this part. The words “Transportation Entry and Transit Air Cargo Manifest” shall be printed, stamped or marked on the
form and on all copies of the form required for transit air cargo movement.
§ 122.114
Contents.
(a)
Form duplicates original manifest.
Each transit air cargo manifest shall be a duplicate of the sheet presented as part of the cargo manifest for the aircraft on which the cargo arrived in the U.S.
(b)
Shipments shown on manifest
—(1)
Country of exportation.
Each transit air cargo manifest sheet may list:
(i) Only air cargo shipments from one exporting country, with the name of the country shown in the heading; or
(ii) Air cargo shipments from several exporting countries, with the name of the exporting country shown in the “Nature of Goods” column.
(2)
Shipment to same port.
Each transit air manifest sheet may list only those shipments manifested by way of the port of arrival for:
(i) The same Customs port of destination;
(ii) The same Customs port for later exportation; or
(iii) Direct exportation from the port of arrival.
(c)
Information required.
Each air cargo manifest sheet shall show:
(1) The foreign port of lading;
(2) The date the aircraft arrived at the port of arrival;
(3) Each U.S. port where Customs services will be necessary due to transit air cargo procedures; and
(4) The final port of destination in the U.S., or the foreign country of destination, for each shipment. The foreign country destination shown on the manifest must be the final destination, as shown by airline shipping documents, even though airline transport may be scheduled to end before the shipment arrives at the final destination.
(d)
Corrections.
If corrections in the route shown on the original manifest for the cargo are required at the port of arrival to make a manifest sheet workable as a transit air cargo manifest, the director of the port of arrival may allow the corrections.
§ 122.115
Labeling of cargo.
A warning label, as required by § 18.4(e) of this chapter, shall be attached to all transit air cargo not directly exported from the port of arrival before the cargo leaves the port of arrival.
§ 122.116
Identification of manifest sheets.
When the original cargo manifest for the aircraft on which the cargo arrives is presented by the aircraft commander or its authorized agent at the port of arrival, a manifest number will be given to the aircraft entry documents by Customs. The number given shall be used by the airline to identify all copies of the transit air cargo manifest. All copies of the manifest shall be correctly numbered before cargo will be released from the port of arrival as transit air cargo.
§ 122.117
Requirements for transit air cargo transport.
(a)
Transportation
—(1)
Port to port.
Transit air cargo may be carried to another port only when a receipt is given, as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. The receipt may be given only to an airline which:
(i) Is a common carrier for the transportation of bonded merchandise; and
(ii) Has the required Customs bond on file.
(2)
Exportation from port of arrival.
Transit air cargo may be exported from the port of arrival only if covered by a bond on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in subpart G of part 113 of this chapter, as provided in § 18.25 of this chapter.
(b)
Receipt
—(1)
Requirements.
When air cargo is to move from the port of arrival as transit air cargo, a receipt shall be given. The receipt shall be made by the airline responsible for transport or export within the general order period (see § 122.50).
(2)
Contents.
The receipt shall appear on each copy of the transit air cargo manifest, clearly signed and dated if required, in the following form:
Received the cargo listed herein for delivery to Customs at the port of destination or exportation shown above, or for direct exportation.
Name of carrier (or exporter)
Attorney or agent of carrier (or exporter)
Date
(c)
Responsibility for transit air cargo
—(1)
Direct exportation.
The responsibility of the airline exporting transit air cargo for direct exportation begins when a receipt, as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, is presented to Customs.
(2)
Other than direct exportation.
When the transit air cargo is not for direct exportation, the responsibility of the airline receiving the cargo begins when a receipt, as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, is presented to Customs.
(3)
Carting.
When carting is used to deliver transit air cargo to receiving airlines, the importing airline is responsible for the cargo under its own bond until a receipt is filed by the receiving airline. This does not apply when the carting is done under part 112 of this chapter, at the expense of the parties involved.
(4)
Importing airlines.
An importing airline which has qualified as a carrier of bonded merchandise, whether registered in the U.S. or a foreign area, may:
(i) Give a receipt for the air cargo;
(ii) File an appropriate bond; and
(iii) Deliver the cargo to an authorized domestic carrier for in-bond transportation from the port of arrival. The importing carrier's bond covers the transportation.
(d)
Split shipments.
A receipt shall be given by one airline for all of the cargo shipments listed on one transit air cargo manifest sheet. Cargo shipments so listed shall be transported from the port of arrival on one aircraft or carrier unless the use of more than one aircraft or carrier would be allowed:
(1) By § 122.92(d) under a single combined entry and manifest;
(2) By § 122.118(d); or
(3) By § 122.119(e), permitting the use of a surface carrier for transport.
Otherwise, all shipments on the transit air cargo manifest shall be separately documented and transported under the regular procedures for transportation of merchandise in bond (See subpart J).
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by T.D. 98-74, 63 FR 51289, Sept. 25, 1998]
§ 122.118
Exportation from port of arrival.
(a)
Application.
Transit air cargo may be transferred for exportation from any port of arrival under this section. The port director may require any supervision necessary to enforce the regulations of other Federal agencies.
(b)
Time.
Transit air cargo must be exported from the port of arrival within 15 days from the date the exporting airline receives the cargo. After the 15-day period, the individual cargo shipments must be made the subject of individual entries, as appropriate.
(c)
Transit air cargo manifest copies.
Three copies of the transit air cargo manifest shall be filed with Customs.
(1)
Review copy.
The importing airline shall file a copy of each transit air cargo manifest sheet covering any cargo shipment that will be transferred for direct exportation. This filing shall be made as soon as the exporting airline has been chosen. The exporting airline need not give receipt on the review copy for the cargo to be transferred, but the name of the exporting airline shall be placed on the copy.
(2)
Exportation copy.
The exportation copy shall be filed by the exporting airline when clearance documents are presented to Customs.
(3)
Clearance copy.
The clearance copy shall be filed with the exporting aircraft's clearance documents.
The exportation and clearance copies shall show the exporting airline's receipt for the cargo, aircraft number, flight number, and the date.
(d)
Direct export on different aircraft.
Transit air cargo shipments which are listed on one aircraft transit air cargo manifest sheet may be directly exported on different aircraft of the exporting airline. If this occurs, two additional copies of the transit air cargo manifest shall be filed for each shipment or group of shipments transported in other aircraft. Each copy of the transit air cargo manifest shall be clearly marked to show which shipment or shipments listed are covered by the manifest copy.
(e)
Direct export by another airline.
If shipments listed on one transit air cargo manifest sheet are not exported
from the same port on the same airline, separate export entries on Customs Form 7512, as required by § 18.25 of this chapter, shall be filed.
(f)
Post entered air cargo.
Air cargo not listed on the manifest (i.e., overages) which has been post entered under § 122.49(b) may be exported from the port of origin under this subpart. If this occurs, four copies of the air cargo manifest, Customs Form 7509, marked “Post Entry”, shall be provided. All requirements of § 122.44(b) shall be followed in using this procedure.
(g)
Review.
The review copy of the transit air cargo manifest sheets must be reviewed by Customs as required for the carrier manifest copy in § 122.120(g). The reviewing officer shall take the proper action if a license is necessary for any cargo. The exporting airline shall be notified that any transit air cargo which is not covered by the required license must be placed under constructive Customs custody in a special area of the airline's terminal until the license is obtained.
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by CBP Dec. 17-13, 82 FR 45405, Sept. 28, 2017]
§ 122.119
Transportation to another U.S. port.
(a)
Application.
Air cargo shipments may be transferred for transportation as transit air cargo from the port of arrival to another port in the U.S. under this section. The director of the port of arrival may require Customs supervision of the transfer.
(b)
Time.
Transit air cargo traveling to a final port of destination in the U.S. shall be delivered to Customs at its destination within 30 days from the date the receiving airline gives the receipt for the cargo at the port of arrival.
(c)
Transit air cargo manifest copies.
Four copies of the transit air cargo manifest, including a carrier manifest copy, shall be filed by the airline giving a receipt for moving the cargo shipments to their destination. The permit copy is used and kept by Customs at the port of arrival.
(d)
Failure to deliver on time
—(1)
Procedure.
If transit air cargo does not arrive at the destination port on time, the director of the port of arrival shall take action as provided in §§ 18.6 and 18.8 of this chapter. The amount of duty and tax shall be decided at the port of arrival on the basis of information:
(i) On the permit copy kept at the port of arrival; and
(ii) Obtained from the carriers as necessary.
The director of the port of arrival shall notify the airline that presented a receipt for the cargo that there has been a failure to deliver.
(2)
Responsibility of airline.
When the airline that presented a receipt for the cargo receives notice of discrepancies, the airline shall answer within 90 days of the date of such notice to the director of the port of arrival. The answer shall provide any information or documents related to the value and description of the cargo involved that the receipting airline and the importing airline can produce.
(e)
Surface movement to port of destination.
If an aircraft arrives at the port of arrival with cargo to be carried as transit air cargo, the cargo may be transferred to another carrier for surface movement to the port of destination. The transfer is allowed under the following conditions:
(1) The bond of the party receiving the cargo for surface movement must cover the transfer and surface movement;
(2) The description of the cargo on the transit air cargo manifest must be complete;
(3) The entire shipment listed in the transit air cargo manifest must be shipped from the port of arrival to the port of destination by the same surface carrier; and
(4) The requirements of § 122.114(b) must be followed.
[T.D. 88-12, 54 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988; T.D. 00-22, 65 FR 16518, Mar. 29, 2000, as amended by CBP Dec. 17-13, 82 FR 45405, Sept. 28, 2017]
§ 122.120
Transportation to another port for exportation.
(a)
Application.
Air cargo may be transferred as transit air cargo at the port of arrival for transportation to another port in the U.S. and later exportation under this section.
(b)
Supervision
—(1)
From port of arrival to exportation port.
The director of the
port of arrival shall order any supervision found necessary for the transfer of transit air cargo for transportation to another port for export.
(2)
At exportation port.
Customs shall be notified far enough in advance to be able to make any required supervision of the lading of cargo, and to enforce any other Federal agency requirements, when transit air cargo is ready for lading on the exporting aircraft.
(c)
Time.
Transit air cargo covered by this section shall be delivered to CBP at the port of exportation within 30 days from the date of receipt by the forwarding airline.
(d)
Transit air cargo manifest copies.
Five copies of the transit air cargo manifest shall be filed with Customs.
(1)
Port of arrival.
Two copies of the transit air cargo manifest, marked separately as “permit” and “control” copies, shall be filed with Customs at the port of arrival. Filing shall be made when the arriving aircraft enters, or before the general order period ends, by the airline which presents a receipt to transport the cargo from the port of arrival to the port of destination.
(2)
Port of exportation.
Three copies of the transit air cargo manifest shall be filed at the port of exportation.
(i)
Carrier manifest copy.
The carrier manifest copy shall be attached to the listing of cargo shipments and submitted when the cargo arrives at the exportation port.
(ii)
Exportation and clearance copies.
Two copies, marked separately as “exportation” and “clearance” copies, shall be filed with Customs at the exportation port.
(e)
Delivery to exporting airline.
When the transit air cargo arrives at the exportation port, it may be delivered directly to the exporting carrier, together with the exportation and clearance copies. The name of the exporting carrier shall be clearly noted on the carrier manifest copy, which shall then be delivered to Customs.
(f)
Storage by exporting airline.
The exporting carrier shall keep all cargo listed on the transit air cargo manifest in one storage space. This storage space shall be separate from the area in which special shipments which require a license under paragraph (g) of this section are stored.
(g)
Export license
—(1)
Review.
A Customs officer shall review the carrier manifest copy of the transit air cargo manifest to make sure that the export licensing requirements of other Federal agencies have been followed.
(2)
Information inadequate.
If the manifest information is not enough for Customs to determine that a license or other requirement applies, then the transit air cargo shall be checked by examination, or by inspection of the air waybills or attached invoices.
(3)
When license or other requirement applies.
The exporting airline shall be notified at once if Customs finds that the shipment cannot be exported without a license or other approval. The shipment shall then be put under constructive Customs custody in a special area set aside for the shipment in the exporting airline's cargo terminal.
(h)
Filing of exportation and clearance copies
—(1)
Information.
When filed with Customs, the exportation and clearance copies of the transit air cargo manifest shall each show:
(i) The aircraft number;
(ii) The aircraft flight number; and
(iii) The date.
(2)
Filing.
The exporting airline shall file the exportation and clearance copies before the aircraft that carries the transit air cargo departs. The clearance copies shall be grouped together and not mixed in with other outward manifest sheets. The exportation copies shall be grouped together, and kept separate from the outward clearance documents.
(i)
Cargo not laden at same airport by same airline.
If all the cargo listed on one transit air cargo manifest sheet is not laden for exportation from the same U.S. airport by the same airline, then separate entries on Customs Form 7512 are required for each cargo shipment listed:
(1) For transportation and exportation under subpart J of this part; or
(2) For direct exportation under § 18.25 of this chapter.
(j)
Cargo laden on more than one aircraft of same airline.
When any cargo shipment listed on the same transit air cargo manifest must be exported on more than one aircraft of the same airline, § 122.118(d) applies.
(k)
Failure to deliver.
If all or part of the cargo listed on the transit air cargo manifest is not accounted for with an exportation copy within 45 days, the director of the port of arrival shall take action as provided in § 122.119(d).
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 25, 1988, as amended by T.D. 98-74, 63 FR 51289, Sept. 25, 1998; T.D. 00-22, 65 FR 16518, Mar. 29, 2000; CBP Dec. 17-13, 82 FR 45405, Sept. 28, 2017]

# Subpart M—Aircraft Liquor Kits
§ 122.131
Application.
(a)
Liquor and tobacco.
Subpart M applies to:
(1) Duty-free and tax-free liquor and tobacco; and
(2) Duty-paid and tax-paid liquor and tobacco which has been placed in the same liquor kit as duty-free and tax-free liquor and tobacco.
(b)
Aircraft.
Subpart M applies to all commercial aircraft on domestic or foreign flights operating into, from and between U.S. airports, which are carrying:
(1) Duty-free and tax-free liquor and tobacco withdrawn from bond under section 309, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1309); or
(2) Other liquor or tobacco on which duty or taxes have not been paid.
This includes any aircraft carrying duty-free and tax-free liquor under 19 U.S.C. 1309, or other Federal law, although the aircraft is not required to enter, clear or report arrival.
§ 122.132
Sealing of aircraft liquor kits.
(a)
Sealing required.
Aircraft liquor kits shall be sealed on board the aircraft by crewmembers before the aircraft lands in the U.S. The liquor kits shall be kept under seal while on the ground unless taken to an authorized airline in-bond liquor storeroom.
(b)
Exception.
When an aircraft is traveling between airports in the U.S., in a trade for which duty-free and tax-free liquor is used during flight, sealing the liquor kits on board during transporting stopovers is not required if:
(1) The liquor kits are kept on board the aircraft; and
(2) The port director finds that sealing is not required for revenue protection.
(c)
Seals to be used.
Aircraft liquor kits shall be sealed with serially numbered, Customs approved seals. The airline shall use seals supplied by an approved manufacturer, as provided in part 24 of this chapter. A small number of seals may be obtained from the port director.
(d)
Removing seals.
When sealed liquor kits are on the ground, the Customs seals may be broken only by:
(1) A Customs officer; or
(2) Authorized airline personnel, in an authorized airline in-bond liquor storeroom.
(e)
Resealing.
When a Customs officer breaks the seal of a liquor kit to check the contents, the action shall be recorded on the liquor kit stores list, and the liquor kit must be resealed with an approved seal.
§ 122.133
Stores list required on arrival.
(a)
When required, contents.
Three copies of an incoming stores list shall be prepared for each liquor kit on board before an aircraft lands. The incoming stores list shall state for each type of liquor and bottle size:
(1) Number of full bottles;
(2) Number of partially filled bottles; and
(3) Total number of bottles.
If the carrier chooses not to state the type of liquor for each size bottle, any duty or taxes assessed for any shortage shall be set at the highest rate available for the alcoholic beverages in the kit.
(b)
Disposition of stores list copies.
One copy of the incoming stores list shall be placed in the liquor kit before it is sealed. The remaining two copies shall be used as follows:
(1) One copy shall be filed with the inward cargo manifest; and
(2) One copy shall be kept for filing with the outward cargo manifest if the liquor kit was laden for export.
(c)
For aircraft not required to enter and/or clear.
If an aircraft is not required to enter and/or clear:
(1) One copy shall be given to the Customs officer upon arrival; and
(2) One copy shall be kept to be given to the Customs officer before departure of the aircraft.
(d)
When stores list not prepared.
When a complete stores list is not prepared before landing, liquor kits must be sealed on board, and the seal number shall be recorded on the stores list. When the aircraft lands, the liquor shall be taken at once to the Customs office and the stores list shall be completed by crew members under Customs supervision.
§ 122.134
When airline does not have in-bond liquor storeroom.
(a)
Handling of liquor kits.
An aircraft may land at an airport where the airline involved does not have an authorized in-bond liquor storeroom. When this occurs, the liquor kits, under any supervision found necessary by the port director, may be:
(1) Kept on board the aircraft;
(2) Removed and replaced upon the aircraft; or
(3) Removed and replaced aboard another aircraft.
(b)
Sealing of kits.
Aircraft liquor kits covered by this section shall remain sealed until departure. Customs officers may remove the seal to check the contents of the liquor kits, but shall reseal the kits as provided in § 122.132(e).
(c)
Restocking.
Additional amounts of duty-free and tax-free liquor and tobacco obtained in the U.S. shall be laden in a separate container on any aircraft covered by this section. The lading shall be done under any supervision the port director finds necessary. The additional liquor and tobacco shall be shown on separate outward stores lists.
§ 122.135
When airline has in-bond liquor storeroom.
(a)
Restocking.
Liquor kits on board an aircraft landing at an airport where the airline involved has an authorized in-bond liquor storeroom may be removed and restocked in the storeroom.
(b)
Inventory record.
Each authorized airline in-bond liquor storeroom shall keep an inventory record in a form that satisfies the port director. The inventory record shall account for the receipt and use of all aircraft liquor and tobacco stores on which duty and/or tax has not been paid.
(c)
Airline employees.
Any airline which has an authorized in-bond liquor store room at an airport shall give the port director:
(1) A list of names of all airline employees authorized to break Customs seals on liquor kits in the in-bond liquor storeroom; and
(2) Signature samples of the authorized employees.
(d)
Opening of aircraft liquor kits.
Aircraft liquor kits received in an authorized storeroom shall be opened only by authorized airline employees, or by Customs officers.
(e)
Contents of liquor kits.
The employees who break the seals on aircraft liquor kits shall check the contents at once. The employees shall immediately report to the port director any:
(1) Evidence of seal tampering;
(2) Difference between the seal numbers on the liquor kits and those recorded on the stores list; and
(3) Differences in quantity as shown on the stores list.
(f)
Handling the liquor kits
—(1)
Partial bottles.
Partial bottles of liquor may be removed from incoming liquor kits and kept in the in-bond liquor storeroom to be destroyed or combined with other partial bottles. This may be done only under Customs supervision. The costs of Customs supervision shall be paid by the airline.
(2)
Exportation.
The contents of incoming liquor kits may be commingled to restock outbound liquor kits. The commingling must take place in the airline in-bond liquor storeroom, using liquor bottles on which the seal has not been broken.
(3)
Sealing.
All liquor kits shall be sealed as provided in § 122.132(a) before removal from the in-bond liquor storeroom. All seal numbers shall be listed on an outgoing stores list.
§ 122.136
Outgoing stores list.
(a)
Preparation.
Two copies of a serially numbered outgoing stores list shall be prepared by the airline for all liquor and tobacco withdrawn from bonded or non-tax-paid stock and added to liquor kits. The outgoing stores list shall show the total number of bottles
for each type liquor, the brand, and the size of each bottle.
(b)
Use of copies.
The two copies of the outgoing stores list shall be used as follows:
(1) One copy shall be placed and kept in the outgoing kits until the aircraft leaves the U.S.; and
(2) One copy must be filed either with the outgoing cargo manifest (for aircraft required to clear) or with Customs before departing, as provided in § 122.133(c).
In both cases, the third copy of the inward stores list shall be filed with the outgoing stores list. (See § 122.133(c)).
§ 122.137
Certificate of use.
Any liquor or tobacco withdrawn from the in-bond storeroom and shown on the outgoing stores list shall be recorded, when exported, on a certificate of use prepared by the airline.

# Subpart N—Flights to and From the U.S. Virgin Islands
§ 122.141
Definitions.
Under subpart N, the following definitions apply:
(a)
United States.
The term “U.S.” includes the several States, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.
(b)
Foreign area.
The term “foreign area” means any area other than the several States, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.
§ 122.142
Flights between the U.S. Virgin Islands and a foreign area.
(a)
Aircraft arriving in the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Aircraft arriving in the U.S. Virgin Islands from a place other than the U.S. are governed by the provisions of this part which apply to aircraft arriving in the U.S. from a foreign area.
(b)
Aircraft leaving the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Aircraft leaving the U.S. Virgin Islands for a place other than the U.S. are governed by the provisions of this part that apply to aircraft leaving the U.S. for a foreign area.
§ 122.143
Flights from the U.S. to the U.S. Virgin Islands.
(a)
In general.
Aircraft on flights from the U.S. to the U.S. Virgin Islands are governed by the provisions of this part that apply to aircraft on a flight within the U.S.
(b)
Census Bureau.
When Census Bureau's Foreign Trade Regulations (15 CFR part 30) apply to aircraft carrying merchandise to the U.S. Virgin Islands from the U.S., permission to depart must be obtained from the port director. Permission to depart will not be given unless:
(1) A complete manifest and Electronic Export Information (EEI) as required by 15 CFR part 30 are filed; or
(2) An incomplete manifest under 15 CFR 30.47 is filed and the complete manifest and EEI is filed within 7 business days after departure.
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by CBP Dec. 17-06, 82 FR 32239, July 13, 2017]
§ 122.144
Flights from the U.S. Virgin Islands to the U.S.
(a)
Aircraft not inspected.
This paragraph applies to aircraft departing from the U.S. Virgin Islands and arriving in the U.S., without having been inspected prior to departure.
(1)
On departure.
Aircraft leaving the U.S. Virgin Islands for the U.S. are governed by the provisions of this part that apply to aircraft leaving the U.S. for a foreign area.
(2)
On arrival.
Aircraft departing from the U.S. Virgin Islands and arriving in the U.S. are governed by the provisions of this part that apply to aircraft arriving in the U.S. from a foreign area.
(b)
Supervision.
When aircraft are inspected by Customs in the U.S. Virgin Islands, the port director may order any supervision found necessary to protect the revenue and enforce the laws administered by Customs. This includes the collection of duty and taxes on articles bought in the U.S. Virgin Islands.
(c)
Procedure.
When an aircraft that was inspected in the U.S. Virgin Islands arrives in the U.S. from the U.S. Virgin Islands, the aircraft commander must be able to give evidence of the inspection to Customs on request. Evidence of the inspection shall be given in the following manner:
(1) A certificate on Customs Form 7507 shall be presented for aircraft registered in the U.S.:
(i) Of domestic origin; or
(ii) Of foreign origin, if duty has been paid and the aircraft is proceeding carrying neither passengers nor cargo, or with cargo and/or passengers solely from the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Two copies of the certificate shall be given to the inspecting Customs officers in the U.S. Virgin Islands by the aircraft commander. The certificate shall be marked with the port and date of inspection, and must be signed by the inspecting officer. The original of the certificate must be returned to the aircraft commander, who must keep the certificate for a reasonable time after the end of the flight to the U.S. If requested, the certificate shall be presented to Customs. The certificate may be destroyed or disposed of after a reasonable time at the discretion of the aircraft commander or agent.
(2) A permit to proceed on Customs Form 7507 shall be presented for aircraft registered in the U.S. which are:
(i) Of foreign origin;
(ii) Not duty paid; and
(iii) Proceeding carrying neither passengers nor cargo.
The permit to proceed, as required by subpart F of this part, shall be marked with the port and date of inspection, and shall be signed by the inspecting officer in the U.S. Virgin Islands.
(3) A permit to proceed on Customs Form 7507 shall be presented for aircraft registered in a foreign country and proceeding carrying neither passengers nor cargo. The permit to proceed, as required under subpart F of this part, shall be marked with the port and date of inspection, and shall be signed by the inspecting officer in the U.S. Virgin Islands.
(4) A permit to proceed, or other document, shall be filed as required under subpart I of this part for an aircraft carrying residue cargo and/or passengers. The permit to proceed shall be marked with the port and date of inspection, and it must be signed by the inspecting officer in the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Subpart O [Reserved]
Subpart P—Public Aircraft [Reserved]

# Subpart Q—Penalties
§ 122.161
In general.
Except as provided in subpart S of this part, any person who violates any Customs requirements stated in this part, or any regulation that applies to aircraft under § 122.2, is, in addition to any other applicable penalty, subject to civil penalty of $5,000 as provided by 19 U.S.C. 1644 and 1644a, except for overages, and failure to manifest narcotics or marihuana, in which cases the penalties set forth in section 584, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1584) apply, or for failure to report arrival or to present the documents required by § 122.27(c) of this part in which cases the penalties set forth in section 436, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1436) apply, and any aircraft used in connection with any such violation shall be subject to seizure and forfeiture, as provided for in the Customs laws. A penalty or forfeiture may be mitigated under part 171 of this chapter.
[T.D. 91-61, 56 FR 32086, July 15, 1991, as amended by T.D. 98-74, 63 FR 51289, Sept. 25, 1998]
§ 122.162
Failure to notify and explain differences in air cargo manifest.
(a)
Application.
Penalties shall be assessed if differences in an air cargo manifest (overages or shortages) are discovered and:
(1) The required notice and explanation are not made in time;
(2) The port director is not satisfied that the differences were caused by clerical error or other mistake;
(3) There has been a loss of revenue to the U.S.; or
(4) The port director is not satisfied that there was a valid reason for delay in reporting any differences.
(b)
Definition.
Under this section, “clerical error or other mistake” means a non-negligent, inadvertant, or typographical mistake in the preparation, assembly, or submission (electronically or otherwise) of the manifest.
(c)
Repeated differences.
If repeated differences are found in manifests filed
by the same person, it may be determined that the differences were a result of negligence and not clerical error or other mistake.
(d)
Knowledge.
A penalty may be assessed for differences in a manifest that are unknown to the aircraft commander or owner.
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by T.D. 99-64, 64 FR 43266, Aug. 10, 1999]
§ 122.163
Transit air cargo traveling to U.S. ports.
(a)
Application.
If transit air cargo is traveling from the port of arrival to another U.S. port under § 122.119, a liability shall be assessed, as set out in § 18.8 of this chapter if there has been:
(1) Shortage in delivery;
(2) Irregular delivery; or
(3) Non-delivery.
(b)
Liabilities assessed.
The liabilities assessed under this section are imposed as liquidated damages under a carrier's bond.
(c)
Value of merchandise.
The port director shall determine the value of merchandise for assessment purposes based on the following factors:
(1) Any data or documents available to the airline which presented a receipt for the transit air cargo, and available to the importing airline relating to the description and value of the cargo; and
(2) Other information available to the port director relating to the same or similar merchandise. If the data or documents required by this section are not submitted within 90 days of the date requested, the port director shall determine value on the basis of other available information. The transit air cargo manifest does not reflect value.
§ 122.164
Transportation to another port for exportation.
If transit air cargo is traveling from the port of arrival to another U.S. port for later exportation, any liquidated damages for shortages or irregular delivery shall be assessed as provided in § 122.163.
§ 122.165
Air cabotage.
(a) The air cabotage law (49 U.S.C. 41703) prohibits the transportation of persons, property, or mail for compensation or hire between points of the U.S. in a foreign civil aircraft. The term “foreign civil aircraft” includes all aircraft that are not of U.S. registration except those foreign-registered aircraft leased or chartered to a U.S. air carrier and operated under the authority of regulations issued by the Department of Transportation, as provided for in 14 CFR 121.153, and those aircraft used exclusively in the service of any government.
(b) Customs officers detecting possible violations shall report the matter to Headquarters, Attention: Entry Procedures and Carriers Branch. Liability should not be assessed under 49 U.S.C. Chapter 463 pending instructions from Headquarters since certain limited domestic transportation by foreign civil aircraft is permitted under regulations issued by the Department of Transportation.
[T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by T.D. 98-74, 63 FR 51289, Sept. 25, 1998; T.D. 99-27, 64 FR 13675, Mar. 22, 1999]
§ 122.166
Arrival, departure, discharge, and documentation.
(a)
Liability for civil penalties.
Except as otherwise provided, any aircraft pilot violation of the requirements of section 433, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, (19 U.S.C. 1433), with respect to the following actions shall be liable for civil penalties as provided by section 436, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1436), and described in paragraph (c) of this section:
(1) Advance notification of arrival;
(2) Report of arrival;
(3) Landing of aircraft;
(4) Presentation of documentation;
(5) Departure from the port, place, or airport of arrival without authorization; or
(6) Discharge of passenger, or merchandise (to include baggage) without authorization.
(b)
Liability for criminal penalties.
Upon conviction, any aircraft pilot violating any of the Customs requirements described in paragraph (a) of this section shall, in addition to civil penalties be subject to criminal penalties as set forth in section 436, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, (19 U.S.C. 1436), and described in paragraph (c) of this section. If the aircraft has or is discovered to have had on board any
merchandise (other than the equivalent, for a vessel, of sea stores) the importation of which into the U.S. is prohibited, that person shall be subject to an additional fine as set forth in 19 U.S.C. 1436 and described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Civil and criminal penalties described
—(1)
Civil penalty.
The pilot of any aircraft who fails to comply with the requirements of this section is liable for a civil penalty of $5,000 for the first violation, and $10,000 for each subsequent violation. Any aircraft used in connection with any such violation is subject to seizure and forfeiture.
(2)
Criminal penalty.
In addition to the civil penalty prescribed for violation of this section, the pilot of any aircraft who intentionally fails to comply with the requirements of this section is liable, upon conviction, for a fine of not more than $2,000 or imprisonment for 1 year, or both. If the aircraft is found to have, or to have had, on board any merchandise the importation of which is prohibited, such individual is liable for an additional fine of not more than $10,000 or imprisonment for not more than 5 years, or both.
(3)
Additional civil penalty.
If any merchandise, other than the equivalent of vessel sea stores, is imported or brought into the U.S. aboard an aircraft which has failed to comply with the requirements prescribed by this section, the pilot of the aircraft shall be liable for a civil penalty equal to the value of the merchandise, and the merchandise may be seized and forfeited, unless properly entered by the importer or consignee.
§ 122.167
Aviation smuggling.
(a)
Civil penalties.
Any aircraft pilot who transports, or any person on board any aircraft who possesses prohibited or restricted merchandise knowing, or intending, that the merchandise will be introduced into the U.S. contrary to law shall be subject to a civil penalty of twice the value of the merchandise involved, but not less than $10,000, as prescribed in section 590, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1590). Any aircraft used in connection with, or in aiding or facilitating, any violation of 19 U.S.C. 1590, whether or not any person is charged in connection with such violation, may be seized and forfeited in accordance with Customs laws.
(b)
Criminal penalties.
Any aircraft pilot or person who intentionally violates 19 U.S.C. 1590 is, upon conviction, subject to the criminal penalties of a fine of not more than $10,000 or imprisonment for not more than 5 years, or both, if none of the merchandise involved is a controlled substance. More severe penalties are provided in 19 U.S.C. 1590 if the smuggled merchandise is a controlled substance. In such case, a violator is liable for a fine of not more than $250,000 or imprisonment for not more than 20 years, or both.
(c) For purposes of imposing civil penalties under this section, any of the following acts, when performed within 250 miles of the territorial sea of the United States, shall be evidence that the transportation or possession of merchandise was unlawful and shall indicate that the purpose of the transfer was to make it possible for such merchandise, or any part of it, to be introduced into the U.S. unlawfully. For purposes of seizure and forfeiture, the following acts shall be evidence that an aircraft was used in connection with, or to aid or facilitate, a violation of this section;
(1) The operation of an aircraft without lights during such times as lights are required to be displayed under applicable law.
(2) The presence on an aircraft of an auxiliary fuel tank which is not installed in accordance with applicable law.
(3) The failure to correctly identify the aircraft by registration number and country of registration, when requested to do so by a customs officer or other government authority.
(4) The external display of false registration numbers or false country of registration.
(5) The presence on board of unmanifested merchandise, the importation of which is prohibited or restricted.
(6) The presence on board of controlled substances which are not manifested or which are not accompanied by the permits or licenses required under Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs or other international treaty.
(7) The presence of any compartment or equipment which is built or fitted out for smuggling.

# Subpart R—Air Carrier Smuggling Prevention Program

# Source:
T.D. 91-25, 56 FR 12347, Mar. 25, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 122.171
Description of program.
The Air Carrier Smuggling Prevention Program (ACSPP) is designed to enlist the cooperation of the air carriers, as defined in 19 U.S.C. 1584 note, in Customs efforts to prevent the smuggling of controlled substances. If carriers develop and implement thorough and complete internal security procedures at ACSPP designated terminals and foreign departure and intermediate points, the opportunity for their conveyances being used for transportation of controlled substances will be greatly reduced. Participation in the program is voluntary, and may be limited to specific routes. Should a controlled substance be introduced into the United States on a conveyance owned or operated by a participating carrier however, the carrier will be exempt from seizure and penalties should it satisfy the provisions of § 122.175 of this part. The program will be operational for a period of 2 years from December 18, 1989, pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 1584 note.
§ 122.172
Eligibility.
Any air carrier whose international flights arrive at, or depart from, any of the designated test airports, Miami International Airport, Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport, or Los Angeles International Airport, is eligible for participation in the ACSPP.
§ 122.173
Application procedures.
(a)
Application.
An air carrier which wishes to participate in the ACSPP shall submit an application to the Assistant Commissioner, Office of Field Operations, in which it:
(1) Identifies specific routes and designated departure points and ACSPP airports for which application is made;
(2) Certifies that it has developed and will continue to maintain standard operating procedures (SOP) which are designed to safeguard the integrity of its employees, cargo and conveyances. The application shall be accompanied by three (3) copies of the SOP developed by the air carrier.
(b)
Approval criteria.
Upon receipt, each application will be reviewed to determine whether the procedures contained therein meet the requirements of the ACSPP. In determining whether a SOP submitted by an applicant carrier contains sufficient detail to assure the proper level of care and diligence required under the provisions of the ACSPP, the Assistant Commissioner, Office of Field Operations, will apply uniform standards and verify that, at a minimum, procedures are in place which:
(1) Assure positive security background checks are performed on all carrier employees, both those employed within the United States and without, who have access to baggage, cargo or secure areas on participating routes, to the extent permitted by law;
(2) Assure a system of positive baggage and cargo identification is employed at all terminals used by the carrier;
(3) Assure the carrier employs a system to assure that no unmanifested cargo is placed on board the conveyance or brought into the United States on any of their conveyances;
(4) Assure the carrier has specific procedures through which it will notify Customs should it discover any unmanifested or improperly manifested cargo on any of its conveyances or in any area subject to its control;
(5) Assure the carrier has an effective and practical employee awareness training program in place; and
(6) Assure thorough security measures are implemented at all foreign departure points on ACSPP participating routes which will assure that the carrier has control and knowledge of the baggage, cargo, passenger and other materials placed on board its aircraft.
(c)
Acceptance and notification.
Upon verification by Customs that a carrier's SOP meets all the criteria outlined in § 122.173(b) of this part, the carrier will be notified that its application to the ACSPP has been accepted. Acceptance into the ACSPP is made with
the understanding and expectation that the carrier will continue to act with the highest degree of care and diligence required under law and that it will abide by and perform all elements of its approved SOP.
[T.D. 91-25, 56 FR 12347, Mar. 25, 1991, as amended by T.D. 91-77, 56 FR 46115, Sept. 10, 1991]
§ 122.174
Operational procedures.
(a)
Participating carriers.
Participating carriers are required to develop and adhere to procedures whereby they will:
(1) Provide security personnel for every international arrival participating in the ACSPP to conduct the following procedures:
(i) Perform a thorough internal and external search of the arriving aircraft;
(ii) Maintain total control of all passengers and cargo being discharged from the aircraft to either the Customs passenger hall or to the carrier's cargo facility;
(iii) Verify that all cargo on aircraft is properly manifested, marked and weighed and that piece counts are properly performed; and
(iv) Maintain physical security of the aircraft and ramp access to the aircraft while it is being offloaded.
(2) Provide security personnel at the foreign point of departure for every international departure which is participating in ACSPP to conduct the following procedures:
(i) Perform a thorough internal and external search of the departing aircraft;
(ii) Maintain total control of all passengers and cargo being loaded on the aircraft from either the passenger terminal or the carrier's cargo facility;
(iii) Verify that all cargo placed on the aircraft is properly manifested, marked and weighed and that piece counts are properly performed;
(iv) Maintain physical security of the aircraft and ramp access to the aircraft while it is being loaded; and
(v) Maintain similar positive security measures at all foreign intermediate airports prior to the arrival of the aircraft at an ACSPP designated airport.
(b)
U.S. Customs.
U.S. Customs will:
(1) Retain all current options available regarding the search and inspection of any and all passengers, cargo and conveyances; and
(2) Provide training to carrier personnel to assist the development of proper operational procedures.
§ 122.175
Exemption from penalties.
Should a controlled substance be introduced into the United States or discovered aboard an aircraft owned or operated by a participating carrier, or in cargo carried by a participating carrier, on a route identified by the carrier as one participating in the ACSPP and which has been approved by Customs, the participating air carrier shall be considered to have met the test of highest degree of care and diligence required under law, and shall not be subject to the penalty or seizure provisions of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, if the carrier establishes at an oral presentation before the port director or his designee, that the carrier was not grossly negligent nor engaged in willful misconduct, and that it had complied with all the provisions of these regulations.
§ 122.176
Removal from ACSPP.
(a)
Grounds for removal from ACSSPP.
The Assistant Commissioner, Office of Field Operations, may revoke or supend the privilege of operating as a member of the ACSPP if:
(1) Acceptance into the program was gained through fraud or the misstatement of a material fact;
(2) The carrier refuses or neglects to obey any proper order of a Customs officer or any Customs order, rule, or regulation relative to its cooperation within the program;
(3) An officer of the carrier or corporation which has been accepted into the program is convicted of a felony or misdemeanor involving theft, smuggling, or other theft-connected crime which was committed in his or her official capacity as an officer of the carrier, or is convicted of any Customs-related crime;
(4) The carrier fails to retain merchandise which has been designated for examination;
(5) The carrier does not provide secure facilities or properly safeguard merchandise within its area of control; or
(6) The carrier fails to observe any of the procedures which it had set forth in the SOP which served as the basis for the carrier's acceptance into the program; and
(7) The carrier has been notified in writing that it has been found in noncompliance with a provision of the program and has failed to correct such noncompliance after having been given a reasonable opportunity to correct such noncompliance.
(b)
Notice and appeal.
The Assistant Commissioner, Office of Field Operations, shall suspend or remove participants from the ACSPP by serving notice of the proposed action upon the carrier in writing. The notice shall be in the form of a statement specifically setting forth the grounds for suspension or removal and shall provide the carrier with notice that it may file a written notice of appeal from suspension or revocation within 10 days following receipt of the notice of revocation or suspension. The notice of appeal shall be filed in duplicate to the office of the Assistant Commissioner, Field Operations, and shall set forth response of the carrier to the statement of the Assistant Commissioner.
(c)
Notice of decision.
The Assistant Commissioner, Office of Field Operations, shall notify the participating carrier in writing of the decision concerning continued participation in the program.
(d)
Use of uniform criteria.
When making any determination regarding a carrier's participation or continuation in the ACSPP, the Assistant Commissioner, Office of Field Operations, shall employ a uniform standard of performance and evaluation.
[T.D. 91-25, 56 FR 12347, Mar. 25, 1991, as amended by T.D. 91-77, 56 FR 46115, Sept. 10, 1991; T.D. 99-27, 64 FR 13675, Mar. 22, 1999]

# Subpart S—Access to Customs Security Areas

# Source:
T.D. 90-82, 55 FR 42557, Oct. 22, 1990, unless otherwise noted.
§ 122.181
Definition of Customs security area.
For purposes of this section, the term “Customs security area” means the Federal inspection services area at any airport accommodating international air commerce designated for processing passengers, crew, their baggage and effects arriving from, or departing to, foreign countries, as well as the aircraft deplaning and ramp area and other restricted areas designated by the port director. These areas will be posted as restricted to the extent possible and are established for the purpose of prohibiting unauthorized entries or contact with persons or objects.
[T.D. 90-82, 55 FR 42557, Oct. 22, 1990, as amended by T.D. 02-40, 67 FR 48984, July 29, 2002]
§ 122.182
Security provisions.
(a)
Customs access seal required.
With the exception of all Federal and uniformed State and local law enforcement personnel and aircraft passengers and crew, all persons located at, operating out of, or employed by any airport accommodating international air commerce or its tenants or contractors, including air carriers, who have unescorted access to the Customs security area, must openly display or produce upon demand an approved access seal issued by Customs. The approved Customs access seal must be in the possession of the person in whose name it is issued whenever the person is in the Customs security area and must be used only in furtherance of that person's employment in accordance with the description of duties submitted by the employer under paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The Customs access seal remains the property of Customs, and any bearer must immediately surrender it as provided in paragraph (g) of this section or upon demand by any authorized Customs officer for any cause referred to in § 122.187(a). Unless surrendered pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section or § 122.187, each approved Customs access seal issued under paragraph (c)(1) of this section will remain valid for 2 years from January 1, 2002, in the case of a Customs access seal issued prior to that date and for 2 years from the date of issuance in all other cases. Retention of an approved Customs access
seal beyond the applicable 2-year period will be subject to the reapplication provisions of paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(b)
Employers responsibility.
Employers operating in Customs airport security areas shall advise all employees of the provisions of the Customs regulations relative to those areas, require employees to familiarize themselves with those provisions and insure employee compliance. The employer shall also advise the port director of any changes of employment pursuant to § 122.182(g).
(c)
Application requirements
—(1)
Initial application.
An application for an approved Customs access seal, as required by this section, must be filed by the applicant with the port director on Customs Form 3078 and must be supported by a written request and justification for issuance prepared by the applicant's employer that describes the duties that the applicant will perform while in the Customs security area. The application requirement applies to all employees required to display an approved Customs access seal by this section, regardless of the length of their employment. The application must be supported by the bond of the applicant's employer or principal on Customs Form 301 containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62, § 113.63, or § 113.64 of this chapter, relating to importers or brokers, custodians of bonded merchandise, or international carriers. If the applicant's employer is not the principal on a Customs bond on Customs Form 301 for one or more of the activities to which the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62, § 113.63, or § 113.64 relate, the application must be supported by an Airport Customs Security Area Bond, as set forth in appendix A of part 113 of this chapter. The latter bond may be waived, however, for State or local government-related agencies in the discretion of the port director. Waiver of this bond does not relieve the agency in question or its employees from compliance with all other provisions of this subpart. In addition, in connection with an application for an approved Customs access seal under this section:
(i) The port director may require the applicant to submit fingerprints on form FD-258 or on any other approved medium either at the time of, or following, the filing of the application. If required, the port director will inform the applicant of the current Federal Bureau of Investigation user fee for conducting fingerprint checks and the Customs administrative processing fee, the total of which must be tendered by, or on behalf of, the applicant with the application; and
(ii) Proof of citizenship or authorized residency and a photograph may also be required.
(2)
Reapplication.
If a person wishes to retain an approved Customs access seal for one or more additional 2-year periods beyond the 2-year period referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, that person must submit a new application no later than 30 calendar days prior to the start of each additional period. The new application must be filed in the manner specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section for an initial application, and the port director may also require the submission of fingerprints as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section. The new application will be subject to review on a de novo basis as if it were an initial application except that the written attestation referred to in paragraph (d) of this section will not be required if there has been no change in the employment of the applicant since the last attestation was submitted to Customs.
(d)
Background check.
An authorized official of the employer must attest in writing that a background check has been conducted on the applicant, to the extent allowable by law. The background check must include, at a minimum, references and employment history, to the extent necessary to verify representations made by the applicant relating to employment in the preceding 5 years. The authorized official of the employer must attest that, to the best of his knowledge, the applicant meets the conditions necessary to perform functions associated with employment in the Customs security area. Additionally, the application may be investigated by Customs and a report prepared concerning the character of the applicant. Records of background investigations conducted by employers must be retained for a period of one
year following cessation of employment and made available upon request of the port director.
(e)
Law Enforcement officers and other governmental officials.
Law enforcement officers and other Federal, State, or local officials whose official duties require access to the Customs security area may request from the port director the issuance of an approved Customs access seal. They need not make application nor submit to background checks for security area access. An Airport Customs Security Area Bond is not required.
(f)
Replacement access seal.
A new Custom access seal may be obtained from the port director in the following circumstances, without the completion of an additional application, except as determined by the port director in his discretion:
(1) A change in employee name or address;
(2) A change in the name or ownership of the employing company;
(3) A change in employer or airport authority identification card format; or
(4) Loss or theft of the Customs access seal (see § 122.185 of this part).
(g)
Surrender of access seal.
Where the employee no longer requires access to the Customs security area for an extended period of time at the airport of issuance due to a change in duties, termination of employment, or other reason, or where the 2-year period referred to in paragraph (a) of this section expires and a new application under paragraph (c)(2) of this section has not been approved, the employer shall notify the port director in writing, at the time of such change, and shall return the Customs access seal to Customs. The notification shall include information regarding the disposition of the approved Customs access seal of the employee.
[T.D. 90-82, 55 FR 42557, Oct. 22, 1990, as amended by T.D. 93-18, 58 FR 15773, Mar. 24, 1993; T.D. 02-40, 67 FR 48984, July 29, 2002; 67 FR 51928, Aug. 9, 2002]
§ 122.183
Denial of access.
(a)
Grounds for denial.
Access to the Customs security area will not be granted, and therefore an approved Customs access seal will not be issued, to any person whose access to the Customs security area will, in the judgment of the port director, endanger the revenue or the security of the area or pose an unacceptable risk to public health, interest or safety, national security, or aviation safety. Specific grounds for denial of access to the Customs security area include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Any cause which would justify a demand for surrender of a Customs access seal or the revocation or suspension of access under § 122.182(g) or § 122.187;
(2) Evidence of a pending or past investigation establishing probable cause to believe that the applicant has engaged in any conduct which relates to, or which could lead to a conviction for, a disqualifying offense listed under paragraph (a)(4) of this section;
(3) The arrest of the applicant for, or the charging of the applicant with, a disqualifying offense listed under paragraph (a)(4) of this section on which prosecution or other disposition is pending;
(4) A disqualifying offense committed by the applicant. For purposes of this paragraph, an applicant commits a disqualifying offense if the applicant has been convicted of, or found not guilty of by reason of insanity, or has committed any act or omission involving, any of the following in any jurisdiction during the 5-year period, or any longer period that the port director deems appropriate for the offense in question, prior to the date of the application submitted under § 122.182 or at any time while in possession of an approved Customs access seal:
(i) Forgery of certificates, false marking of aircraft, and other aircraft registration violation (49 U.S.C. 46306);
(ii) Interference with air navigation (49 U.S.C. 46308);
(iii) Improper transportation of a hazardous material (49 U.S.C. 46312);
(iv) Aircraft piracy in the special aircraft jurisdiction of the United States (49 U.S.C. 46502(a));
(v) Interference with flight crew members or flight attendants (49 U.S.C. 46504);
(vi) Commission of certain crimes aboard aircraft in flight (49 U.S.C. 46506);
(vii) Carrying a weapon or explosive aboard aircraft (49 U.S.C. 46505);
(viii) Conveying false information and threats (49 U.S.C. 46507);
(ix) Aircraft piracy outside the special aircraft jurisdiction of the United States (49 U.S.C. 46502(b));
(x) Lighting violations involving transportation of controlled substances (49 U.S.C. 46315);
(xi) Unlawful entry into an aircraft or airport area that serves air carriers or foreign air carriers contrary to established security requirements (49 U.S.C. 46314);
(xii) Destruction of an aircraft or aircraft facility (18 U.S.C. 32);
(xiii) Murder;
(xiv) Assault with intent to murder;
(xv) Espionage;
(xvi) Sedition;
(xvii) Kidnapping or hostage taking;
(xviii) Treason;
(xix) Rape or aggravated sexual abuse;
(xx) Unlawful possession, use, sale, distribution, or manufacture of an explosive or weapon;
(xxi) Extortion;
(xxii) Armed or felony unarmed robbery;
(xxiii) Distribution of, or intent to distribute, a controlled substance;
(xxiv) Felony arson;
(xxv) Felony involving:
(A) A threat;
(B) Willful destruction of property;
(C) Importation or manufacture of a controlled substance;
(D) Burglary;
(E) Theft;
(F) Dishonesty, fraud, or misrepresentation;
(G) Possession or distribution of stolen property;
(H) Aggravated assault;
(I) Bribery; or
(J) Illegal possession of a controlled substance punishable by a maximum term of imprisonment of more than one year;
(xxvi) Violence at an airport serving international civil aviation (18 U.S.C. 37);
(xxvii) Embezzlement;
(xxviii) Perjury;
(xxix) Robbery;
(xxx) Crimes associated with terrorist activities;
(xxxi) Sabotage;
(xxxii) Assault with a deadly weapon;
(xxxiii) Illegal use or possession of firearms or explosives;
(xxxiv) Any violation of a U.S. immigration law;
(xxxv) Any violation of a Customs law or any other law administered or enforced by Customs involving narcotics or controlled substances, commercial fraud, currency or financial transactions, smuggling, failure to report, or failure to declare;
(xxxvi) Airport security violations; or
(xxxvii) Conspiracy or attempt to commit any of the offenses or acts referred to in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (a)(4)(xxxv) of this section;
(5) Denial or suspension of the applicant's unescorted access authority to a Security Identification Display Area (SIDA) pursuant to regulations promulgated by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration or other appropriate government agency; or
(6) Inability of the applicant's employer or Customs to complete a meaningful background check or investigation of the applicant.
(b)
Notification of denial.
The port director shall give written notification to any person whose application for access to the Customs security area has been denied, fully stating the reasons for denial and setting forth specific appeal procedures. The employer shall be notified in writing that the applicant has been denied access to the area and that the detailed reasons for the denial have been furnished to the applicant. Detailed reasons regarding the denial, however, shall not be furnished to the employer by Customs.
(c)
Appeal of denial.
The denial will be final unless the applicant files with the port director a written notice of appeal within 10 days following receipt of the notice of denial. The notice of appeal shall be filed in duplicate and shall set forth the response of the applicant to the statement of the port director. The port director will render his decision on the appeal to the applicant in writing within 30 calendar days of receipt of the notice of appeal and, if the application is denied on appeal, the decision
will advise the applicant of the procedures for filing a further appeal pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section.
(d)
Further appeal of denial.
Where the application on appeal is denied by the port director, the applicant may file a further written notice of appeal with the director of field operations at the Customs Management Center having jurisdiction over the office of the port director within 10 calendar days of receipt of the port director's decision on the appeal. The further notice of appeal must be filed in duplicate and must set forth the response of the applicant to the decision of the port director. The director of field operations will review the appeal and render a written decision. The final decision will be transmitted to the port director and served by him on the applicant.
[T.D. 90-82, 55 FR 42557, Oct. 22, 1990, as amended by T.D. 02-40, 67 FR 48985, July 29, 2002]
§ 122.184
Change of identification; change in circumstances of employee; additional employer responsibilities.
(a)
Change of identification.
The Customs access seal may be removed from the employee by the port director where, for security reasons, a change in the nature of the identification card or other medium on which it appears is necessary.
(b)
Change in circumstances of employee.
If, after issuance of a Customs access seal to an employee, any circumstance arises (for example, an arrest or conviction for a disqualifying offense) that constitutes a ground for denial of access to the Customs security area under § 122.183(a) or for revocation or suspension of access to the Customs security area and surrender of the Customs access seal under § 122.187(a), the employee must within 24 hours advise the port director in writing of that change in circumstance. In the case of an arrest or prosecution for a disqualifying offense listed in § 122.183(a)(4), the employee also must within 5 calendar days advise the port director in writing of the final disposition of that arrest or prosecution. In addition, if an airport operator or an aircraft operator suspends an employee's unescorted access authority to a Security Identification Display Area pursuant to regulations promulgated by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration or other appropriate government agency and the employee also has an approved Customs access seal, the employee must within 24 hours advise the port director in writing of the fact of, and basis for, the suspension.
(c)
Additional employer responsibilities.
If an employer becomes aware of any change in the circumstances of its employee as described in paragraph (b) of this section, the employer must immediately advise the port director of that fact even though the employee may have separately reported that fact to the port director under paragraph (b) of this section. In addition, each employer must submit to the port director during the first month of each calendar quarter a report setting forth a current list of all its employees who have an approved Customs access seal. The quarterly report must list separately all additions to, and deletions from, the previous quarterly report. Moreover, each employer must take appropriate steps to ensure that an employee uses an approved Customs access seal only in connection with activities relating to his employment.
[T.D. 02-40, 67 FR 48986, July 29, 2002; 67 FR 51928, Aug. 9, 2002]
§ 122.185
Report of loss or theft of Customs access seal.
The loss or theft of an approved Customs access seal must be promptly reported in writing by the employee to the port director. The Customs access seal may be replaced, as provided in § 122.182(f).
[T.D. 02-40, 67 FR 48986, July 29, 2002]
§ 122.186
Presentation of Customs access seal by other person.
If an approved Customs access seal is presented by a person other than the one to whom it was issued, the Customs access seal will be removed and destroyed. An approved Customs access seal may be removed from an employee by any Customs officer designated by the port director.
[T.D. 02-40, 67 FR 48986, July 29, 2002]
§ 122.187
Revocation or suspension of access.
(a)
Grounds for revocation or suspension of access
—(1)
General.
The port director:
(i) Must immediately revoke or suspend an employee's access to the Customs security area and demand the immediate surrender of the employee's approved Customs access seal for any ground specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section; or
(ii) May propose the revocation or suspension of an employee's access to the Customs security area and the surrender of the employee's approved Customs access seal whenever, in the judgment of the port director, it appears for any ground not specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section that continued access might pose an unacceptable risk to public health, interest or safety, national security, aviation safety, the revenue, or the security of the area. In this case the port director will provide the employee with an opportunity to respond to the notice of proposed action.
(2)
Specific grounds.
Access to the Customs security area will be revoked or suspended, and surrender of an approved Customs access seal will be demanded, in any of the following circumstances:
(i) There is probable cause to believe that an approved Customs access seal was obtained through fraud, a material omission, or the misstatement of a material fact;
(ii) The employee is or has been convicted of, or found not guilty of by reason of insanity, or there is probable cause to believe that the employee has committed any act or omission involving, an offense listed in § 122.183(a)(4);
(iii) The employee has been arrested for, or charged with, an offense listed in § 122.183(a)(4) and prosecution or other disposition of the arrest or charge is pending;
(iv) The employee has engaged in any other conduct that would constitute a ground for denial of access to the Customs security area under § 122.183;
(v) The employee permits the approved Customs access seal to be used by any other person or refuses to openly display or produce it upon the proper demand of a Customs officer;
(vi) The employee uses the approved Customs access seal in connection with a matter not related to his employment or not constituting a duty described in the written justification required by § 122.182(c)(1);
(vii) The employee refuses or neglects to obey any proper order of a Customs officer, or any Customs order, rule, or regulation;
(viii) For all employees of the bond holder, if the bond required by § 122.182(c) is determined to be insufficient in amount or lacking sufficient sureties, and a satisfactory new bond with good and sufficient sureties is not furnished within a reasonable time;
(ix) The employee no longer requires access to the Customs security area for an extended period of time at the airport of issuance because of a change in duties, termination of employment, or other reason; or
(x) The employee or employer fails to provide the notification of a change in circumstances as required under § 122.184(b) or (c) or the employee fails to report the loss or theft of a Customs access seal as required under § 122.185.
(b)
Notice of revocation or
suspension. The port director will revoke or suspend access to the Customs security area and demand surrender of the Customs access seal by giving notice of the revocation or suspension and demand in writing to the employee, with a copy of the notice to the employer. The notice will indicate whether the revocation or suspension is effective immediately or is proposed.
(1)
Immediate revocation or suspension.
When the revocation or suspension of access and the surrender of the Customs access seal are effective immediately, the port director will issue a final notice of revocation or suspension. The port director or his designee may deny physical access to the Customs security area and may demand surrender of an approved Customs access seal at any time on an emergency basis prior to issuance of a final notice of revocation or suspension whenever in the judgment of the port director or his designee an emergency situation involving public health, safety, or security is involved and, in such a case, a final notice of revocation or suspension will be issued to the affected employee
within 10 calendar days of the emergency action. A final notice of revocation or suspension will state the specific grounds for the immediate revocation or suspension, direct the employee to immediately surrender the Customs access seal if that Customs access seal has not already been surrendered, and advise the employee that he may choose to pursue one of the following two options:
(i) Submit a new application for an approved Customs access seal, in accordance with the provisions of § 122.182(c), on or after the 180th calendar day following the date of the final notice of revocation or suspension; or
(ii) File a written administrative appeal of the final notice of revocation or suspension with the port director in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section within 30 calendar days of the date of the final notice of revocation or suspension. The appeal may request that a hearing be held in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, and in that case the appeal also must demonstrate that there is a genuine issue of fact that is material to the revocation or suspension action.
(2)
Proposed revocation or suspension
—(i)
Issuance of notice.
When the revocation or suspension of access and the surrender of the Customs access seal is proposed, the port director will issue a notice of proposed revocation or suspension. The notice of proposed revocation or suspension will state the specific grounds for the proposed action, inform the employee that he may continue to have access to the Customs security area and may retain the Customs access seal pending issuance of a final notice under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, and advise the employee that he may file with the port director a written response addressing the grounds for the proposed action within 10 calendar days of the date the notice of proposed action was received by the employee. The employee may respond by accepting responsibility, explaining extenuating circumstances, and/or providing rebuttal evidence. The employee also may ask for a meeting with the port director or his designee to discuss the proposed action.
(ii)
Final notice
—(A)
Based on nonresponse.
If the employee does not respond to the notice of proposed action, the port director will issue a final notice of revocation or suspension within 30 calendar days of the date the notice of proposed action was received by the employee. The final notice of revocation or suspension will state the specific grounds for the revocation or suspension, direct the employee to immediately surrender the Customs access seal, and advise the employee that he may choose to pursue one of the two options specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(B)
Based on response.
If the employee files a timely response, the port director will issue a final determination regarding the status of the employee's right of access to the Customs security area within 30 calendar days of the date the employee's response was received by the port director. If this final determination is adverse to the employee, then the final notice of revocation or suspension will state the specific grounds for the revocation or suspension, direct the employee to immediately surrender the Customs access seal, and advise the employee that he may choose to pursue one of the two options specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(c)
Appeal procedures
—(1)
Filing of appeal.
The employee may file a written appeal of the final notice of revocation or suspension with the port director within 10 calendar days following receipt of the final notice of revocation or suspension. The appeal must be filed in duplicate and must set forth the response of the employee to the statement of the port director. The port director may, in his discretion, allow the employee additional time to submit documentation or other information in support of the appeal.
(2)
Action by port director
—(i)
If a hearing is requested.
If the appeal requests that a hearing be held, the port director will first review the appeal to determine whether there is a genuine issue of fact that is material to the revocation or suspension action. If a hearing is required because the port director finds that there is a genuine issue of fact that is material to the revocation or suspension action, a
hearing will be held, and a decision on the appeal will be rendered, in accordance with paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section. If the port director finds that there is no genuine issue of fact that is material to the revocation or suspension action, no hearing will be held and the port director will forward the administrative record as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section for the rendering of a decision on the appeal under paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(ii)
CMC review.
If no hearing is requested or if the port director finds that a requested hearing is not required, following receipt of the appeal the port director will forward the administrative record to the director of field operations at the Customs Management Center having jurisdiction over the office of the port director for a decision on the appeal. The transmittal of the port director must include a response to any disputed issues raised in the appeal.
(3)
Action by the director.
Following receipt of the administrative record from the port director, the director of field operations will render a written decision on the appeal based on the record forwarded by the port director. The decision will be rendered within 30 calendar days of receipt of the record and will be transmitted to the port director and served by the port director on the employee. A decision on an appeal rendered under this paragraph will constitute the final administrative action on the matter.
(d)
Hearing.
A hearing will be conducted in connection with an appeal of a final notice of revocation or suspension of access to the Customs security area only if the affected employee in writing requests a hearing and demonstrates that there is a genuine issue of fact that is material to the revocation or suspension action. If a hearing is required, it must be held before a hearing officer designated by the Commissioner, or his designee. The employee will be notified of the time and place of the hearing at least 5 calendar days before the hearing. The employee may be represented by counsel at the revocation or suspension hearing. All evidence and testimony of witnesses in the proceeding, including substantiation of charges and the answer to the charges, must be presented. Both parties will have the right of cross'examination. A stenographic record of the proceedings will be made upon request and a copy furnished to the employee. At the conclusion of the proceedings or review of a written appeal, the hearing officer must promptly transmit all papers and the stenographic record to the director of field operations, together with the recommendation for final action. If neither the employee nor his attorney appears for a scheduled hearing, the hearing officer must record that fact, accept any appropriate testimony, and conclude the hearing. The hearing officer must promptly transmit all papers, together with his recommendations, to the director of field operations.
(e)
Additional written views.
Within 10 calendar days after delivery of a copy of the stenographic record of the hearing to the director of field operations, either party may submit to the director of field operations additional written views and arguments on matters in the record. A copy of any submission will be provided to the other party. Within 10 calendar days of receipt of the copy of the submission, the other party may file a reply with the director of field operations, and a copy of the reply will be provided to the other party. No further submissions will be accepted.
(f)
Decision.
After consideration of the recommendation of the hearing officer and any additional written submissions and replies made under paragraph (e) of this section, the director of field operations will render a written decision. The decision will be transmitted to the port director and served by the port director on the employee. A decision on an appeal rendered under this paragraph will constitute the final administrative action on the matter.
[T.D. 02-40, 67 FR 48986, July 29, 2002; 67 FR 51928, Aug. 9, 2002; 67 FR 54023, Aug. 20, 2002]
§ 122.188
Issuance of temporary Customs access seal.
(a)
Conditions for issuance.
When an approved Customs access seal is required under § 122.182(a) of this part and the port director determines that the application cannot be administratively
processed in a reasonable period of time, an employer may, upon written request, be issued a temporary Customs access seal for his employee. The employer must satisfy the port director that a hardship would result if the request is not granted. Surety on the bond, as required by § 122.182(c), may be waived in the discretion of the port director but only for the period of the temporary Customs access seal and its renewal period.
(b)
Validation period.
The temporary Customs access seal shall be valid for a period of 60 days. The port director may renew the temporary Customs access seal for additional 30 day periods where the circumstances under which the temporary Customs access seal was originally issued continue to exist. The temporary Customs access seal shall be destroyed by the port director when the permanent approved Customs access seal is issued, or the privileges granted thereby are withdrawn.
(c)
Temporary employees and official visitors.
The provisions of this section shall also apply to temporary employees and official visitors requiring access to the Customs security area. In the case of temporary employees, the Customs access seal shall be valid for a period of 30 days. In the case of official visitors, the temporary Customs access seal shall be valid for the day of issuance only. Temporary employee and official visitor Customs access seal are renewable for periods equal to their original period of validity.
(d)
Revocation of denial and access.
The temporary Customs access seal may be revoked and access to the Customs security area denied at any time if the holder of the temporary Customs access seal refuses or neglects to obey any proper order of a Customs officer, or any Customs order, rule, or regulation, or if, in the judgment of the port director, continuation of the privileges granted thereby would endanger the revenue or pose a threat to the Customs security area.
[T.D. 90-82, 55 FR 42557, Oct. 22, 1990, as amended by T.D. 02-40, 67 FR 48988, July 29, 2002]
§ 122.189
Bond liability.
Any failure on the part of a principal to comply with the conditions of the bond required under § 122.182(c), including a failure of an employer to comply with any requirement applicable to the employer under this subpart, will constitute a breach of the bond and may result in a claim for liquidated damages under the bond.
[T.D. 02-40, 67 FR 48988, July 29, 2002]
Pt. 123

# PART 123—CBP RELATIONS WITH CANADA AND MEXICO
Sec.
123.0
Scope.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
123.1
Report of arrival from Canada or Mexico and permission to proceed.
123.2
Penalty for failure to report arrival or for proceeding without a permit.
123.3
Inward foreign manifest required.
123.4
Inward foreign manifest forms to be used.
123.5
Certification and filing of inward foreign manifest.
123.6
Train sheet for arriving railroad trains.
123.7
Manifest used as an entry for unconditionally free merchandise valued not over $250.
123.8
Permit or special license to unlade or lade a vessel or vehicle.
123.9
Explanation of a discrepancy in a manifest.
123.10
General order merchandise.

# Subpart B—International Traffic
123.11
Supplies on international trains.
123.12
Entry of foreign locomotives and equipment in international traffic.
123.13
Foreign repairs to domestic locomotives and other domestic railroad equipment.
123.14
Entry of foreign-based trucks, busses, and taxicabs in international traffic.
123.15
Vehicles of foreign origin used between communities of the United States and Canada or Mexico.
123.16
Entry of returning trucks, busses, or taxicabs in international traffic.
123.17
Foreign repairs to domestic trucks, busses, taxicabs and their equipment.
123.18
Equipment and materials for constructing bridges or tunnels between the United States and Canada or Mexico.

# Subpart C—Shipments In Transit Through Canada or Mexico
123.21
Merchandise in transit.
123.22
In-transit manifest.
123.23
Train sheet for in-transit rail shipments.
123.24
Sealing of conveyances or compartments.
123.25
Certification and disposition of manifests.
123.26
Transshipment of merchandise moving through Canada or Mexico.
123.27
Feeding and watering animals in Canada.
123.28
Merchandise remaining in or exported to Canada or Mexico.
123.29
Procedure on arrival at port of re-entry.

# Subpart D—Shipments in Transit Through the United States
123.31
Merchandise in transit.
123.32
In-bond application.
123.33-123.34
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—United States and Canada In-Transit Truck Procedures
123.41
Truck shipments transiting Canada.
123.42
Truck shipments transiting the United States.

# Subpart F—Commercial Traveler's Samples in Transit Through the United States or Canada
123.51
Commercial samples transported by automobile through Canada between ports in the United States.
123.52
Commercial samples transported by automobile through the United States between ports in Canada.

# Subpart G—Baggage
123.61
Baggage arriving in baggage car.
123.62
Baggage in possession of traveler.
123.63
Examination of baggage from Canada or Mexico.
123.64
Baggage in transit through the United States between ports in Canada or in Mexico.
123.65
Domestic baggage transiting Canada or Mexico between ports in the United States.
Subpart H [Reserved]

# Subpart I—Miscellaneous Provisions
123.81
Merchandise found in building on the boundary.
123.82
Treatment of stolen vehicles returned from Mexico.

# Subpart J—Advance Information for Cargo Arriving by Rail or Truck
123.91
Electronic information for rail cargo required in advance of arrival.
123.92
Electronic information for truck cargo required in advance of arrival.

# Authority:
19 U.S.C. 66, 1202 (General Note 3(i), Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS)), 1415, 1431, 1433, 1436, 1448, 1624, 2071 note.
Section 123.1 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1459;
Section 123.2 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1459;
Section 123.3 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1459;
Section 123.4 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1484, 1498;
Section 123.7 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1498;
Section 123.8 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1450-1454, 1459;
Section 123.9 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1460, 1584, 1618;
Section 123.12 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1202 (Chapter 86, Additional U.S. Note 1, HTSUS), 1322;
Sections 123.13-123.18 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1322;
Sections 123.21-123.23, 123.25-123.29, 123.41, 123.51 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1554;
Section 123.24 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1551;
Sections 123.31-123.34, 123.42, 123.52, 123.64 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1553;
Section 123.63 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1461, 1462;
Section 123.81 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1595.

# Source:
T.D. 70-121, 35 FR 8215, May 26, 1970, unless otherwise noted.
§ 123.0
Scope.
This part contains special regulations pertaining to CBP procedures at the Canadian and Mexican borders. Included are provisions governing report of arrival, manifesting, unlading and lading, instruments of international traffic, shipments in transit through Canada or Mexico or through the United States, commercial traveler's samples transiting the United States or Canada, baggage arriving from Canada or Mexico including baggage transiting the United States or Canada or Mexico, and electronic information for rail and truck cargo in advance of arrival. Aircraft arriving from or departing for Canada or Mexico are governed by the provisions of part 122 of this chapter. The arrival of all vessels from, and clearance of all vessels departing for, Canada or Mexico are governed by the provisions of part 4 of this chapter. Fees for services provided in connection with the arrival of aircraft, vessels, vehicles and other conveyances from Canada or Mexico are set forth in
§ 24.22 of this chapter. Regulations pertaining to the treatment of goods from Canada or Mexico under the North American Free Trade Agreement are contained in part 181 of this chapter. Regulations pertaining to the treatment of goods from Canada or Mexico under the Agreement Between the United States of America, the United Mexican States, and Canada (USMCA) are contained in part 182 of this chapter. The requirements for the United States Postal Service to transmit advance electronic information for inbound international mail shipments are set forth in § 145.74 of this chapter.
[CBP Dec. 24-18, 90 FR 6481, Jan. 17, 2025]

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 123.1
Report of arrival from Canada or Mexico and permission to proceed.
(a)
Individuals.
Individuals arriving in the United States, unless excepted by voluntary enrollment in and compliance with PORTPASS—a joint Customs Service/Immigration and Naturalization Service facilitated entry program (See, Immigration and Naturalization Regulations at 8 CFR 235.7), must report their arrival to Customs, and failure to report arrival may result in the individual being liable for certain civil and criminal penalties, as provided under 19 U.S.C. 1459, in addition to other penalties applicable under other provisions of law. The specific reporting requirements are as follows:
(1)
Individuals not arriving by conveyance.
Persons arriving otherwise than by conveyance may enter the U.S. only at those locations specified by the Commissioner of Customs, or his designee, and shall then immediately report their arrival to Customs. Such persons shall not depart from the Customs port or station until authorized to do so by the appropriate Customs officer.
(2)
Persons arriving aboard a conveyance that reported its arrival.
Persons aboard a conveyance the arrival of which has been reported to Customs at locations specified by the Commissioner of Customs, or his designee in accordance with section 1433, 1644 or 1644a of title 19, United States Code (19 U.S.C. 1433, 1644, 1644a), shall remain on board until authorized by Customs to depart, and shall then immediately report to the designated Customs facility together with all articles accompanying them.
(3)
Persons arriving aboard a conveyance that has not reported its arrival.
Persons aboard a conveyance the arrival of which has not been reported in accordance with the laws referred to in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, shall immediately notify a Customs officer and report their arrival, together with appropriate information concerning the conveyance on or in which they arrived, at a location or locations specified by the Commissioner of Customs, or his designee and shall present themselves and their property for Customs inspection and examination.
(b)
Vehicles.
Vehicles may arrive in the U.S. only at a designated port of entry (see § 101.3 of this chapter) or Customs station if the Commissioner of Customs, or his designee authorizes entry at that station (see § 101.4 of this chapter). Upon arrival of the vehicle in the U.S., the driver, unless he or she and all of the vehicle's occupants are excepted by enrollment in, and in compliance with, PORTPASS—a joint Customs Service/Immigration and Naturalization Service facilitated entry program (See, Immigration and Naturalization Regulations at 8 CFR 235.1 and 286.8), immediately shall report such arrival to Customs, and shall not depart or discharge any passenger or merchandise (including baggage) without authorization by the appropriate Customs officer.
(c)
Vessels.
For report of arrival requirements applicable to all vessels, regardless of tonnage, and arriving from any location, see § 4.2 of this chapter.
(d)
Method of reporting.
Report of arrival under paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section shall be made in person unless the port director, by local instructions, requires that it be made by some other specific means. Such local instructions issued by the port director will be made available to interested parties by posting in Customs offices, publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the Customs port that
supervises the location, and/or other appropriate means.
[T.D. 93-96, 58 FR 67317, Dec. 21, 1993, as amended by T.D. 94-44, 59 FR 23795, May 9, 1994; T.D. 97-48, 62 FR 32031, June 12, 1997; T.D. 98-74, 63 FR 51289, Sept. 25, 1998; CBP Dec. 04-28, 69 FR 52599, Aug. 27, 2004]
§ 123.2
Penalty for failure to report arrival or for proceeding without a permit.
(a)
Persons.
Any person arriving otherwise than by conveyance who enters the U.S. at other than a designated port of entry, or Customs station if authorization exists for entry at that station, who fails to report arrival as required in § 123.1(a) of this part, or who departs from the port of entry or Customs station without authorization by the appropriate Customs officer, whether or not intentionally, shall be subject to such civil and criminal penalties as are prescribed under 19 U.S.C. 1459 and provided for in § 123.1 of this part.
(b)
Vessels.
The penalty provisions applicable to vessels for failure to report arrival or for proceeding without a permit are those as provided in § 4.3a.
(c)
Vehicles
—(1)
Civil penalties.
The person in charge of any vehicle who—
(i) Enters the vehicle into the U.S. at other than a designated port of entry, or Customs station if authorization exists for entry at that station;
(ii) Fails to report arrival and present the vehicle and all persons and merchandise (including baggage) on board for inspection as required in § 123.1(b) of this part;
(iii) Fails to file a manifest or any other document required to be filed in connection with arrival in the U.S. under this part; or
(iv) Without authorization by the appropriate Customs officer, removes such vehicle from the port of entry or Customs station or discharges any passenger or merchandise (including baggage) shall be subject to such civil penalties as are prescribed in section 436, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1436), and any conveyance used in connection with any such violation shall be subject to seizure and forfeiture. The person also may be subject to an additional civil penalty equal to the value of the merchandise on the conveyance which was not entered or reported as required by § 123.1(b) of this part, and that merchandise may be subject to seizure and forfeiture unless properly entered by the importer or consignee. If the merchandise consists of any controlled substances, additional penalties may be assessed, as prescribed in section 584, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1584).
(2)
Criminal penalties.
Upon conviction, any person in charge of a vehicle who intentionally commits any of the violations described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall, in addition to the penalties described therein, be subject to such additional criminal penalties as are prescribed in section 436, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1436). If the vehicle has or is discovered to have had on board any merchandise (other than sea stores or the equivalent for conveyances other than vessels) the importation of which into the U.S. is prohibited, the person in charge of the vehicle is subject to such additional criminal penalties as are prescribed in section 436, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1436).
[T.D. 93-96, 58 FR 67318, Dec. 21, 1993]
§ 123.3
Inward foreign manifest required.
(a)
General requirements.
Baggage or other merchandise carried on a vehicle or on a vessel of less than 5 net tons arriving otherwise than by sea from Canada or Mexico shall be listed on a manifest as prescribed by § 123.4. Vessels which are required to make entry under § 4.3 of this chapter because they are arriving by sea or are 5 net tons or over shall have manifests on board as provided in § 4.7(a) of this chapter.
(b)
Exception where in possession of traveler.
When baggage arrives in the actual possession of a traveler, his declaration will be accepted in lieu of a manifest. Merchandise imported by a person otherwise than in a vessel or vehicle need not be covered by a manifest but shall be presented for inspection, and entry shall be made in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations.
§ 123.4
Inward foreign manifest forms to be used.
The inward foreign manifest required by § 123.3 for a vehicle or a vessel of less than 5 net tons arriving in the United States from Canada or Mexico otherwise than by sea with baggage or merchandise, must be on CBP Form 7533, except as provided for shipments in transit in subparts C, D, E, F, and G of this part, and in the following special cases:
(a) For merchandise free of duty entered on CBP Form 7523, the same form may be used as a manifest in lieu of other forms. (See § 143.23 of this chapter.)
(b) For dutiable merchandise not exceeding $2,500 in value entered on CBP Form 368 or 368A, (serially numbered) or CBP Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent, the same form may be used as a manifest in lieu of other forms. (See § 143.21 of this chapter.) The port director may also allow such merchandise to be entered informally upon the presentation of a commercial invoice which contains the following declaration, signed by the importer or his agent:
I declare that the information on this invoice is accurate to the best of my knowledge and belief; that the invoice quantities are true and correct manifest quantities; and that I have not received and do not know of any invoice other than this one.
(c) For a shipment not exceeding $250 in value consisting of articles of American origin entered free of duty under the provisions of § 10.1(i) of this chapter and imported in a vehicle, CBP Form 3311, or its electronic equivalent, used in entering the goods, in duplicate, may be accepted in lieu of a manifest.
(d) For baggage arriving in baggage cars, CBP Form 7533 must be used. (See subpart G of this part.)
[T.D. 70-121, 35 FR 8215, May 26, 1970, as amended by T.D. 73-175, 38 FR 17447, July 2, 1973; T.D. 75-105, 40 FR 19813, May 7, 1975; T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35478, Aug. 16, 1982; T.D. 87-75, 52 FR 26142, July 13, 1987; T.D. 92-56, 57 FR 24944, June 12, 1992; T.D. 94-47, 59 FR 25570, May 17, 1994; T.D. 98-28, 63 FR 16416, Apr. 3, 1998; 77 FR 72719, Dec. 6, 2012; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61287, Oct. 13, 2015]
§ 123.5
Certification and filing of inward foreign manifest.
The manifest listing baggage and other merchandise, certified by the master of the vessel or the person in charge of the vehicle, shall be presented to the Customs officer at the time the report of arrival is made. It shall be filed in the original only, unless additional copies are required in this part.
§ 123.6
Train sheet for arriving railroad trains.
The conductor of a railroad train arriving from Canada or Mexico shall present to the Customs officer at the port of arrival individual car manifests and a train sheet, sometimes called a consist, bridge sheet, or trip sheet, listing each car and showing the car numbers and initials.
§ 123.7
Manifest used as an entry for unconditionally free merchandise value not over $250.
When a shipment not exceeding $250 in value which is unconditionally free of duty and not subject to quota or to internal revenue tax arrives on a vessel of less than 5 net tons arriving otherwise than by sea, the inward foreign manifest on Customs Form 7533 may be presented in duplicate and used as an entry if:
(a) No merchandise for a different entrant is listed on the same page of the manifest,
(b) The country of exportation of the merchandise, its value, and the provision of law under which free entry is claimed are noted thereon, and
(c) Evidence of the right to make entry is furnished as required by § 141.11 of this chapter.
[T.D. 70-121, 35 FR 8215, May 26, 1970, as amended by T.D. 73-175, 38 FR 17447, July 2, 1973]
§ 123.8
Permit or special license to unlade or lade a vessel or vehicle.
(a)
Permission to unlade or lade.
Before any passenger or merchandise, including baggage, may be landed or discharged from any vessel of less than 5 net tons arriving from Canada or Mexico by any route, or from a vehicle, permission to unlade shall be obtained from a Customs officer. Permission to
unlade during overtime hours, on a Sunday or holiday, or to lade during overtime hours on a Sunday or holiday merchandise requiring Customs supervision, shall be obtained from the port director. Permission to unlade or lade a truck will be denied for any cargo with respect to which advance electronic information has not been received as provided in § 123.92 or § 192.14 of this chapter, as applicable. In cases in which CBP does not receive complete cargo information in the time and manner and in the electronic format required by § 123.92 or § 192.14 of this chapter, as applicable, CBP may delay issuance of a permit or special license to unlade or lade a truck. Permission to unlade is not required for a vessel of less than 5 net tons arriving otherwise than by sea carrying no baggage or other merchandise. For permission to unlade or lade for vessels of 5 net tons or over, see § 4.30 of this chapter.
(b)
Application for permit or special license to unlade or lade
—(1)
Permit to unlade during regular hours.
Application for a permit to unlade any vehicle or a vessel of less than 5 net tons may be made and permission may be granted orally. The port director may require that the application and permission to unlade be on Customs Form 3171.
(2)
Special license to unlade or lade at night, on a Sunday or holiday.
Application for permission to unlade passengers or merchandise from, or lade any merchandise requiring Customs supervision on, a vessel of less than 5 net tons or a vehicle arriving from or departing for Canada or Mexico by any route at night, on a Sunday or holiday, and requests for any reimbursable overtime services shall be made on Customs Form 3171. In the discretion of the port director and under such condition as he may deem advisable the application may be made orally for vessels of less than 5 net tons and vehicles not carrying persons or property for hire, but requests for reimbursable overtime services shall be on Customs Form 3171. The port director may authorize Customs inspectors to approve the request for overtime services and to grant oral permission to unlade or lade.
(c)
Cash deposit or bond for overtime services.
A request for reimbursable overtime services shall not be approved unless the required cash deposit or bond on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.64 of this chapter, is on file or is filed with the request.
(d)
Term permit or special license.
A permit or special license required by this section may be issued on a term basis in the manner, and under the conditions applicable, described in § 4.30 (f) or (g) of this chapter. A term permit or special license to unlade or lade a truck already issued will not be applicable as to any cargo with respect to which advance electronic information has not been received as provided in § 123.92 or § 192.14 of this chapter, as applicable.
[T.D. 70-121, 35 FR 8215, May 26, 1970, as amended by T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41183, Oct. 19, 1984; T.D. 94-2, 58 FR 68526, Dec. 28, 1993; CBP Dec. 03-32, 68 FR 68173, Dec. 5, 2003]
§ 123.9
Explanation of a discrepancy in a manifest.
(a)
Provisions applicable
—(1)
Overages.
If any merchandise (including sea stores or its equivalent) is found on board a vessel or vehicle arriving in the U.S. that is not listed on a manifest filed in accordance with § 123.5 of this part, or after having been unladen from such vessel or vehicle, is found not to have been included or described in the manifest or does not agree therewith (an overage), the master, person in charge, or owner of the vessel or vehicle or any person directly or indirectly responsible for the discrepancy is subject to such penalties as are prescribed in section 584, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1584), and any such merchandise belonging or consigned to the master, person in charge, or owner of the vehicle is subject to seizure and forfeiture.
(2)
Shortages.
If merchandise is manifested but not found on board a vessel or vehicle arriving in the U.S. (a shortage), the master, person in charge, or owner of the vessel or vehicle or any person directly or indirectly responsible for the discrepancy is subject to such penalties as are prescribed in section 584, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1584).
(3)
Failure to file a manifest.
The master or person in charge of a vessel or vehicle arriving in the U.S. or the U.S. Virgin Islands who fails to present a manifest to Customs is liable for civil penalties as are provided by law, and the conveyance used in connection with the failure to file is subject to seizure and forfeiture. A criminal conviction for intentional failure to file shall make the master or person in charge liable for criminal penalties, as provided by statute, and if any merchandise is found or determined to have been on board (other than sea stores or the equivalent for vehicles), the importation of which is prohibited, additional penalties may apply.
(b)
Report of discrepancies
—(1)
Discrepancies discovered by master, person in charge, owner, agent, or person directly or indirectly responsible.
The master, person in charge, owner, or agent of the vessel or vehicle, or any person directly or indirectly responsible for any discrepancy between the merchandise and the manifest, shall report any discrepancy to the port director within 60 days after the date of arrival by completing a report for an overage or a declaration for a shortage. The overage report or shortage declaration may be made on the appropriate manifest form, as listed in § 123.4, or on Customs Form 5931, Discrepancy Report and Declaration. If no manifest has been filed, an original copy of the appropriate form, as listed in § 123.4, should be used. In each case in which a manifest form is used, the form shall be marked or stamped “Overage Report” or “Shortage Declaration”, as appropriate. The form used shall list the merchandise involved and state the reasons for the discrepancy.
(2)
Discrepancies discovered by Customs.
The port director immediately shall advise the master, person in charge, owner, agent, or any person directly or indirectly responsible for the discrepancy between the merchandise and the manifest of any discrepancy discovered by Customs officers which has not been reported. The person so notified shall file an explanation of the discrepancy, as required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, within 30 days of notification, or within 60 days after arrival of the vessel or vehicle, whichever is later. The port director may notify the master, person in charge, owner, agent, or any person directly or indirectly responsible for the discrepancy by furnishing a copy of Customs Form 5931 to that person, or by any other appropriate written means. Use of Customs Form 5931 shall not preclude assessment of any penalty or liability to forfeiture otherwise incurred.
(c)
Statement on report of discrepancy required.
The overage report or shortage declaration shall bear the following statement signed by the master of the vessel, the person in charge of the vehicle, the owner of the vessel or vehicle, an authorized agent, or the person directly or indirectly responsible for the discrepancy:
I declare to the best of my knowledge and belief that the discrepancy described herein occurred for the reasons stated. I also certify that evidence to support a claim of nonimportation or proper disposition of merchandise will be retained in the carrier's files for a period of at least one year from the date of this report of discrepancy and will be made available to Customs upon demand.
(d)
Action on the discrepancy report.
(1) In accordance with the proviso to 19 U.S.C. 1584, no penalty shall be incurred under that section if—
(i) The manifest discrepancy relates only to a shortage;
(ii) There is timely filing of the discrepancy report;
(iii) There has been no loss of revenue;
(iv) The port director is satisfied that the discrepancy resulted from clerical error or other mistake; and
(v) In the case of a discrepancy not reported initially by the master, person in charge, owner, agent, or the person directly or indirectly responsible, the port director is satisfied that there is a valid reason for failure to file the discrepancy report.
(2) If the criteria in paragraph (d)(1) of this section are not met, applicable penalties under 19 U.S.C. 1584 shall be assessed.
(3) Any penalty or liability to forfeiture incurred under 19 U.S.C. 1584 may be mitigated or remitted under section 618, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1618).
(e)
Penalty assessment.
For the purpose of assessing penalties under 19 U.S.C. 1584, the value of the merchandise shall be determined as described in section 162.43 of this chapter.
(f)
Lack of knowledge does not relieve liability.
The fact that the master of the vessel, the person in charge of the vehicle, or the owner of the vessel or vehicle had no knowledge of a discrepancy shall not relieve the master, the person in charge, or the owner from a penalty, or the vessel or vehicle from liability to forfeiture, incurred under 19 U.S.C. 1584.
(g)
Clerical error or other mistake defined.
For the purpose of this section, the term “clerical error or other mistake” is defined as a non-negligent, inadvertent, or typographical mistake in the preparation, assembly, or submission of manifests. However, repeated similar manifest discrepancies by the same persons may be considered the result of negligence and not clerical error or other mistake.
[T.D. 80-236, 45 FR 64172, Sept. 29, 1980, as amended by T.D. 93-96, 58 FR 67318, Dec. 21, 1993]
§ 123.10
General order merchandise.
(a) Any merchandise or baggage regularly landed but not covered by a permit for its release shall be allowed to remain at the place of unlading until the fifteenth calendar day after landing. No later than 20 calendar days after landing, the owner or operator of the vehicle or the agent thereof shall notify Customs of any such merchandise or baggage for which entry has not been made. Such notification shall be provided in writing or by any appropriate Customs-authorized electronic data interchange system. Failure to provide such notification may result in assessment of a monetary penalty of up to $1,000 per bill of lading against the owner or operator of the vehicle or the agent thereof. If the value of the merchandise on the bill is less than $1,000, the penalty shall be equal to the value of such merchandise.
(b) Any merchandise or baggage that is taken into custody from an arriving carrier by any party under a Customs-authorized permit to transfer or in-bond entry may remain in the custody of that party for 15 calendar days after receipt under such permit to transfer or 15 calendar days after arrival at the port of destination. No later than 20 calendar days after receipt under the permit to transfer or 20 calendar days after arrival under bond at the port of destination, the party shall notify Customs of any such merchandise or baggage for which entry has not been made. Such notification shall be provided in writing or by any appropriate Customs-authorized electronic data interchange system. If the party fails to notify Customs of the unentered merchandise or baggage in the allotted time, he may be liable for the payment of liquidated damages under the terms and conditions of his custodial bond (see § 113.63(c)(4) of this chapter).
(c) In addition to the notification to Customs required under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the carrier (or any other party to whom custody of the unentered merchandise has been transferred by a Customs authorized permit to transfer or in-bond entry) shall provide notification of the presence of such unreleased and unentered merchandise or baggage to a bonded warehouse certified by the port director as qualified to receive general order merchandise. Such notification shall be provided in writing or by any appropriate Customs-authorized electronic data interchange system and shall be provided within the applicable 20-day period specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section. It shall then be the responsibility of the bonded warehouse proprietor to arrange for the transportation and storage of the merchandise or baggage at the risk and expense of the consignee. The arriving carrier (or other party to whom custody of the merchandise was transferred by the carrier under a Customs-authorized permit to transfer or in-bond entry) is responsible for preparing a Customs Form (CF) 6043 (Delivery Ticket), or other similar Customs document as designated by the port director or an electronic equivalent as authorized by Customs, to cover the proprietor's receipt of the merchandise and its transport to the warehouse from the custody of the arriving carrier (or other party to whom custody of the merchandise was transferred by the carrier under a Customs-authorized permit to transfer
or in-bond entry) (
see
§ 19.9 of this chapter). Any unentered merchandise or baggage shall remain the responsibility of the carrier, master, or person in charge of the importing vehicle or the agent thereof or party to whom the merchandise has been transferred under a Customs authorized permit to transfer or in-bond entry until it is properly transferred from his control in accordance with this paragraph. If the party to whom custody of the unentered merchandise or baggage has been transferred by a Customs-authorized permit to transfer or in-bond entry fails to notify a Customs-approved bonded warehouse of such merchandise or baggage within the applicable 20-calendar-day period, he may be liable for the payment of liquidated damages of $1,000 per bill of lading under the terms and conditions of his international carrier or custodial bond (see §§ 113.63(b), 113.63(c) and 113.64(b) of this chapter).
(d) If the carrier or any other party to whom custody of the unentered merchandise has been transferred by a Customs-authorized permit to transfer or in-bond entry fails to timely relinquish custody of the merchandise to a Customs-approved bonded General Order warehouse, the carrier or other party may be liable for liquidated damages equal to the value of that merchandise under the terms and conditions of his international carrier or custodial bond, as applicable.
(e) If the bonded warehouse operator fails to take possession of unentered and unreleased merchandise or baggage within five calendar days after receipt of notification of the presence of such merchandise or baggage under this section, he may be liable for the payment of liquidated damages under the terms and conditions of his custodial bond (see § 113.63(a)(1) of this chapter). If the port director finds that the warehouse proprietor cannot accept the goods because they are required by law to be exported or destroyed (
see
§ 127.28 of this chapter), or for other good cause, the goods will remain in the custody of the arriving carrier or other party to whom the goods have been transferred under a Customs-authorized permit to transfer or in-bond entry. In this event, the carrier or other party will be responsible under bond for exporting or destroying the goods, as necessary (
see
§§ 113.63(c)(3) and 113.64(b) of this chapter).
(f) In ports where there is no bonded warehouse authorized to accept general order merchandise, or if merchandise requires specialized storage facilities which are unavailable in a bonded facility, the port director, after having received notice of the presence of unentered merchandise or baggage in accordance with the provisions of this section, shall direct the storage of the merchandise by the carrier or by any other appropriate means.
(g) Merchandise taken into the custody of the port director pursuant to section 490(b), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1490(b)), shall be sent to a general order warehouse after 1 day after the day the vehicle arrived, to be held there at the risk and expense of the consignee.
[T.D. 98-74, 63 FR 51289, Sept. 25, 1998, as amended by T.D. 02-65, 67 FR 68033, Nov. 8, 2002]

# Subpart B—International Traffic
§ 123.11
Supplies on international trains.
(a)
Articles acquired abroad.
Articles subject to internal revenue tax and other merchandise acquired abroad constituting supplies arriving on international trains crossing and recrossing the boundary line, for which the train crew elects not to file an inventory as provided for in paragraph (b) of this section, shall be subject to duty and tax unless locked or sealed in a separate compartment or locker upon arrival, and the lock or seal remains unbroken until the train departs from the United States at the final port of exit.
(b)
Inventory procedure.
Supplies acquired abroad for which internal revenue stamps are not required may be used in the United States under the following procedure:
(1)
Port of arrival.
An inventory executed in duplicate consisting of an itemized list showing the kind and quantity of each class of supplies on hand in the car with space for a parallel column in which to show at the port of exit the quantity used, shall be certified by the person in charge of the
car and furnished to the Customs officer upon arrival. The Customs officer shall certify the correctness of both copies of the inventory, return the original to the person in charge of the car and retain the duplicate, or forward it to the port of exit if this differs from the port of arrival.
(2)
Port of exit.
Upon arrival at the port of exit, the inventory returned at the port of arrival to the person in charge of the car shall be submitted to the Customs officer after completion by showing the quantity of each item used in the United States, and being certified by the person in charge of the car. Entries must be filed and applicable duties and taxes paid at the port of exit on the quantity of supplies consumed in the United States.
(c)
Supplies purchased in the United States.
Supplies purchased in the United States shall be passed free of duty without inventory or entry.
§ 123.12
Entry of foreign locomotives and equipment in international traffic.
(a)
Use on a continuous route.
Foreign locomotives or other foreign railroad equipment in use on a continuous route crossing the boundary into the United States shall be admitted without formal entry or the payment of duty to proceed to the end of the run and depart for a foreign country, in accordance with the following:
(1)
On inward trip.
Unless formally entered and cleared through Customs into the United States, or unless exempt from entry as provided in § 141.4(b)(4) of this chapter, a foreign locomotive shall be used on the inward trip only in connection with taking the inbound train to the last place in a continuous haul, including the switching of cars which it has hauled into the United States. Other foreign railroad equipment may proceed to the place of complete unloading for any merchandise imported therein.
(2)
On outward trip.
Unless formally entered and cleared through Customs into the United States, or unless exempt from entry as provided in § 141.4(b)(4) of this chapter, foreign locomotives may be used on the outward trip only in connection with through trains crossing the boundary, including switching to make up such trains. Other foreign railroad equipment may be used in such trains or for such local traffic as is reasonably incidental to its economical and prompt departure for a foreign country.
(b)
Admission of empty equipment.
Empty foreign railroad equipment shall be admitted to the United States without formal entry and payment of duty only if:
(1) The passengers or goods to be loaded are to be transported directly to or through a foreign country; or
(2) The equipment is exempt from entry as provided in § 141.4(b)(4) of this chapter.
(c)
Penalty for improper use.
The use of any foreign locomotive and other foreign railroad equipment in violation of this section may result in liabilities being incurred under section 592, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1592).
(d)
Domestic and foreign locomotives and other railroad equipment defined.
For the purpose of this section and § 123.13, locomotives or other railroad equipment manufactured in, or regularly imported into, the United States, shall be considered “domestic” if not subsequently formally entered and cleared through foreign customs into another country, nor used in foreign local traffic otherwise than as an incident of the return of the equipment to the United States. Other locomotives and railroad equipment shall be considered “foreign”.
[T.D. 70-121, 35 FR 8215, May 26, 1970, as amended by T.D. 73-73, 38 FR 6991, Mar. 15, 1973; T.D. 79-160, 44 FR 31956, June 4, 1979; T.D. 83-118, 48 FR 23385, May 25, 1983; T.D. 94-51, 59 FR 30294, June 13, 1994]
§ 123.13
Foreign repairs to domestic locomotives and other domestic railroad equipment.
A report of the first arrival in the United States of a domestic locomotive or other railroad equipment after repairs have been made in a foreign country other than those required to restore it to the condition in which it last left the United States (“running repairs”), shall be made promptly, in writing, to the Customs officer at the port of re-entry. The report shall state the time and place of arrival, and the nature and value of the repairs. Each
such locomotive or other piece of railroad equipment when withdrawn from international traffic shall be subject to duty upon the value of the repairs (other than “running repairs”), made abroad at the rate at which the repaired article would be dutiable if imported. For the appropriate determination as to whether the locomotive or other railroad equipment should be considered “domestic” or “foreign”, see § 123.12(d).
[T.D. 73-73, 38 FR 6991, Mar. 15, 1973]
§ 123.14
Entry of foreign-based trucks, busses, and taxicabs in international traffic.
(a)
Admission without entry or payment of duty.
Trucks, busses, and taxicabs, however owned, which have their principal base of operations in a foreign country and which are engaged in international traffic, arriving with merchandise or passengers destined to points in the United States, or arriving empty or loaded for the purpose of taking out merchandise or passengers, may be admitted without formal entry or the payment of duty. Such vehicles shall not engage in local traffic except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Deposit of registration by vehicle not on regular trip.
In any case in which a foreign-based truck, bus, or taxicab admitted under this section is not in use on a regularly scheduled trip, the port director may require that the registration card for the vehicle be deposited pending the return of the vehicle for departure to the country from which it arrived, or the port director may take other appropriate measures to assure the proper use and departure of the vehicle.
(c)
Use in local traffic.
Foreign-based trucks, busses, and taxicabs admitted under this section shall not engage in local traffic in the United States unless the vehicle comes within one of the following exceptions:
(1) The vehicle may carry merchandise or passengers between points in the United States if such carriage is incidental to the immediately prior or subsequent engagement of that vehicle in international traffic. Any such carriage by the vehicle in the general direction of an export move or as part of the return of the vehicle to its base country shall be considered incidental to its engagement in international traffic. An alien driver will not be permitted to operate a vehicle under this paragraph, unless the driver is in compliance with the applicable regulations of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
(2) A foreign-based truck trailer may carry merchandise between points in the United States on its departure for a foreign country under the same conditions as are prescribed for “other foreign railroad equipment” in § 123.12(a)(2).
(d)
Penalty for improper use.
The use of any vehicle referred to in this section in violation of this section may result in liabilities being incurred under section 592, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1592).
[T.D. 70-121, 35 FR 8215, May 26, 1970, as amended by T.D. 79-160, 44 FR 31956, June 4, 1979; T.D. 83-118, 48 FR 23385, May 25, 1983; T.D. 99-10, 64 FR 7504, Feb. 16, 1999]
§ 123.15
Vehicles of foreign origin used between communities of the United States and Canada or Mexico.
Vehicles of foreign origin which are used for commercial purposes between adjoining or neighboring communities of the United States and Canada or Mexico, such as delivery, peddlers', and service trucks, or wagons, are subject to duty on first arrival, but may thereafter be admitted without formal entry or the payment of duty so long as they are continuously employed in such service.
§ 123.16
Entry of returning trucks, busses, or taxicabs in international traffic.
(a)
Admission without entry or payment of duty.
Trucks, busses, and taxicabs, whether of foreign or domestic origin, taking out merchandise or passengers for hire or leaving empty for the purpose of bringing back merchandise or passengers for hire shall on their return to the United States be admitted without formal entry or the payment of duty upon their identity being established by State registration cards.
(b)
Use in local traffic.
Trucks, busses, and taxicabs in use in international
traffic, which may include the incidental carrying of merchandise or passengers for hire between points in a foreign country, or between points in this country, shall be admitted under this section. However, such vehicles taken abroad for commercial use between points in a foreign country, otherwise than in the course of their use in international traffic, shall be considered to have been exported and must be regularly entered on return.
[T.D. 70-121, 35 FR 8215, May 26, 1970, as amended by T.D. 99-10, 64 FR 7504, Feb. 16, 1999]
§ 123.17
Foreign repairs to domestic trucks, busses, taxicabs and their equipment.
(a)
Domestic trucks, busses, and taxicabs and their equipment defined.
For the purpose of this section, trucks, busses, and taxicabs and their equipment manufactured in, or regularly imported into the United States, shall be considered “domestic” if not subsequently formally entered and cleared through foreign customs into another country, nor used in foreign local traffic otherwise than as an incident of their return to the United States.
(b)
Report of arrival and payment of duty on repairs.
A report of the first arrival in the United States of domestic trucks, busses, and taxicabs and their equipment after repairs have been made in a foreign country, other than those required to restore such vehicle or equipment to the condition in which it last left the United States (“running repairs”), shall be made by the driver or person in charge of the vehicle promptly, in writing, to the Customs officer at the port of reentry. The report shall state the time and place of arrival and the nature and value of the repairs. Each such vehicle or its equipment when withdrawn from international traffic shall be subject to duty upon the value of the repairs (other than “running repairs”) made abroad at the rate at which the repaired article would be dutiable if imported.
§ 123.18
Equipment and materials for constructing bridges or tunnels between the United States and Canada or Mexico.
(a)
Admission of equipment and materials.
Equipment for use in construction of bridges or tunnels between the United States and Canada or Mexico shall be admitted without entry or the payment of duty. Materials for such use shall be admitted without entry or payment of duty only for installation in the bridge or tunnel proper, and not in the approaches on land at the United States end of such bridge or tunnel.
(b)
Customs supervision.
All articles admitted under paragraph (a) of this section shall be subject to Customs supervision at the expense of the builder until installed, entered, or exported.

# Subpart C—Shipments in Transit Through Canada or Mexico
§ 123.21
Merchandise in transit.
(a)
Status.
Merchandise may be transported from one port to another in the United States through Canada or Mexico in accordance with the regulations in this subpart or subparts E for trucks transiting Canada, F for commercial traveler's samples, or G for baggage. Merchandise so transported is not subject to treatment as an importation when returned to the United States, and no inward foreign manifest is required for merchandise returned under an in-transit manifest. In-transit merchandise returned to the United States shall be treated as an importation as are shipments made from Canada or Mexico if:
(1) An in-transit manifest is not furnished for the merchandise upon its return to the United States;
(2) The merchandise has been trans-shipped in foreign territory without Customs supervision when the transshipment required the breaking of Customs seals; or
(3) The Customs inspector finds any of the Customs seals applied to the conveyance or compartment unlocked or missing.
(b)
Use of certain vessels prohibited.
Merchandise shall not be transported from port to port in the United States through Canada or Mexico by vessel in violation of the provisions of section
27, Merchant Marine Act of 1920, as amended (46 U.S.C. 883), or section 588, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1588). (See § 4.80 of this chapter.)
(c)
Regulations applicable.
The provisions of this subpart shall govern all merchandise transported from one port to another in the United States through Canada or Mexico under in-transit procedures, except as otherwise provided in this subpart or in subpart E for truck shipments transiting Canada, subpart F for commercial traveler's samples transiting Canada, and subpart G for baggage transiting Canada or Mexico.
§ 123.22
In-transit manifest.
(a)
Manifest required.
A manifest in duplicate covering the in-transit merchandise which is to proceed under the provisions of this subpart shall be presented by the carrier to the Customs officer at each port of lading of a vessel, or at the port of exit of a vehicle. Where the merchandise is transported under Customs red in-bond seals and is accompanied by a transportation in-bond manifest, a separate in-transit manifest is not required.
(b)
Additional copies.
In the following cases additional copies of the manifest shall be presented:
(1) When the merchandise is to be transshipped in foreign territory under Customs supervision, a copy of the manifest for each place of transshipment shall be presented.
(2) When a Customs officer requests an extra copy of the manifest as a record of the transaction.
(c)
Manifest forms to be used.
The in-transit manifest forms to be used are:
(1) For trucks, railroad cars or other overland carriers transiting Mexico a manifest on Customs Form 7512-B or 7533-C shall be presented.
(2) For vessels of less than 5 net tons departing and arriving otherwise than by sea, a manifest on Customs Form 7512-B or 7533-C shall be presented. All other vessels are subject to the manifesting requirements contained in § 4.82 of this chapter.
(3) For rail cars transiting Canada, a manifest on Customs Form 7533-C (Canada A4-1/2) shall be presented. For trains which will remain intact while transiting Canadian territory, a consolidated train manifest containing all the information included in the individual car manifests and the train sheet required by § 123.23 may be used in lieu of individual car manifests. For a number of cars which will transit Canada as a group, a consolidated manifest may be used, but a train sheet shall also be presented.
(4) In all other cases where no in-transit manifest form is specified in this subpart, or in subpart E relating to truck shipments on the Canadian border, subpart F relating to commercial traveler's samples, and subpart G relating to baggage, Customs Form 7512-B or 7533-C shall be presented.
(d)
Contents of in-transit manifest.
The information contained in the manifest shall correspond to the information contained in the waybill accompanying the shipment, except that:
(1) The conveyance shall be identified in a suitable manner in the place provided for such identification.
(2) The description of ladings made up of several shipments which are to go forward in a conveyance or compartment sealed with Customs seals shall be “miscellaneous shipments.”
(3) When an in-transit rail shipment will enter and reenter Canada in a continuing movement en route to a final destination in the United States, only the final United States port of reentry shall be shown on the manifest.
[T.D. 70-121, 35 FR 8215, May 26, 1970, as amended by T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35478, Aug. 16, 1982]
§ 123.23
Train sheet for in-transit rail shipments.
Before an in-transit train proceeding under the provisions of this subpart departs from the United States, the carrier shall furnish to the customs officer at the port of exit a train sheet, sometimes called a consist, bridge sheet or trip sheet, listing each car of the train and specifically identifying the in-transit cars, unless a consolidated manifest containing this information has been presented for a train which will remain intact.
§ 123.24
Sealing of conveyances or compartments.
(a)
Sealing required.
Merchandise in transit proceeding under the provisions
of this subpart shall be transported in sealed conveyances or compartments, except that:
(1) Less than load or compartment lots may be forwarded in unsealed conveyances or compartments, without cording and sealing;
(2) The Commissioner of Customs may authorize treatment of full loads or lots in the same manner as less than load or compartment lots;
(3) Live animals identifiable by specific description in the manifest may be transported in the care of an attendant or customs inspector at the expense of the parties in interest, in unsealed conveyances or compartments.
(b)
Seals to be affixed.
The carrier shall affix blue in-transit seals to all openings of conveyances and compartments containing in-transit merchandise except that:
(1) Sealable carload shipments on the Canadian border shall be sealed with yellow in-transit seals.
(2) Conveyances or compartments sealed with U.S. Customs red in-bound seals may go forward without additional seals.
(c)
Carrier relieved of responsibility.
The port director may relieve the carrier of the responsibility of affixing in-transit seals by notification in writing that Customs inspectors will assume it.
§ 123.25
Certification and disposition of manifests.
(a)
Certification.
Conveyances proceeding under the provisions of this subpart shall not proceed until the Customs inspector has certified the in-transit manifest or verified its certification by the carrier. The port director may require the carrier to execute the certificate as an alternative to certification by the Customs officer. When the carrier is to execute the certificate, and the merchandise will be forwarded without being under Customs seals, the agent of the carrier shall carefully examine the packages covered by the manifests to satisfy himself that the merchandise agrees with the manifest as to quantity and description.
(b)
Disposition of manifest.
The original manifest, after certification, shall accompany the merchandise. Additional copies required when the merchandise is to be transshipped in Canada or Mexico under Customs supervision shall be given to the person in charge of the conveyance for delivery to the Customs officers who will supervise transshipment.
§ 123.26
Transshipment of merchandise moving through Canada or Mexico.
(a)
General.
Merchandise in transit proceeding under the provisions of this subpart may be transshipped from one conveyance to another in foreign territory. When transshipment requires the breaking of Customs seals, the breaking of the seals, transshipment and sealing of the conveyance or compartment to which the merchandise is transshipped shall be under the supervision of a Customs officer. He shall note his action on both the additional copy of the manifest presented to him, in accordance with § 123.25(b), and on the original copy, which shall be returned to the person in charge of the conveyance to accompany the merchandise. Merchandise transshipped in foreign territory without customs supervision when Customs seals were broken shall be treated upon return to the United States as imported merchandise.
(b)
Storage awaiting transshipment.
Merchandise moving under in-transit manifests and Customs seals which is to be stored in foreign territory awaiting transshipment shall be checked into a storehouse by the Customs officer at the place of transshipment. It shall remain under Customs locks and seals until transshipment is completed under Customs supervision.
(c)
Manifests where contents broken up.
When transshipment involves the breaking up of the in-transit contents of a conveyance or compartment, in such a manner as to require separate manifests for articles previously covered by a single manifest, the Customs officer supervising the transshipment shall take up the carrier's copy of the manifest and require the carrier to prepare a new manifest, in duplicate, for each conveyance to which the merchandise is transshipped. If there is to be further transshipment, an additional copy of each new manifest shall be presented by the carrier, and shall
be returned to the person in charge of the carrier for delivery to the Customs officer at the point of further transshipment in accordance with § 123.25(b). After the transshipment and sealing of the conveyances and compartments has been supervised and the new manifests certified the originals of the new manifests shall be returned to the carrier to accompany the merchandise to the point of reentry into the United States.
§ 123.27
Feeding and watering animals in Canada.
If animals in sealed conveyances or compartments cannot be fed and watered in Canada without breaking customs seals, the seals shall be broken and the animals fed and watered under the supervision of a United States or Canadian Customs officer. The supervising officer shall reseal the conveyance or compartment, and make notation as to the resealing on the manifest.
§ 123.28
Merchandise remaining in or exported to Canada or Mexico.
(a)
In-transit status abandoned.
When the in-transit status of merchandise transiting Canada or Mexico is abandoned and the merchandise is entered for consumption or other disposition in Canada or Mexico, the carrier must send the in-transit seals and manifests to the port where the manifests were first filed with CBP, or in the case of trucks under subpart E, the port of exit, with an endorsement by the carrier's agent on each manifest showing that the merchandise was so entered. The carriers must comply with the export control regulations, 15 CFR part 370.
(b)
In-transit merchandise exported to Canada or Mexico.
Merchandise to be exported to Canada or Mexico after moving in-transit through a contiguous country will be treated as exported when it has passed through the last port of exit from the United States. This paragraph will control whether or not the merchandise to be exported is domestic or foreign and whether or not it is exported with benefit of drawback. The manifest, Electronic Export Information (EEI) filing citations, exclusions, and/or exemption legends, and the notice of exportation, if any, must be filed at the last port of exit from the United States.
[T.D. 70-121, 35 FR 8215, May 26, 1970, as amended by CBP Dec. 17-06, 82 FR 32239, July 13, 2017]
§ 123.29
Procedure on arrival at port of reentry.
(a)
Presentation of documents.
At the first port in the United States after transportation through Canada or Mexico under the provisions of this subpart, the carrier shall present to Customs the in-transit manifest or manifests for each loaded conveyance. For mixed ladings, that is, ladings made up of several shipments, the waybills shall be available at the port of return or discharge for use by Customs officers. For a railroad train for which a consolidated manifest was not used the conductor shall also present a train sheet showing the car numbers and initials.
(b)
Vessels and rail shipments continuing in-transit movement
—(1)
Vessels.
In the case of a vessel carrying in-transit merchandise, the master's copies of the in-transit or in-bond manifest covering the merchandise given final Customs release at that port shall be retained by Customs at that port and the manifests covering merchandise to be discharged at subsequent ports of arrival shall be returned to the master of the vessel for presentation to Customs at the next port.
(2)
Rail shipments.
An in-transit rail shipment arriving at an intermediate port of reentry or exit intended for further in-transit movement through Canada may be permitted to go forward under the accompanying in-transit manifest after verification by Customs that the manifest satisfactorily identifies the shipment.
(c)
Checking and breaking of seals
—(1)
Checking seals.
The Customs officer at the port of arrival shall check customs seals applied to the conveyance or compartment for unlocked or missing seals. Where the seals are unlocked or missing, the merchandise shall be treated as having been imported from the transited country.
(2)
Breaking seals.
In-bond seals shall be broken only by a Customs officer or by a person acting under the direction of a Customs officer. In-transit seals
may be broken by any carrier's employee, or by a consignee at any time or place after the merchandise under such seals has been released by Customs.
(d)
Proper manifest.
In-transit merchandise shall not be released until proper in-transit manifests are received except that it may be treated as imported merchandise.
(e)
Substitution of merchandise.
Any instance of substitution of merchandise shall be reported to the Commissioner of Customs, and the merchandise shall be detained.

# Subpart D—Shipments in Transit Through the United States
§ 123.31
Merchandise in transit.
(a)
From one contiguous country to another.
Merchandise may be transported in transit across the United States between Canada and Mexico under the procedures set forth in part 18 of this chapter for merchandise entered for transportation and exportation.
(b)
From one point in a contiguous country to another through the United States.
Merchandise may be transported from point to point in Canada or in Mexico through the United States in bond in accordance with the procedures set forth in §§ 18.1 and 18.20 through 18.24 of this chapter except where those procedures are modified by this subpart or subparts E for trucks transiting the United States, F for commercial traveler's samples, or G for baggage.
[T.D. 70-121, 35 FR 8215, May 26, 1970, as amended by CBP Dec. 17-13, 82 FR 45405, Sept. 28, 2017]
§ 123.32
In-bond application.
An in-bond application must be submitted pursuant to part 18 of this chapter upon arrival of merchandise which is to proceed under the provisions of this subpart.
[CBP Dec. 17-13, 82 FR 45405, Sept. 28, 2017]
§§ 123.33-123.34
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—United States and Canada In-Transit Truck Procedures
§ 123.41
Truck shipments transiting Canada.
(a)
Manifest required.
Trucks with merchandise transiting Canada from point to point in the United States will be manifested on United States-Canada Transit Manifest, Customs Form 7512-B Canada 8
1/2
. The driver shall present the manifest in four copies to U.S. Customs at the United States port of departure for review and validation.
(b)
Procedure at United States port of departure.
The Customs officer receiving the manifest shall validate it by stamping each copy in the lower right hand corner to show the port name and date and by initialing each copy. All copies of the validated manifest then will be returned to the driver for presentation to Canadian Customs at the Canadian port of entry.
(c)
Procedure at Canadian ports of arrival and exit.
Truck shipments transiting Canada shall comply with Canadian Customs regulations. These procedures generally are as follows:
(1)
Canadian port of arrival.
The driver shall present a validated United States-Canada Transit Manifest Customs Form 7512-B Canada 8
1/2
, in four copies to the Canadian Customs officer, who shall review the manifest for accuracy and verify its validation by U.S. Customs. If the manifest is found not to be properly validated, the truck shall be required to be returned to the United States port of departure so that the manifest may be validated. If the manifest is validated properly and no irregularity is found, the truck will be sealed unless sealing is waived by Canadian Customs. The original manifest will be retained by Canadian Customs at the port of arrival, and the three copies will be returned to the driver for presentation to Canadian Customs at the Canadian port of exit.
(2)
Canadian port of exit.
The driver shall present the three copies of the validated manifest to the Canadian Customs officer at the Canadian port of exit for certification. That officer shall verify that the seals are intact if the
vehicle has been sealed or, if sealing has been waived, that there are no irregularities. After verification and certification of the manifest, two certified copies will be returned to the driver (one to be presented to U.S. Customs at the United States port of reentry, the other for the carrier's records), and the truck will be allowed to proceed to the United States.
(d)
Procedure at United States port of reentry.
The driver of a truck reentering the United States after transiting Canada shall present a certified copy of the United States-Canada Transit Manifest, Customs Form 7512-B Canada 8
1/2
, to the U.S. Customs officer. If this copy of the manifest does not bear the certification of a Canadian Customs officer at the Canadian port of exit, the driver will be allowed to return to that port to have it certified. The driver will be allowed to break any seals affixed by Canadian Customs upon presentation of a certified manifest. If sealing has been waived, the U.S. Customs officer shall satisfy himself that the truck contains only that merchandise covered by the manifest which moved on the truck from the United States through Canada.
(e)
Proof of exportation from Canada.
The certified copy of the manifest returned to the driver by Canadian Customs at the Canadian port of exit will serve as proof of exportation of the shipment from Canada.
[T.D. 81-85, 46 FR 21990, Apr. 15, 1981]
§ 123.42
Truck shipments transiting the United States.
(a)
Manifest required.
Trucks with merchandise transiting the United States from point to point in Canada will be manifested on United States-Canada Transit Manifest, Customs Form 7512-B Canada 8
1/2
. The driver, in accordance with Canadian Customs regulations, shall present the manifest in four copies to Canadian Customs at the Canadian port of departure for review and validation.
(b)
Procedure at Canadian port of departure.
The Customs officer receiving the manifest shall validate it by stamping each copy in the lower right hand corner to show the port name and date and by initialing each copy. All copies of the validated manifest then will be returned to the driver for presentation to U.S. Customs at the United States port of entry.
(c)
Procedure at U.S. port of arrival
—(1)
Filing of in-bond application.
An in-bond application must be filed pursuant to § 18.1 of this chapter prior to or upon arrival at a U.S. port. At CBP's discretion the driver may be required to present four validated copies of the United States-Canada Transit Manifest, CBP Form 7512-B Canada 8
1/2
, to the CBP officer, who will review the manifest for accuracy and verify its validation by Canadian Customs. If the manifest is found not to be validated properly, the truck will be required to be returned to the Canadian port of departure so that the manifest may be validated in accordance with Canadian Customs regulations. If the manifest is validated properly and no irregularity is found, the truck will be sealed unless sealing is waived by CBP. The CBP officer will note in the in-bond record and, if paper, on the manifest, the seal numbers or the waiver of sealing, retain the original, and return three copies of the manifest to the driver for presentation to CBP at the U.S. port of exportation.
(2)
Sealing or waiver of sealing.
Trucks transiting the United States will be sealed with red in-bond seals at the United States port of arrival unless sealing is waived in accordance with § 18.4 of this chapter. If a truck cannot be sealed effectively and sealing is deemed necessary to protect the revenue or to prevent violation of the Customs laws or regulations, the truck will not be permitted to transit the United States under bond.
(d)
Procedure at U.S. port of exportation.
The arrival of the in-bond shipment at the port of exportation must be reported to CBP in accordance with § 18.1 of this chapter.
(1) If the seals are intact, they will be left unbroken unless there is indication that the contents should be verified.
(2) If the seals have been broken, or there is other indication that the contents should be verified, all merchandise will be required to be unladen and a detailed inventory made against the waybills.
If sealing has been waived, the Customs officer shall verify the goods against
the accompanying waybills in sufficient detail to detect any irregularity.
(e)
Procedure at Canadian port of reentry.
The driver of a truck reentering Canada after transiting the United States shall present a certified copy of the United States-Canada Transit Manifest, Customs Forms 7512-B Canada 8
1/2
, to the Canadian Customs officer. If this copy of the manifest does not bear the certification of a U.S. Customs officer at the United States port of exit, the driver will be allowed to return to that port to have it certified.
(f)
Proof of exportation from United States.
The certified copy of the manifest returned to the driver by the U.S. Customs officer at the U.S. port of exit will serve as proof of exportation of the shipment from the U.S.
(g)
Forwarding procedure.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, merchandise transported in trucks shall be forwarded in accordance with the general provisions for transportation in bond (§§ 18.1-18.8 of this chapter).
[T.D. 81-85, 46 FR 21991, Apr. 15, 1981, as amended by T.D. 84-212, 49 FR 39047, Oct. 3, 1984; T.D. 00-22, 65 FR 16518, Mar. 29, 2000; CBP Dec. 17-13, 82 FR 45405, Sept. 28, 2017]

# Subpart F—Commercial Traveler's Samples in Transit Through the United States or Canada
§ 123.51
Commercial samples transported by automobile through Canada between ports in the United States.
(a)
General provisions.
A commercial traveler arriving at a U.S. frontier port desiring to transport his commercial samples by automobile through Canada to another place in the United States without displaying the samples in Canada may request a U.S. Customs officer at the port of departure to cord and seal the outer containers of the samples if they can be effectively corded and sealed.
(b)
List of samples.
The traveler shall furnish the U.S. Customs officer at the port of exit a list, in duplicate, of all the articles in the containers, with their approximate values, in substantially the following form:

# Samples Carried in Transit Through Canada in Private Vehicle
(U.S. port of exit printed here) (Date)
I have checked the quantity and values of the below-listed articles carried by ____________________(Name and address of traveler) and owned by ____________________(Name and address of firm or company)
These articles are contained in ________ (Number) packages which have been corded and sealed for in-transit movement through Canada to ________ (U.S. port of reentry) in ________ (Year, make and license number of vehicle)
(U.S. Customs Inspector)
Description of merchandise Value
When the traveler arrives at Customs with lists already prepared, the form may be inscribed “as per list attached.”
(c)
Checking, cording, and sealing by U.S. Customs officers.
The Customs officer shall check the list with the articles and satisfy himself that the values shown are approximately correct. The Customs officer will cord and seal the containers with yellow in-transit seals. The traveler may be required to assist the Customs officer in the cording and sealing. The original of the list, signed by the Customs officer over his title and showing that the articles on the list have been checked by the officer against those in the containers shall be returned to the traveler for submission by him to Canadian customs upon his arrival in Canada.
(d)
In-transit manifest.
The traveler shall execute and file Customs Form 7512-B or 7533-C, in the original only, at the U.S. port of departure, as an in-transit manifest covering the movement of the samples to the U.S. port through which the traveler will return. Descriptions, quantities, and values may be shown thereon by noting “Commercial Samples” and the number of corded and sealed containers. The manifest shall be returned to the traveler to accompany the samples after being signed and dated by the Customs officer.
(e)
Presentation of in-transit manifest at U.S. port of reentry.
Upon return to
the United States, the traveler shall present Customs Form 7512-B or 7533-C and the corded and sealed samples to the U.S. Customs officer at the port where the samples are returned to this country. The Customs officer shall verify that there has been no irregularity.
[T.D. 70-121, 35 FR 8215, May 26, 1970, as amended by T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35478, Aug. 16, 1982]
§ 123.52
Commercial samples transported by automobile through the United States between ports in Canada.
(a)
General provisions.
A commercial traveler arriving from Canada may be permitted to transport effectively corded and sealed samples in his automobile without further sealing in the United States, upon compliance with this section and subject to the conditions of § 18.20(d) of this chapter, since customs bonded carriers as described in § 18.2 of this chapter are not considered to be reasonably available. Samples having a total value of not more than $200 may be carried by a nonresident commercial traveler through the United States without cording and sealing and without an in-transit manifest in accordance with § 148.41 of this chapter.
(b)
Presentation of sample list at Canadian port of exit.
A commercial traveler arriving from Canada desiring to transport without display in the United States commercial samples in his automobile through the United States to another port in Canada, may present his samples to a Canadian Customs officer at the Canadian port of exit. The traveler will be required to furnish the Canadian Customs officer a list in duplicate of all articles presented showing their approximate values. The list shall bear the traveler's name and address, and the name and address of the firm represented.
(c)
Checking, cording, and sealing by Canadian Customs officers.
The Canadian Customs officer will examine the articles, identify them with the list, and satisfy himself that the values shown are approximately correct. The Canadian Customs officer will cord and seal the outer containers with uncolored in-transit seals and authenticate the list of samples with his signature and title. Cording and sealing may be waived with the concurrence of the United States and Canadian Customs officers.
(d)
Treatment at U.S. port of arrival.
The list of samples properly authenticated shall be submitted upon arrival to the U.S. Customs officer at the port of arrival. After ascertaining that the samples are effectively corded and sealed, or that sealing has been waived, notation of the number of corded and sealed containers, or of the waiver shall be made on the list of samples and the list shall be retained by the Customs officer as a record of the shipment.
(e)
In-transit manifest.
Movement of the samples from the port of arrival to the port of exit from the United States under this procedure shall be under an in-transit manifest on Customs Form 7512 executed and filed in triplicate by the traveler at the port of arrival in the United States. Descriptions, quantities, and values may be shown thereon by noting “Commercial Samples,” the number of corded and sealed containers, and the approximate total value of the samples. When cording and sealing has been waived with the concurrence of a Canadian Customs officer, samples must be identified on the manifest by suitable itemized descriptions and approximate values, or by attaching to the manifest a copy of the list of samples which has been initialed by the Customs officer.
(f)
Presentation of samples and manifest at U.S. port of exit.
The manifest on Customs Form 7512 shall be presented to the Customs officer at the U.S. port of exit, together with the samples covered. If the seals are broken or cording and sealing has been waived, the Customs officer shall verify that there are no irregularities.
[T.D. 70-121, 35 FR 8215, May 26, 1970, as amended by T.D. 73-27, 38 FR 2449, Jan. 26, 1973; T.D. 87-75, 52 FR 20068, May 29, 1987; CBP Dec. 17-13, 82 FR 45405, Sept. 28, 2017]

# Subpart G—Baggage
§ 123.61
Baggage arriving in baggage car.
An inward foreign manifest on Customs Form 7533 shall be used for all baggage arriving in baggage cars.
[T.D. 70-121, 35 FR 8215, May 26, 1970, as amended by T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35478, Aug. 16, 1982]
§ 123.62
Baggage in possession of traveler.
For baggage arriving in the actual possession of a traveler, his declaration shall be accepted in lieu of an inward foreign manifest. (See § 123.3.)
[T.D. 70-121, 35 FR 8215, May 26, 1970, as amended by T.D. 73-72, 38 FR 2449, Jan. 26, 1973]
§ 123.63
Examination of baggage from Canada or Mexico.
(a)
Opening vehicle or compartment to examine baggage.
Customs officers are authorized to unlock, open, and examine vehicles and compartments thereof for the purposes of examining baggage under sections 461, 462, 496, 581(a) and 582, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1461, 1462, 1496, 1581(a), and 1582) and 19 U.S.C. 482. However, to the extent practical, the Customs officer should ask the owner or operator to unlock such vehicle or compartment first. Where the owner or operator is unavailable or refuses to unlock the vehicle or compartment or where it is not practical to ask the owner or operator to unlock the same, it shall be opened by the Customs officer. If any article is subject to duty, or any prohibited article is found upon opening by the Customs officer, the whole contents and the vehicle shall be subject to forfeiture pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 1462.
(b)
Inspection of baggage.
A Customs officer has the right to inspect all merchandise and baggage brought into the United States from contiguous countries under 19 U.S.C. 1461. He also has the right, under the same statute, to require that owners of such baggage open it or furnish keys for doing so. Where the owner or agent is unavailable or refuses to open the baggage or furnish keys or where it is not practical to ask the owner or agent to open or furnish keys to the same, it shall be opened by the Customs officer. If any article is subject to duty, or any prohibited article is found upon opening by the Customs officer, the baggage shall be subject to forfeiture pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 1462.
[T.D. 95-86, 60 FR 54188, Oct. 20, 1995]
§ 123.64
Baggage in transit through the United States between ports in Canada or in Mexico.
(a)
Procedure.
Baggage in transit from point to point in Canada or Mexico through the United States may be transported in-bond through the United States in accordance with the procedures set forth in §§ 18.1, 18.13, 18.14, and 18.20 through 18.24 of this chapter except where those procedures are modified by this section.
(b)
In-transit manifest.
Three copies of the manifest on Customs Form 7512 shall be required. One copy of the Form 7512 shall be delivered to the person in charge of the carrier to accompany the baggage and shall be delivered by the carrier to the Customs officer at the port of departure from the United States.
(c)
Consolidated train manifest.
When the route is such that a train carrying baggage in bond will remain intact while proceeding through the United States, a consolidated train manifest containing the same information as is required on individual manifests may be used in lieu of individual manifest on Customs Form 7512.
(d)
Baggage cards
—(1)
Baggage arriving from Mexico.
For baggage arriving at a port on the Mexican border for in-transit movement through the United States in bond and return to Mexico, the in-transit baggage card described in § 18.14 of this chapter shall be used.
(2)
Baggage arriving from Canada.
For baggage arriving at a port on the Canadian border for in-transit movement through the United States in bond and return to Canada, the joint United States-Canada in-transit baggage card, Customs Form 7512-B (Canada 8
1/2
) or Customs Form 7533-C (Canada A4-
1/2
), shall be used. The baggage card will be filled out and securely attached to the baggage and the attachment verified by a Canadian Customs officer before the baggage leaves Canada. If the joint in-transit baggage card is found to be
improperly prepared or attached upon arrival of the baggage in the United States for movement in bond, the carrier may be required to furnish the baggage card described in § 18.14 of this chapter for attachment to the baggage before being allowed to proceed. At the port of exit from the United States the joint in-transit baggage card shall be allowed to remain on the baggage.
[T.D. 70-121, 35 FR 8215, May 26, 1970, as amended by T.D. 71-70, 36 FR 4491, Mar. 6, 1971; T.D. 84-212, 49 FR 39047, Oct. 3, 1984; T.D. 87-75, 52 FR 20068, May 29, 1987; T.D. 00-22, 65 FR 16518, Mar. 29, 2000; CBP Dec. 17-13, 82 FR 45405, Sept. 28, 2017]
§ 123.65
Domestic baggage transiting Canada or Mexico between ports in the United States.
(a)
General provision.
Upon request of the carrier, checked baggage of domestic origin may be transported from one port in the United States to another through Canada or through Mexico in accord with the procedure set forth in this section. The provisions of this section shall not apply to domestic hand baggage crossing Canada or Mexico which, upon reentry into the United States, shall be examined in the same manner as baggage of foreign origin.
(b)
Special in-transit tag manifest.
The carrier shall complete and attach to each piece of baggage by wire or cord under Customs supervision a special in-transit tag manifest furnished by the carrier as follows:
(1)
Baggage transiting Mexico.
For baggage of domestic origin to be transported through Mexico between ports of the United States, the special in-transit tag manifest attached to each piece of baggage shall be on white cardboard not less than 2
1/2
× 4
1/2
inches in size printed in substantially the following form:

# United States Customs

# in-transit baggage manifest
Carrier's Baggageman: Destroy this tag if owner has access to baggage before its return to United States.
Check No. ____.
This baggage is in transit from ____________________ (Port of exit) through foreign territory to ____________________ (Port of reentry) in the United States.
This baggage was laden for transportation as above stated.
Date ________
(U.S. Customs Officer)
(2)
Baggage transiting Canada.
For baggage of domestic origin to be transported through Canada between ports in the United States, the joint United States-Canada in-transit baggage card, Customs Form 7512-B (Canada 8
1/2
) or Customs Form 7533-C (Canada A4-
1/2
), shall be used as the special in-transit tag manifest attached to each piece of baggage.
(c)
Removal of special in-transit tag manifest.
The special in-transit tag manifest shall be removed only by the Customs officers at the final port of reentry into the United States. If the officer finds the special in-transit tag manifest missing or not intact, or for any other reason believes that the baggage has been tampered with while outside the United States, he shall detain it for examination. Otherwise, baggage transported under the procedure in this section may be passed without examination.
(d)
Procedure in lieu of special in-transit tag manifest.
In lieu of attaching the special in-transit tag manifest to each piece of baggage as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, baggage of domestic origin may be forwarded in a car or compartment sealed with in-transit seals and manifested as in the case of other merchandise in transit through Canada or Mexico, as provided in subpart C of this part.
[T.D. 70-121, 35 FR 8215, May 26, 1970, as amended by T.D. 87-75, 52 FR 20068, May 29, 1987]
Subpart H [Reserved]

# Subpart I—Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 123.81
Merchandise found in building on the boundary.
When any merchandise on which the duty has not been paid or which was imported contrary to law is found in any building upon or within 10 feet of the boundary line between the United States and Canada or Mexico, such merchandise shall be seized and a report of the facts shall be made to the Commissioner. With his approval the
building or that portion thereof which is within the United States shall be taken down or removed. The provisions of subpart B of part 162, of this chapter shall be applicable to the search of any such building.
[T.D. 70-121, 35 FR 8215, May 26, 1970, as amended by T.D. 72-211, 37 FR 16487, Aug. 15, 1972. Redesignated by T.D. 99-2, 64 FR 31, Jan. 4, 1999]
§ 123.82
Treatment of stolen vehicles returned from Mexico.
Port directors shall admit without entry and payment of duty allegedly stolen or embezzled vehicles, trailers, airplanes, or component parts of any of them, under the provisions of The Convention between the United States of America and the United Mexican States for the Recovery and Return of Stolen or Embezzled Vehicles and Aircraft (Treaties and Other International Acts Series [TIAS] 10653), of June 28, 1983, if accompanied by a letter from the U.S. Embassy in Mexico City containing:
(a) A statement that the Embassy is satisfied from information furnished it that the property is stolen property being returned to the U.S. under the provisions of the convention between the U.S. and Mexico concluded January 15, 1981, and
(b) An adequate description of the property for identification purposes.
[T.D. 86-118, 51 FR 22515, June 20, 1986. Redesignated by T.D. 99-2, 64 FR 31, Jan. 4, 1999]

# Subpart J—Advance Information for Cargo Arriving by Rail or Truck

# Source:
CBP Dec. 03-32, 68 FR 68173, Dec. 5, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 123.91
Electronic information for rail cargo required in advance of arrival.
(a)
General requirement.
Pursuant to section 343(a), Trade Act of 2002, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2071 note), for any train requiring a train sheet under § 123.6, that will have commercial cargo aboard, Customs and Border Protection (CBP) must electronically receive from the rail carrier certain information concerning the incoming cargo, as enumerated in paragraph (d) of this section, no later than 2 hours prior to the cargo reaching the first port of arrival in the United States. Specifically, to effect the advance electronic transmission of the required rail cargo information to CBP, the rail carrier must use a CBP-approved electronic data interchange system.
(1)
Through cargo in transit to a foreign country.
Cargo arriving by train for transportation in transit across the United States from one foreign country to another; and cargo arriving by train for transportation through the United States from point to point in the same foreign country are subject to the advance electronic information filing requirement for incoming cargo under paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
Cargo under bond.
Cargo that is to be unladed from the arriving train and entered, in bond, for exportation, or for transportation and exportation, in another vehicle or conveyance is also subject to the advance electronic information filing requirement under paragraph (a) of this section.
(b)
Exception; cargo in transit from point to point in the United States.
Domestic cargo transported by train to one port from another in the United States by way of Canada or Mexico is not subject to the advance electronic information filing requirement for incoming cargo under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Incoming rail carrier
—(1)
Receipt of data; acceptance of cargo.
As a pre-requisite to accepting the cargo, the carrier must receive, from the foreign shipper and owner of the cargo or from a freight forwarder, as applicable, any necessary cargo shipment information, as listed in paragraph (d) of this section, for electronic transmission to CBP.
(2)
Accuracy of information received by rail carrier.
Where the rail carrier electronically presenting the cargo information required in paragraph (d) of this section receives any of this information from another party, CBP will take into consideration how, in accordance with ordinary commercial practices, the rail carrier acquired such information, and whether and how the
carrier is able to verify this information. Where the rail carrier is not reasonably able to verify such information, CBP will permit the carrier to electronically present the information on the basis of what the carrier reasonably believes to be true.
(d)
Cargo information required.
The rail carrier must electronically transmit to CBP the following information for all required incoming cargo that will arrive in the United States by train:
(1) The rail carrier identification SCAC code (the unique Standard Carrier Alpha Code assigned for each carrier by the National Motor Freight Traffic Association; see § 4.7a(c)(2)(iii) of this chapter);
(2) The carrier-assigned conveyance name, equipment number and trip number;
(3) The scheduled date and time of arrival of the train at the first port of entry in the United States;
(4) The numbers and quantities of the cargo laden aboard the train as contained in the carrier's bill of lading, either master or house, as applicable (this means the quantity of the lowest external packaging unit; containers and pallets do not constitute acceptable information; for example, a container holding 10 pallets with 200 cartons should be described as 200 cartons);
(5) A precise cargo description (or the Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS) number(s) to the 6-digit level under which the cargo is classified if that information is received from the shipper) and weight of the cargo; or, for a sealed container, the shipper's declared description and weight of the cargo (generic descriptions, specifically those such as “FAK” (“freight of all kinds”), “general cargo,” and “STC” (“said to contain”) are not acceptable);
(6) The shipper's complete name and address, or identification number, from the bill(s) of lading (for each house bill in a consolidated shipment, the identity of the foreign vendor, supplier, manufacturer, or other similar party is acceptable (and the address of the foreign vendor, etc., must be a foreign address); by contrast, the identity of the carrier, freight forwarder, consolidator, or broker, is not acceptable; the identification number will be a unique number to be assigned by CBP upon the implementation of the Automated Commercial Environment);
(7) The complete name and address of the consignee, or identification number, from the bill(s) of lading (The consignee is the party to whom the cargo will be delivered in the United States. However, in the case of cargo shipped “to order of [a named party],” the carrier must identify this named “to order” party as the consignee; and, if there is any other commercial party listed in the bill of lading for delivery or contact purposes, the carrier must also report this other commercial party's identity and contact information (address) in the “Notify Party” field of the advance electronic data transmission to CBP, to the extent that the CBP-approved electronic data interchange system is capable of receiving this data. The identification number will be a unique number assigned by CBP upon implementation of the Automated Commercial Environment);
(8) The place where the rail carrier takes possession of the cargo shipment;
(9) Internationally recognized hazardous material code when such materials are being shipped by rail;
(10) Container numbers (for containerized shipments) or the rail car numbers; and
(11) The seal numbers for all seals affixed to containers and/or rail cars to the extent that CBP's data system can accept this information (for example, if a container has more than two seals, and only two seal numbers can be accepted through the system per container, the carrier's electronic presentation of two of these seal numbers for the container would be considered as constituting full compliance with this data element).
[CBP Dec. 03-32, 68 FR 68173, Dec. 5, 2003, as amended at CBP Dec. 09-39, 74 FR 52677, Oct. 14, 2009]
§ 123.92
Electronic information for truck cargo required in advance of arrival.
(a)
General requirement.
Pursuant to section 343(a) of the Trade Act of 2002, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2071 note), for any truck required to report its arrival
under § 123.1(b), that will have commercial cargo aboard, Customs and Border Protection (CBP) must electronically receive from the party described in paragraph (c) of this section certain information concerning the cargo, as enumerated in paragraph (d) of this section. The CBP must receive such cargo information by means of a CBP-approved electronic data interchange system no later than either 30 minutes or 1 hour prior to the carrier's reaching the first port of arrival in the United States, or such lesser time as authorized, based upon the CBP-approved system employed to present the information.
(1)
Through cargo in transit to a foreign country.
Cargo arriving by truck in transit through the United States from one foreign country to another (§ 123.31(a)); and cargo arriving by truck for transportation through the United States from one point to another in the same foreign country (§ 123.31(b); § 123.42) are subject to the advance electronic information filing requirement in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
Cargo entered under bond.
Cargo that is to be unladed from the arriving truck and entered, in bond, for exportation, or for transportation and exportation, in another vehicle or conveyance are also subject to the advance electronic information filing requirement in paragraph (a) of this section.
(b)
Exceptions from advance reporting requirements
—(1)
Cargo in transit from point to point in the United States.
Domestic cargo transported by truck and arriving at one port from another in the United States after transiting Canada or Mexico (§ 123.21; § 123.41) is exempt from the advance electronic filing requirement for incoming cargo under paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
Certain informal entries.
The following merchandise is exempt from the advance cargo information reporting requirements under paragraph (a) of this section, to the extent that such merchandise qualifies for informal entry pursuant to part 143, subpart C, of this chapter:
(i) Merchandise which may be informally entered on CBP Form 368 or 368A (cash collection or receipt);
(ii) Merchandise unconditionally or conditionally free, not exceeding $2,500 in value, eligible for entry on CBP Form 7523; and
(iii) Products of the United States being returned, for which entry is prescribed on CBP Form 3311, or its electronic equivalent.
(c)
Carrier; and importer or broker
—(1)
Single party presentation.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the incoming truck carrier must present all required information to CBP in the time and manner prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
Dual party presentation.
The United States importer, or its customs broker, may elect to present to CBP a portion of the required information that it possesses in relation to the cargo. Where the broker, or the importer (see § 113.62(k)(2) of this chapter), elects to submit such data, the carrier is responsible for presenting to CBP the remainder of the information specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(3)
Party receiving information believed to be accurate.
Where the party electronically presenting the cargo information required in paragraph (d) of this section receives any of this information from another party, CBP will take into consideration how, in accordance with ordinary commercial practices, the presenting party acquired such information, and whether and how the presenting party is able to verify this information. Where the presenting party is not reasonably able to verify such information, CBP will permit the party to electronically present the information on the basis of what the party reasonably believes to be true.
(d)
Cargo information required.
The following commodity and transportation information, as applicable, must be electronically transmitted to and received by CBP for all required incoming cargo arriving in the United States by truck, to the extent that the particular CBP-approved electronic data interchange system employed can accept this information:
(1) Conveyance number, and (if applicable) equipment number (the number of the conveyance is its Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) or its license plate number and state of issuance; the equipment number, if applicable, refers to the identification number of any
trailing equipment or container attached to the power unit);
(2) Carrier identification (this is the truck carrier identification SCAC code (the unique Standard Carrier Alpha Code) assigned for each carrier by the National Motor Freight Traffic Association; see § 4.7a(c)(2)(iii) of this chapter);
(3) Trip number and, if applicable, the transportation reference number for each shipment (the transportation reference number is the freight bill number, or Pro Number, if such a number has been generated by the carrier);
(4) Container number(s) (for any containerized shipment) (if different from the equipment number), and the seal numbers for all seals affixed to the equipment or container(s);
(5) The foreign location where the truck carrier takes possession of the cargo destined for the United States;
(6) The scheduled date and time of arrival of the truck at the first port of entry in the United States;
(7) The numbers and quantities for the cargo laden aboard the truck as contained in the bill(s) of lading (this means the quantity of the lowest external packaging unit; containers and pallets do not constitute acceptable information; for example, a container holding 10 pallets with 200 cartons should be described as 200 cartons);
(8) The weight of the cargo, or, for a sealed container, the shipper's declared weight of the cargo;
(9) A precise description of the cargo or the Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS) numbers to the 6-digit level under which the cargo will be classified (generic descriptions, specifically those such as FAK (“freight of all kinds”), “general cargo,” and “STC” (“said to contain”) are not acceptable);
(10) Internationally recognized hazardous material code when such cargo is being shipped by truck;
(11) The shipper's complete name and address, or identification number, from the bill(s) of lading (for each house bill in a consolidated shipment, the identity of the foreign vendor, supplier, manufacturer, or other similar party is acceptable (and the address of the foreign vendor, etc., must be a foreign address); by contrast, the identity of the carrier, freight forwarder, consolidator, or broker, is not acceptable; the identification number will be a unique number to be assigned by CBP upon the implementation of the Automated Commercial Environment); and
(12) The complete name and address of the consignee, or identification number, from the bill(s) of lading (the consignee is the party to whom the cargo will be delivered in the United States, with the exception of “FROB” (Foreign Cargo Remaining On Board); the identification number will be a unique number assigned by CBP upon implementation of the Automated Commercial Environment).
[CBP Dec. 03-32, 68 FR 68173, Dec. 5, 2003, as amended at CBP Dec. 08-46, 73 FR 71782, Nov. 25, 2008; CBP Dec. 09-39, 74 FR 52677, Oct. 14, 2009; CBP Dec. 12-19, 77 FR 72719, Dec. 6, 2012; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61287, Oct. 13, 2015]
Pt. 125

# PART 125—CARTAGE AND LIGHTERAGE OF MERCHANDISE
Sec.
125.0
Scope.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
125.1
Classes of cartage.
125.2
Supervision of cartage and lighterage.
125.3
Contracts for Government cartage.

# Subpart B—Cartage of Packages for Examination
125.11
Cartage for examination in public stores.
125.12
Cartage for examination at importers' premises or other place.
125.13
Cartage of merchandise withdrawn from general order for regular entry.
125.14
Cartage of unclaimed merchandise.

# Subpart C—Importers' Cartage
125.21
Cartage other than for examination.
125.22
Designation of cartman or lighterman, or other bonded carrier.
125.23
Failure to designate.
125.24
Failure of designated cartman, lighterman or other bonded carrier to appear.

# Subpart D—Delivery and Receipt
125.31
Documents used.
125.32
Merchandise delivered to a bonded store or bonded warehouse.
125.33
Procedure on receiving merchandise.
125.34
Countersigning of documents and notation of bad order or discrepancy.
125.35
Report of loss, detention, or accident.
125.36
Inability to deliver merchandise.

# Subpart E—Liability
125.41
Liability for cartage.
125.42
Cancellation of liability.

# Authority:
19 U.S.C. 66, 1565, and 1624.
Section 125.31, also issued under 5 U.S.C. 301; 19 U.S.C. 1311, 1312, 1484, 1555, 1556, 1557, 1623, and 1646a.
Section 125.32 also issued under 5 U.S.C. 301; 19 U.S.C. 1484.
Section 125.33 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1311, 1312, 1555, 1556, 1557, 1623, and 1646a.
Sections 125.41 and 125.42 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1623.

# Source:
T.D. 73-140, 38 FR 13554, May 23, 1973, unless otherwise noted.
§ 125.0
Scope.
This part is concerned with cartage and lighterage of merchandise and the duties and liabilities of cartmen and lightermen, as well as those parties authorized in § 112.2(b) to engage in cartage. Provisions for licensing cartmen and lightermen are in part 112 of this chapter.
[T.D. 94-81, 59 FR 51495, Oct. 12, 1994]

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 125.1
Classes of cartage.
(a)
Government cartage.
Government cartage must be done by a licensed customhouse cartman or other bonded carrier as provided in § 112.2 of this chapter under contract or other specific authority for that purpose (except as provided for in § 125.12). All government cartage must be contracted for using the procedures specified in § 125.3.
(b)
Importers' cartage.
Importers' cartage may be done by any licensed customhouse cartman or other bonded carrier as provided in § 112.2 of this chapter.
[T.D. 94-81, 59 FR 51495, Oct. 12, 1994]
§ 125.2
Supervision of cartage and lighterage.
All licensed vehicles or lighters shall be subject to the control and direction of the officer having charge of the merchandise being carried.
§ 125.3
Contracts for Government cartage.
Contracts for Government cartage shall be procured by formally advertised solicitation for bids and award of contract or by negotiation in accordance with the appropriate provisions of the Federal Procurement Regulations, as supplemented by the special procurement requirements of the U.S. Customs Service.

# Subpart B—Cartage of Packages for Examination
§ 125.11
Cartage for examination in public stores.
(a)
Government cartage.
The cartage of merchandise in Customs custody designated for examination at the public stores shall be done by a licensed customhouse cartman or a bonded carrier under contract or other specific authority for that purpose.
(b)
Where there is no contract for Government cartage.
At ports where there is no contract for Government cartage in effect, the cartage of packages designated for examination at the public stores shall be done by a licensed customhouse cartman or a bonded carrier designated by the port director for this purpose.
(c)
Payment for Government cartmen.
The cost of the cartage shall be paid by Customs.
[T.D. 73-140, 38 FR 13554, May 23, 1973, as amended by T.D. 94-81, 59 FR 51495, Oct. 12, 1994]
§ 125.12
Cartage for examination at importers' premises or other place.
Merchandise designated for examination at an importer's premises or other place not in the charge of a Customs officer may be carted, lightered, or carried to any such place by the importer without a cartman's or lighterman's license, when in the judgment of the port director the revenue will not be endangered. Otherwise, such transfer shall be done by a licensed cartman, who shall be the contract cartman whenever practicable.
§ 125.13
Cartage of merchandise withdrawn from general order for regular entry.
When merchandise withdrawn from general order for regular entry is to be conveyed to a place designated by the port director for examination, the cartage shall be at the expense of the importer and shall be under the cartage arangements established at the port for hauling examination packages under the provisions of § 125.11(a) and (b). Reimbursement of the cost of the cartage shall be collected from the importer prior to release of the merchandise from Customs custody.
§ 125.14
Cartage of unclaimed merchandise.
Unclaimed merchandise shall be carted to the public stores or a bonded warehouse designated by the port director under the cartage arrangements established at the port for hauling examination packages under the provisions of § 125.11. Reimbursement of the cost of the cartage shall be collected from the importer prior to release if entry is made or from the proceeds of sale of the merchandise.
[T.D. 73-140, 38 FR 13554, May 23, 1973, as amended by T.D. 78-151, 43 FR 23566, May 31, 1978]

# Subpart C—Importers' Cartage
§ 125.21
Cartage other than for examination.
Any licensed customhouse cartman, including an importer licensed to cart his own imported merchandise and a bonded carrier provided for in § 112.2 of this chapter, at the expense of the importer or other party in interest, may transfer merchandise from the importing vessel or other conveyance to a bonded warehouse, from one vessel or conveyance to another, from one bonded warehouse to another, from the public stores to a bonded warehouse, from warehouse for transportation or for exportation, and from an internal revenue warehouse for exportation under the internal revenue laws without payment of tax. Foreign trade zone operators, bonded warehouse proprietors, container station operators and centralized examination station operators may engage in limited cartage or lighterage under the conditions specified in § 112.2 of this chapter. Nothing in this section shall apply to the cartage of examination packages to the place of examination.
[T.D. 94-81, 59 FR 51495, Oct. 12, 1994]
§ 125.22
Designation of cartman or lighterman, or other bonded carrier.
Importers and exporters shall designate on the entry and permit of bonded merchandise the bonded cartman, lighterman, or other bonded carrier as provided in § 112.2 of this chapter by whom they wish their merchandise to be conveyed. An importer also may designate a foreign trade zone operator, bonded warehouse proprietor, container station operator or centralized examination station operator under the conditions specified in § 112.2 of this chapter for limited cartage; if he does so, the importer must also designate that the merchandise is bound for the facility run by the operator he designates. Approval of a designation shall be indicated on the entry papers by the initials of the appropriate Customs officer placed in close proximity to the designation.
[T.D. 94-81, 59 FR 51495, Oct. 12, 1994]
§ 125.23
Failure to designate.
If an importer does not cart his merchandise or designate a licensed customhouse cartman, other bonded carrier, foreign trade zone operator, bonded warehouse proprietor, container station operator or centralized examination station operator, as provided for in § 112.2 of this chapter, for the purpose, it shall be carted by a bonded carrier or by a public store cartman authorized by contract or designated by the port director for that purpose. The cost of such cartage shall be paid by the importer of the merchandise before its release from Customs custody.
[T.D. 94-81, 59 FR 51496, Oct. 12, 1994]
§ 125.24
Failure of designated cartman, lighterman or other bonded carrier to appear.
The cartman, lighterman, other bonded carrier, foreign trade zone operator, bonded warehouse proprietor,
container station operator or centralized examination station operator designated to convey the merchandise shall be present to take the merchandise when the Customs officer in charge is ready to send it. If the designated vehicle or lighter is not present, after waiting a reasonable time, such officer shall send the merchandise by any available licensed cartman, lighterman, or qualifying bonded carrier.
[T.D. 94-81, 59 FR 51496, Oct. 12, 1994]

# Subpart D—Delivery and Receipt
§ 125.31
Documents used.
When merchandise is carted or lightered to and received from a bonded store or bonded warehouse, it shall be accompanied by one of the following tickets or documents:
(a) Customs Form 6043—Delivery Ticket.
(b) Customs Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent, Entry Summary, annotated “Permit”.
(c) Customs Form 7512—Transportation Entry and Manifest of Goods Subject to Customs Inspection and Permit.
[T.D. 82-204, 47 FR 49375, Nov. 1, 1982, as amended by T.D. 84-129, 49 FR 23167, June 5, 1984; T.D. 95-81, 60 FR 52295, Oct. 6, 1995; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61287, Oct. 13, 2015]
§ 125.32
Merchandise delivered to a bonded store or bonded warehouse.
When merchandise is carried, carted or lightered to and received in a bonded store or bonded warehouse, the proprietor or his representative shall check the goods against the accompanying delivery ticket, Customs Form 6043, or copy of the permit, Customs Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent, and countersign the document acknowledging receipt of the merchandise as listed thereon. If the proprietor or his agent has been designated to carry the merchandise to his own bonded warehouse, he shall check the goods against the accompanying delivery ticket, Customs Form 6043, or copy of the permit, Customs Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent, at the time he picks up the cargo. Receipt of merchandise by a bonded warehouse proprietor for the purpose of transportation to his own warehouse constitutes receipt into a bonded warehouse.
[T.D. 94-81, 59 FR 51496, Oct. 12, 1994, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61287, Oct. 13, 2015]
§ 125.33
Procedure on receiving merchandise.
(a)
From public or bonded store.
A receipt shall be taken from the cartman, lighterman or bonded carrier for all goods delivered to him from public store or bonded store. The receipt may be taken on Customs Form 6043, or on the appraising officer's release ticket at the time delivery is made.
(b)
From bonded warehouse.
In case of withdrawals from bonded warehouse, the merchandise shall be released only to the proprietor of the warehouse, who shall acknowledge such release on the appropriate withdrawal or removal document.
(c)
All other cases.
A receipt shall be taken for all goods delivered from Customs custody in any other case where the port director deems such receipt necessary.
[T.D. 73-140, 38 FR 13554, May 23, 1973, as amended by T.D. 82-204, 47 FR 49375, Nov. 1, 1982; T.D. 94-81, 59 FR 51496, Oct. 12, 1994]
§ 125.34
Countersigning of documents and notation of bad order or discrepancy.
When a cartman, lighterman, other bonded carrier, foreign trade zone operator, bonded warehouse proprietor, container station operator or centralized examination station operator, as provided for in § 112.2, receives merchandise remaining in Customs custody, he shall countersign the appropriate document in the space provided and shall note thereon any bad order or discrepancy. When available, the importing carrier's tally slip for the merchandise shall be attached to the delivery ticket which accompanies the merchandise while it is being carted or lightered in bond, for the use of Customs officers only at destination.
[T.D. 73-140, 38 FR 13554, May 23, 1973, as amended by T.D. 94-81, 59 FR 51496, Oct. 12, 1994]
§ 125.35
Report of loss, detention, or accident.
Any loss or detention of bonded merchandise, or any accident happening to a vehicle or lighter while carrying bonded merchandise shall be immediately reported by the cartman, lighterman, qualified bonded carrier, foreign trade zone operator, bonded warehouse proprietor, container station operator or centralized examination station operator to the port director.
[T.D. 94-81, 59 FR 51496, Oct. 12, 1994]
§ 125.36
Inability to deliver merchandise.
If the warehouse is closed or the warehouseman refuses to receive the merchandise, the cartman or bonded carrier shall notify the appropriate Customs inspector. The inspector shall promptly report the facts to the port director or his delegated representative for instructions. The merchandise shall then be returned to the Customs inspector, deposited in the public stores for safekeeping, or handled as ordered by the port director.
[T.D. 73-140, 38 FR 13554, May 23, 1973, as amended by T.D. 94-81, 59 FR 51496, Oct. 12, 1994]

# Subpart E—Liability
§ 125.41
Liability for cartage.
(a)
Liability of cartman, lighterman or bonded carrier.
The cartman, lighterman, or bonded carrier conveying the merchandise, including merchandise covered by a TIR carnet which has not been “taken on charge” (see § 114.22(c)(2) of this chapter), shall be liable under his bond for its prompt delivery in sound condition, or in no worse than the damaged condition noted on the delivery ticket, if damage is so noted.
(b)
Liability of foreign trade zone operator, bonded warehouse proprietor, container station operator or centralized examination station operator.
A foreign trade zone operator, bonded warehouse proprietor, container station operator or centralized examination station operator who picks up merchandise including merchandise covered by a TIR carnet which has not been “taken on charge”, to transport the merchandise to his own facility shall be liable under his bond for the merchandise as soon as he collects the merchandise. The merchandise must be receipted as soon as it is picked up and must be delivered to either the respective foreign trade zone, bonded warehouse, container station or centralized examination station promptly after it is picked up in sound condition, or in no worse than the damaged condition noted on the delivery ticket, if damage is noted.
[T.D. 94-81, 59 FR 51496, Oct. 12, 1994]
§ 125.42
Cancellation of liability.
The Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer, in accordance with delegated authority, may cancel liquidated damages incurred under the bond of the foreign trade zone operator, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.73 of this chapter, or under the bond of the cartman, lighterman, bonded carrier, bonded warehouse operator, container station operator or centralized examination station operator on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.63 of this chapter, upon the payment of such lesser amount, or without the payment of any amount, as the Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer may deem appropriate under the circumstances. Application for cancellation of liquidated damages incurred shall be made in accordance with the provisions of part 172 of this chapter.
[T.D. 00-57, 65 FR 53575, Sept. 5, 2000]
Pt. 127

# PART 127—GENERAL ORDER, UNCLAIMED, AND ABANDONED MERCHANDISE
Sec.
127.0
Scope.

# Subpart A—General Order Merchandise
127.1
Merchandise considered general order merchandise.
127.2
Withdrawal from general order for entry or exportation.
127.4
General order period defined.

# Subpart B—Unclaimed and Abandoned Merchandise
127.11
Unclaimed merchandise.
127.12
Abandoned merchandise.
127.13
Storage of unclaimed and abandoned merchandise.
127.14
Disposition of merchandise in Customs custody beyond time fixed by law.

# Subpart C—Sale of Unclaimed and Abandoned Merchandise
127.21
Time of sale.
127.22
Place of sale.
127.23
Appraisement of merchandise.
127.24
Notice of sale.
127.25
Advertisement of sale.
127.26
Catalogs.
127.27
Conduct of sale.
127.28
Special merchandise.
127.29
Unsold merchandise.

# Subpart D—Proceeds of Sale
127.31
Disposition of proceeds.
127.32
Expenses of cartage, storage, and labor.
127.33
Chargeable duties.
127.34
Auctioneer's commissions.
127.35
Presentation of accounts.
127.36
Claim for surplus proceeds of sale.
127.37
Insufficient proceeds.

# Subpart E—Title to Unclaimed and Abandoned Merchandise Vesting in Government
127.41
Government title to unclaimed and abandoned merchandise.
127.42
Disposition of merchandise owned by Government.
127.43
Petition of party for surplus proceeds had merchandise been sold.

# Authority:
19 U.S.C. 66, 1311, 1312, 1484, 1485, 1490, 1491, 1492, 1493, 1506, 1559, 1563, 1623, 1624, 1646a; 26 U.S.C. 5753.
Section 127.12 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1753;
Section 127.14 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1555, 1556, 1557;
Section 127.21 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1753;
Section 127.28 also issued under 15 U.S.C. 2612, 26 U.S.C. 5688;
Sections 127.31, 127.36, 127.37 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1753.

# Source:
T.D. 74-114, 39 FR 12092, Apr. 3, 1974, unless otherwise noted.
§ 127.0
Scope.
This part sets forth regulations pertaining to general order merchandise, unclaimed merchandise, and abandoned merchandise, the storage and sale thereof, and the distribution of the proceeds from the sale thereof. Regulations regarding the abandonment of merchandise by the importer to the Government in accordance with section 506(1), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1506(1)), appear in part 158 of this chapter.

# Subpart A—General Order Merchandise
§ 127.1
Merchandise considered general order merchandise.
Merchandise shall be considered general order merchandise when it is taken into the custody of the port director and deposited in the public stores or a general order warehouse at the risk and expense of the consignee for any of the following reasons:
(a) Whenever entry of any imported merchandise is not made within the time provided by law or regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury.
(b) Whenever entry is incomplete because of failure to pay estimated duties.
(c) Whenever, in the opinion of the port director, entry cannot be made for want of proper documents or other causes.
(d) Whenever the port director believes that any merchandise is not correctly or legally invoiced.
(e) Whenever, at the request of the consignee or the owner or master of the vessel or person in charge of the vehicle in which merchandise is imported, any merchandise is taken possession of by the port director after the expiration of 1 day after entry of the vessel or report of the vehicle.
§ 127.2
Withdrawal from general order for entry or exportation.
(a)
Exportation within 6 months from date of importation.
Merchandise in general order may be exported without examination or appraisement if the merchandise is delivered to the exporting carrier within 6 months from the date of importation. This merchandise may be entered within 6 months from date of importation for immediate transportation to any port of entry designated by the consignee.
(b)
After expiration of 6 months from date of importation.
Entry for immediate transportation shall be permitted after the expiration of the 6-month period only for the purpose of filing an
entry for consumption at the port of destination.
(c)
Withdrawal of less than single general order lot.
The withdrawal from general order of less than a single general order lot shall not be permitted except as provided for in § 141.52 of this chapter.
[T.D. 74-114, 39 FR 12092, Apr. 3, 1974, as amended by T.D. 98-74, 63 FR 51290, Sept. 25, 1998]
§ 127.4
General order period defined.
The general order period is that period of time during which general order merchandise, as defined in § 127.1, is not subject to sale. The general order period expires 6 months from the date of importation.
[T.D. 79-221, 44 FR 46814, Aug. 9, 1979, as amended by T.D. 98-74, 63 FR 51290, Sept. 25, 1998]

# Subpart B—Unclaimed and Abandoned Merchandise
§ 127.11
Unclaimed merchandise.
Any entered or unentered merchandise (except merchandise under section 557, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1557), but including merchandise entered for transportation in bond or for exportation) which remains in Customs custody for 6 months from the date of importation or a lesser period for special merchandise as provided by § 127.28 (c), (d), and (h), and without all estimated duties and storage or other charges having been paid, shall be considered unclaimed and abandoned.
[T.D. 79-221, 44 FR 46814, Aug. 9, 1979, as amended by T.D. 98-74, 63 FR 51290, Sept. 25, 1998]
§ 127.12
Abandoned merchandise.
(a)
Involuntarily abandoned merchandise.
The following shall be considered to be involuntarily abandoned merchandise:
(1) Articles entered for a trade fair under the provisions of section 3 of the Trade Fair Act of 1959 (19 U.S.C. 1752), which are still in Customs custody at the expiration of 3 months after the closing date of the fair for which they were entered. (See § 147.47 of this chapter.)
(2) Any imported merchandise upon which any duties or charges are unpaid, remaining in a bonded warehouse beyond the 5-year warehouse period.
(b)
Voluntarily abandoned merchandise.
The following merchandise shall be considered to be voluntarily abandoned merchandise and the property of the United States Government:
(1) Merchandise which is taken possession of by the port director at the request of the consignee, or owner or master of the vessel or person in charge of the vehicle in which the merchandise was imported.
(2) Merchandise abandoned by the importer to the United States within 30 days after entry in the case of merchandise not sent to the public stores for examination, or within 30 days after the release of the examination packages or merchandise in the case of merchandise sent to the public stores for examination.
(3) Articles entered for a trade fair under the provisions of section 3 of the Trade Fair Act of 1959 (19 U.S.C. 1752), which have been abandoned to the United States within 3 months of the closing of the fair.
(4) Merchandise in a bonded warehouse abandoned by the consignee within 3 years from the date of original importation. (See subpart D of part 158 of this chapter.)
[T.D. 74-114, 39 FR 12092, Apr. 3, 1974, as amended by T.D. 79-221, 44 FR 46814, Aug. 9, 1979]
§ 127.13
Storage of unclaimed and abandoned merchandise.
(a)
Place of storage.
A class 11 bonded warehouse or warehouse of class 3, 4, or 5, certified by the port director as qualified to receive general order merchandise, will be responsible for the transportation and storage of unclaimed and abandoned merchandise, upon due notification to the proprietor of the warehouse by the arriving carrier (or other party to whom the carrier has transferred the merchandise under a Customs-authorized permit to transfer or in-bond entry), as provided in §§ 4.37(c), 122.50(c), and 123.10(c) of this chapter. If no warehouse of these classes is available to receive general
order merchandise, or if the merchandise requires specialized storage facilities which are unavailable in a bonded facility, the port director, after having received notice of the presence of unentered merchandise or baggage in accordance with the provisions of this section, will direct the storage of the merchandise by the carrier or by any other appropriate means.
(b)
Payment of storage and expenses.
Storage at the ordinary rates and all other expenses shall be paid by the owner or consignee of the merchandise upon entry thereof. If the goods are sold, such charges shall be paid from the proceeds of the sale to the extent that proceeds are available.
[T.D. 74-114, 39 FR 12092, Apr. 3, 1974, as amended by T.D. 02-65, 67 FR 68034, Nov. 8, 2002]
§ 127.14
Disposition of merchandise in Customs custody beyond time fixed by law.
(a)
Merchandise subject to sale or other disposition
—(1)
General.
If storage or other charges due the United States have not been paid on merchandise remaining in Customs custody after the expiration of the bond period in the case of merchandise entered for warehouse, or after the expiration of the general order period, as defined in § 127.4, in any other case, even though any duties due have been paid, such merchandise will be sold as provided in subpart C of this part, retained for official use as provided in subpart E of this part, destroyed, or otherwise disposed of as authorized by the Commissioner of Customs under the law, unless the merchandise is entered or withdrawn for consumption in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(2)
Destruction of merchandise
—(i)
Proprietor responsibility.
If the port director concludes that merchandise in general order has no commercial value or is otherwise unsalable and cannot be disposed of at public auction (
see
§ 127.29), and that its destruction is warranted, the warehouse proprietor must assume responsibility under bond, including the expense, for destroying the merchandise (
see
§ 113.63(c)(3) of this chapter). The port director will authorize such destruction on Customs Form (CF) 3499, or on a similar Customs document as designated by the port director or an electronic equivalent as authorized by Customs.
(ii)
Notice of destruction.
Before destroying the merchandise, the warehouse proprietor must first make a reasonable effort under bond (
see
§ 113.63(b) and (c) of this chapter), to identify and inform the importer (owner) or consignee regarding the intended destruction of the merchandise. When the appropriate party is identified, notice of destruction will be provided to the party on Customs Form (CF) 5251, appropriately modified, or other similar Customs document as designated by the port director or an electronic equivalent as authorized by Customs, at least 30 calendar days prior to the date of intended destruction.
(b)
Entry of merchandise subject to sale.
Merchandise subject to sale (except merchandise abandoned under section 506(1) or 563(b), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1506(1), 1563(b))), may be entered or withdrawn for consumption at any time prior to the sale upon payment of the duties, any internal revenue tax, and all charges and expenses that may have accrued thereon. Such merchandise may not be exported without payment of duty nor entered for warehouse.
(c)
Release of merchandise to warehouse proprietor.
The following merchandise for which a permit to release has been issued shall be held to be no longer in the custody of Customs officers and shall be released to the warehouse proprietor:
(1) Merchandise upon which all duties and charges have been paid.
(2) Free and duty-paid merchandise upon which all charges have been paid, not entered for warehouse which remains in bonded warehouse for more than the general order period.
[T.D. 74-114, 39 FR 12092, Apr. 3, 1974, as amended by T.D. 75-161, 40 FR 28790, July 9, 1975; T.D. 79-221, 44 FR 46814, Aug. 9, 1979; T.D. 82-204, 47 FR 49375, Nov. 1, 1982; T.D. 02-65, 67 FR 68034, Nov. 8, 2002]

# Subpart C—Sale of Unclaimed and Abandoned Merchandise
§ 127.21
Time of sale.
All unclaimed and abandoned merchandise will be sold at the first regular sale held after the merchandise becomes subject to sale, unless a deferment of its sale is authorized by the port director. Regular sales shall be made once every year or more often at the discretion of the port director.
[T.D. 74-114, 39 FR 12092, Apr. 3, 1974, as amended by T.D. 02-65, 67 FR 68034, Nov. 8, 2002]
§ 127.22
Place of sale.
The port director, in his discretion, may authorize the sale of merchandise subject to sale (including explosives, perishable articles and articles liable to depreciation) at any port. The consignee of any merchandise which is to be transferred from the port where it was imported to another port for sale, shall be notified of the transfer so that he may have the option of making entry of the merchandise before the transfer and sale.
[T.D. 95-77, 60 FR 50020, Sept. 27, 1995]
§ 127.23
Appraisement of merchandise.
Before unclaimed and abandoned merchandise is offered for sale, it shall be appraised in accordance with sections 402 and 402a, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1401a, 1402). Such merchandise shall also be appraised at its actual domestic value in its condition at the time and place of examination, whether or not it has depreciated or appreciated in value since the date of exportation. The quantity of merchandise in each lot shall be reported.
§ 127.24
Notice of sale.
Notice of sale shall be sent on Customs Form 5251, 30 days prior to the date of sale, or 30 days prior to the transfer of merchandise to the place of sale, to the following:
(a) Importer, if known; or
(b) Consignee, if name and address can be ascertained; or
(c) Shipper, his representative or agent, if merchandise is consigned to order or consignee cannot be ascertained; or
(d) Warehouse transferee; or
(e) Lienholder.
§ 127.25
Advertisement of sale.
(a)
Regular advertising.
Except as prescribed in § 127.28 (c), (d), and (h), and in paragraph (b) of this section, a brief notice of the time and place of sale shall be given for three successive weeks, immediately preceding the sale, in one newspaper of extensive circulation published at the port where the sale is to be held. The newspaper is to be selected by the port director and publication of the notice shall be authorized on the standard form provided for that purpose. The notice shall designate the place where catalogs may be obtained and a reasonable opportunity to inspect the merchandise shall be afforded prospective purchasers.
(b)
Where proceeds are insufficient to pay expenses and duties.
If the port director is satisfied that the proceeds of the sale will not be sufficient to pay the expenses and duties, a written or printed notice of the sale in lieu of the advertisement shall be conspicuously posted in the customhouse, and, if deemed necessary, at some other proper place for the time specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 127.26
Catalogs.
Catalogs, if used shall specify the description of packages, the description and quantities of their contents, the appraised value thereof, and also the domestic value at the time and place of the examination of the merchandise. They shall be distributed at the sale and announcement made that the Government does not guarantee quality or value and that no allowance will be made for any deficiency found after sale.
§ 127.27
Conduct of sale.
Sales may be conducted by the port director, any employee designated by him or by a public auctioneer.
§ 127.28
Special merchandise.
(a)
Drugs, seeds, plants, nursery stock, and other articles required to be inspected by the Department of Agriculture.
Drugs, seeds, plants, nursery stock, and other articles required to be inspected by the
Department of Agriculture must be inspected by a representative of the Department of Agriculture to ascertain whether they comply with the requirements of the law and regulations of that Department. If found not to comply with such requirements, they shall be immediately destroyed.
(b)
Pesticides and devices.
Pesticides and devices intended for trapping, destroying, repelling or mitigating any pest or any other form of plant or animal life (other than man or other than bacteria, virus, or other microorganism on or in living man or other living animals) shall be inspected by a representative of the Environmental Protection Agency to ascertain whether they comply with the requirements of the law and regulations of that agency. If found not to comply with such requirements, they shall be immediately destroyed.
(c)
Explosives, dangerous articles, fruit, and perishables.
Unclaimed explosives and other dangerous articles, and fruit and other perishable articles shall be sold after 3-days' public notice. When it is probable that entry will be made at an early date for unclaimed perishable merchandise, the port director may hold the merchandise for a reasonable time in a bonded cold-storage warehouse if one is available.
(d)
Articles liable to depreciation.
Other unclaimed merchandise shall be sold at public auction upon public notice of not less than 6 or more than 10 days, as the port director may determine, if in his opinion such merchandise will depreciate and sell for an amount insufficient to pay the duties, storage, and other charges if allowed to remain in general order for 6 months.
(e)
Tobacco and tobacco products.
Tobacco articles and tobacco materials as defined in 26 U.S.C. 5702(j) and (k), may be sold for domestic consumption only if they will bring an amount sufficient to pay the expenses of sale as well as the internal revenue tax. If these articles cannot be sold for domestic consumption in accordance with the foregoing conditions, they shall be destroyed unless they can be advantageously sold for export from continuous Customs custody or unless the Commissioner of Customs has authorized other disposition to be made under the law. These articles may be sold for domestic consumption even though the proceeds of sale will not cover the duties due.
(f)
Distilled spirits, wines, and malt beverages.
All unclaimed and abandoned distilled spirits, wines, and malt beverages may be sold for domestic consumption if they will bring an amount sufficient to pay the internal revenue tax. If they cannot be sold for domestic consumption in accordance with the foregoing condition, they shall be destroyed unless they can be advantageously sold for export from continuous Customs custody or unless the Commissioner of Customs has authorized other disposition to be made under the law. The sale must be conducted in accordance with the alcoholic beverage laws of the state in which the sale is held.
(g)
Other merchandise subject to internal revenue taxes.
All other unclaimed and abandoned merchandise subject to internal revenue taxes may be sold for domestic consumption if it will bring an amount sufficient to pay the internal revenue tax. If, in the opinion of the port director, it is insufficient in value to justify its sale, the merchandise shall be destroyed, unless it can be advantageously sold for export from continuous Customs custody or unless the Commissioner of Customs has authorized other disposition to be made under the law. These articles may be sold for domestic consumption even though the proceeds of sale will not cover the duties due.
(h)
Unclaimed merchandise remaining on dock.
Unclaimed merchandise remaining on the dock which, in the opinion of the port director, will not sell for enough to pay the cost of cartage and storage shall be sold at public auction upon public notice of not less than 6 or more than 10 days.
(i)
Good subject to TSCA Requirements.
A good subject to TSCA requirements,
i.e.,
a covered commodity as defined in section 12.120 of this chapter, will be inspected by a representative of the Environmental Protection Agency to ascertain whether it complies with the Toxic Substances Control Act and the regulations and orders issued thereunder. If found not to comply with these requirements that good must be
exported or otherwise disposed of immediately in accordance with the provisions of §§ 12.125 through 12.127 of this chapter.
[T.D. 74-114, 39 FR 12092, Apr. 3, 1974, as amended by T.D. 83-158, 48 FR 34740, Aug. 1, 1983; T.D. 98-74, 63 FR 51290, Sept. 25, 1998; T.D. 02-65, 67 FR 68034, Nov. 8, 2002; CBP Dec. 16-28, 81 FR 94986, Dec. 27, 2016]
§ 127.29
Unsold merchandise.
Merchandise offered for sale but not sold shall be included in the next regular sale of unclaimed and abandoned merchandise. If the port director is satisfied that such merchandise is unsalable or of no commercial value, it shall be destroyed.

# Subpart D—Proceeds of Sale
§ 127.31
Disposition of proceeds.
From the proceeds of sale of merchandise remaining in public stores or in bonded warehouse beyond the time fixed by law, the following charges shall be paid in the order named:
(a) Internal revenue taxes.
(b) Expenses of advertising and sale.
(c) Expenses of cartage, storage and labor. When the proceeds are insufficient to pay such charges fully, they shall be paid pro rata. (For merchandise entered for warehousing, see § 127.32 of this subpart.)
(d) Duties.
(e) Any other charges due the United States in connection with the merchandise.
(f) Any sum due to satisfy a lien for freight, charges, or contributions in general average, of which due notice shall have been given in the manner prescribed by law.
§ 127.32
Expenses of cartage, storage, and labor.
The expenses of cartage, storage, and labor for merchandise entered for warehousing shall be paid in the following order:
(a) When such merchandise was warehoused in public stores, expenses of storage and labor shall be paid after expenses of sale (pro-rated when proceeds are insufficient to pay them fully) and any cartage charges shall be paid last.
(b) When such merchandise was warehoused in a bonded warehouse, expenses of storage, cartage, and labor shall be paid last (pro-rated when proceeds are insufficient to pay them fully).
§ 127.33
Chargeable duties.
The duties chargeable on any merchandise within the purview of this subpart shall be assessed on the appraised dutiable value at the rate of duty chargeable at the time the merchandise became subject to sale. Household and personal effects of the character provided for in Chapter 98, Subchapter IV, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202), which belong to persons who have not arrived in this country before the effects become subject to sale, are dutiable at the rates in effect when the effects become subject to sale, even though such persons arrive and make entry for the effects before they are sold.
[T.D. 74-114, 39 FR 12092, Apr. 3, 1974, as amended by T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51255, Dec. 21, 1988; T.D. 97-82, 62 FR 51770, Oct. 3, 1997]
§ 127.34
Auctioneer's commissions.
The duties of the auctioneer shall be confined to selling the merchandise and his charge for such service shall in no case exceed the commissions usual at the port. Such commissions shall be based on the amount of the successful bid.
§ 127.35
Presentation of accounts.
Accounts for the auctioneer's charges and all other expenses of sale which may be properly chargeable on the merchandise shall be presented to the port director for payment within 10 days from the date of sale. Such expenses shall be apportioned pro rata on the amounts received for different lots sold.
§ 127.36
Claim for surplus proceeds of sale.
(a)
Filing of claim.
Claims for the surplus proceeds of the sale of unclaimed or abandoned merchandise shall be filed with the port director at whose direction the merchandise was sold. The following shall be used in filing a claim:
(1)
Unclaimed merchandise.
Claims for surplus proceeds of the sale of unclaimed merchandise which has become abandoned and sold under section 491 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1491), shall be supported by the original bill of lading. If only part of a shipment is involved, either a photostatic or certified copy of the original bill of lading may be submitted in lieu of the original bill of lading.
(2)
Involuntarily abandoned merchandise
—(i)
Warehouse goods deemed abandoned.
Claims for surplus proceeds of sale of warehouse goods deemed involuntarily abandoned sold under section 559 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1559), shall be established by reference to the warehouse entry, or, if the right to withdraw the merchandise from warehouse has been transferred, by reference to the documents by which the transfer was made.
(ii)
Trade fair articles deemed abandoned.
Claims for surplus proceeds of sale of trade fair articles deemed involuntarily (mandatorily) abandoned under section 4 of the Trade Fair Act of 1959 (19 U.S.C. 1753(c)), shall be supported by the original bill of lading. If only part of a shipment is involved, either a photostatic copy or certified copy of the original bill of lading may be submitted in lieu of the original bill of lading. (See § 147.47 of this chapter.)
(b)
Payment of claim.
If a claim of the owner or consignee of unclaimed or abandoned merchandise for the surplus proceeds of sale is properly established as provided in this section, such proceeds of sale shall be paid to him pursuant to section 493 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1493).
(c)
Doubtful claims.
Any doubtful claims for the proceeds of sale along with all pertinent documents and information available to the port director shall be forwarded to the Commissioner of Customs for instructions or for referral to the General Accounting Office for direct settlement.
§ 127.37
Insufficient proceeds.
(a)
Warehouse merchandise deemed involuntarily abandoned.
If the proceeds of sale of warehouse merchandise deemed involuntarily abandoned are insufficient to pay the duties after payment of all charges having priority, the deficiency shall be collected under the bond for the importation and entry of merchandise on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter.
(b)
Unclaimed merchandise and trade fair articles involuntarily abandoned.
If the proceeds of sale of unclaimed merchandise or trade fair articles involuntarily abandoned are insufficient to pay the charges and duties, the consignee shall be liable for the deficiency unless the merchandise was shipped to him without his consent. If no entry for the merchandise has been filed, and no other attempt to control the merchandise has been made, the merchandise shall be regarded as shipped to the consignee without his consent and no effort shall be made to collect any deficiency of duties or charges from such consignee.
[T.D. 74-114, 39 FR 12092, Apr. 3, 1974, as amended by T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41183, Oct. 19, 1984]

# Subpart E—Title to Unclaimed and Abandoned Merchandise Vesting in Government

# Source:
T.D. 02-65, 67 FR 68034, Nov. 8, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 127.41
Government title to unclaimed and abandoned merchandise.
(a)
Vesting of title in Government.
At the end of the 6-month period noted in § 127.11 of this part, at which time merchandise having thus remained in Customs custody is considered as unclaimed and abandoned, the port director, with the concurrence of the Assistant Commissioner, Office of Field Operations, may, in lieu of sale of the merchandise as provided in subpart C of this part, provide notice to all known interested parties under paragraph (b) of this section that the title to such merchandise will be considered as vesting in the United States, free and clear of any liens or encumbrances, as of the 30th day after the date of the notice unless, before the 30th day, the merchandise is entered or withdrawn for consumption and all duties, taxes, fees, transfer and storage charges, and any other expenses that may have accrued on the merchandise are paid.
(b)
Notice to known interested parties.
Notice that the title to unclaimed and abandoned merchandise will vest in the United States, as described in paragraph (a) of this section, will be sent to the following parties on Customs Form (CF) 5251, appropriately modified, or other similar Customs document as designated by the port director or an electronic equivalent as authorized by Customs:
(1) Importer, if known;
(2) Consignee, if name and address can be ascertained;
(3) Shipper, or the shipper's representative or agent, if merchandise is consigned to order or the consignee cannot be ascertained; and
(4) Any other known interested parties.
(c)
Appraisement of merchandise.
Before title to unclaimed and abandoned merchandise is vested in the United States, the merchandise will be appraised in accordance with section 402, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1401a).
§ 127.42
Disposition of merchandise owned by Government.
(a)
Disposition.
If title to any unclaimed and abandoned merchandise vests in the United States under § 127.41, the merchandise may be retained by Customs for its official use, or in Customs discretion, the merchandise may be transferred to any other Federal, state or local agency, destroyed or disposed of otherwise.
(b)
Payment of charges and expenses.
All transfer and storage charges or expenses accruing on retained or transferred merchandise will be paid by the receiving agency. Such transfer and storage charges or expenses will include those accruing with respect to the merchandise while subject to general order.
§ 127.43
Petition of party for surplus proceeds had merchandise been sold.
(a)
Filing of petition.
Under section 491(d), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1491(d)), any party who can satisfactorily establish title to or a substantial interest in unclaimed and abandoned merchandise, the title to which has vested in the United States, may file a petition for the amount that would have been payable to the party had the merchandise been sold and a proper claim made under section 493, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1493).
(b)
When and with whom filed.
The petition may be filed with the port director at whose direction the title to the merchandise was vested in the United States. If the party received notice under § 127.41(b), the petition must be filed within 30 calendar days after the day on which title vested in the United States. If the party can satisfactorily establish that such notice was not received, the party must file the petition within 30 calendar days of learning of the vesting but not later than 90 calendar days from the vesting.
(c)
Evidence required.
The petition must show the party's title to or interest in the merchandise, and be supported, as appropriate, with the original bill of lading, bill of sale, contract, mortgage, or other satisfactory documentary evidence, or a certified copy of the foregoing. Also, if applicable, the petition must be supported by satisfactoryproof that the petitioner did not receive notice that title to the merchandise would vest in the United States and was in such circumstances as prevented the receipt of notice.
(d)
Payment of claim.
If the claim of the owner, consignee, or other party having title to or a substantial interest in the merchandise, is properly established as provided in this section, the party may be paid out of the Treasury of the United States the amount that it is believed the party would have received under 19 U.S.C. 1493 had the merchandise been sold and a proper claim for the surplus of the proceeds of sale been made under that provision (
see
§ 127.36 of this part). In determining the amount that may have been payable under 19 U.S.C. 1493, given that the merchandise was not in fact sold at public auction under 19 U.S.C. 1491(a), the appraisement of the merchandise, as provided in § 127.41(c), will be taken into consideration. By virtue of the authority delegated to the port director in this matter, any payment made as provided under this paragraph in connection with the filing of a petition
under paragraph (b) of this section will be final and conclusive on all parties.
(e)
Doubtful claim.
Any doubtful claim for payment along with all pertinent documents and information available to the port director will be forwarded to the Assistant Commissioner, Office of Administration, for instructions. The decision of the Assistant Commissioner, Office of Administration, with respect to any petition filed under this section will be final and conclusive on all parties.
[T.D. 02-65, 67 FR 68034, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended by CBP Dec. 12-21, 77 FR 73309, Dec. 10, 2012]
Pt. 128

# PART 128—EXPRESS CONSIGNMENTS
Sec.
128.0
Scope.

# Subpart A—General
128.1
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Administration
128.11
Express consignment carrier application process.
128.12
Application approval/denial and suspension of operating privileges.
128.13
Application processing fee.

# Subpart C—Procedures
128.21
Manifest requirements.
128.22
Bonds.
128.23
Entry requirements.
128.24
Informal entry procedures.
128.25
Formal entry procedures.

# Authority:
19 U.S.C. 58c, 66, 1202 (General Note 3(i), Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States), 1321, 1484, 1498, 1551, 1555, 1556, 1565, 1624.

# Source:
T.D. 89-53, 54 FR 19566, May 8, 1989, unless otherwise noted.
§ 128.0
Scope.
This part sets forth requirements and procedures for the clearance of imported merchandise carried by express consignment operators and carriers, including couriers, under special procedures.

# Subpart A—General
§ 128.1
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part the following definitions shall apply:
(a)
Express consignment operator or carrier.
An “express consignment operator or carrier” is an entity operating in any mode or intermodally moving cargo by special express commercial service under closely integrated administrative control. Its services are offered to the public under advertised, reliable timely delivery on a door-to-door basis. An express consignment operator assumes liability to Customs for the articles in the same manner as if it is the sole carrier.
(b)
Cargo.
“Cargo” means any and all shipments imported into the Customs territory of the United States by an express consignment operator or carrier whether manifested, accompanied, or unaccompanied.
(c)
Courier shipment.
A “courier shipment” is an accompanied express consignment shipment.
(d)
Hub.
A “hub” is a separate, unique, single purpose facility normally operating outside of Customs operating hours approved by the port director for entry filing, examination, and release of express consignment shipments.
(e)
Express consignment carrier facility.
An “express consignment carrier facility” is a separate or shared specialized facility approved by the port director solely for the examination and release of express consignment shipments.
(f)
Closely integrated administrative control.
The term “closely integrated administrative control” means operations must be sufficiently integrated at both ends of the service (i.e., pick-up and delivery) so that the express consignment company can exercise a high degree of control over the shipments, particularly in regard to the reliability of information supplied for Customs purposes. Such control would be indicated by substantial common ownership between the local company and the foreign affiliate and/or by a very close contractual relationship between the local company and its foreign affiliate(s) (
e.g.,
a franchise arrangement).
(g)
Reimbursable.
“Reimbursable” means all normal costs incurred at an
express consignment operator's hub or an express consignment carrier facility that are required to be reimbursed to the Government.

# Subpart B—Administration
§ 128.11
Express consignment carrier application process.
(a)
Facility application.
Requests for approval of an express consignment carrier or hub facility must be in writing to the port director.
(b)
Application contents.
The application for approval of an express consignment carrier or hub facility must include the following:
(1) A full description of the international cargo facilities, including blueprints, floor plans and facility location(s).
(2) A statement of the general character of the express consignment operations that includes, in the case of an express consignment carrier facility, a list of all carriers or operators that intend to use the facility.
(3) An estimate of volume of transactions by:
(i) Formal entries.
(ii) Informal entries.
(iii) Shipments not requiring entry (see § 128.23 of this part).
(4) An application processing fee, as set forth in § 128.13.
(5) A list of principal company officials or officers.
(6) A projected start-up date, and days and hours of operation.
(7) An agreement that the express consignment entity will:
(i) Ensure that all cargo will be processed in the CBP Automated Commercial Environment (ACE) or any other CBP-authorized electronic data interchange system, and associated applications including, but not limited to, Automated Broker Interface (ABI), Automated Manifest System (AMS), Cargo Selectivity, and Statement Processing.
(ii) Sign and implement a narcotics enforcement agreement with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE).
(iii) Provide, without cost to the Government, adequate office space, equipment, furnishings, supplies and security as per CBP's specifications.
(iv) If the entity is an express consignment carrier facility, provide to Customs and Border Protection, Revenue Division/Attention: Reimbursables, 6650 Telecom Drive, Suite 100, Indianapolis, Indiana 46278, at the beginning of each calendar quarter, a list of all carriers or operators currently using the facility and notify that office whenever a new carrier or operator begins to use the facility or whenever a carrier or operator ceases to use the facility.
(v) If the entity is a hub facility or an express consignment carrier, timely pay all applicable processing fees prescribed in § 24.23 of this chapter.
(c)
Changes or alterations to facility.
All proposed changes or alterations to an existing approved international cargo processing facility must be submitted in writing to the port director for approval prior to the implementation thereof and must contain the information specified in paragraph (b) of this section. Failure to obtain CBP approval by an express consignment operator or carrier for any modifications to the international cargo processing area may result in the suspension of approval as an express consignment facility or hub and the procedures for processing cargo contained in this part.
[T.D. 89-53, 54 FR 19566, May 8, 1989, as amended by T.D. 93-66, 58 FR 44130, Aug. 19, 1993; CBP Dec. 07-29, 72 FR 31725, June 8, 2007; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61287, Oct. 13, 2015]
§ 128.12
Application approval/denial and suspension of operating privileges.
(a)
Notice.
(1) The port director shall promptly notify the applicant in writing of the decision to approve or deny the application to establish an express consignment carrier or hub facility or to suspend or revoke operating privileges at an existing facility.
(2) The notice shall specifically state the grounds for denial or for the proposed suspension or revocation.
(b)
Appeal.
The express consignment entity may file a written notice of appeal seeking review of the denial or proposed suspension or revocation within 30 days after notification.
(c)
Recommendation.
The port director shall consider the allegations and responses in the appeal unless, in the
case of a suspension or revocation, the express consignment entity requests a hearing. The appeal along with the port director's recommendation shall be forwarded to the Commissioner of Customs or his designee for a final administrative decision.
(d)
Hearing.
In the case of a proposed suspension or revocation, a hearing may be requested within 30 days after notification. If a hearing is requested, it shall be held before a hearing officer appointed by the Commissioner of Customs or his designee within 30 days following the express consignment entity's request. The entity shall be notified of the time and place of the hearing at least 5 days prior thereto. The express consignment entity may be represented by counsel at such hearing, and all evidence and testimony of witnesses in such proceedings, including substantiation of the allegations and the responses thereto shall be presented, with the right of cross-examination to both parties. A stenographic record of any such proceeding shall be made and a copy thereof shall be delivered to the express consignment entity. At the conclusion of the hearing, all papers and the stenographic record of the hearing shall promptly be transmitted to the Commissioner of Customs or his designee together with a recommendation for final action. The express consignment entity may submit in writing additional views or arguments to the Commissioner or his designee following a hearing on the basis of the stenographic record, within 10 days after delivery to it of a copy of such record. The Commissioner or his designee shall thereafter render the decision in writing, stating the reasons therefor. Such decision shall be served on the express consignment entity, and shall be considered the final administrative action.
§ 128.13
Application processing fee.
Each operator of an express consignment hub or carrier facility will be charged a fee to establish, alter, or relocate such facility which shall be determined under the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 9701. The fee will be periodically reviewed and revised to reflect changes in processing expenses and any changes thereto will be published in the
Federal Register
and “Customs Bulletin”.

# Subpart C—Procedures
§ 128.21
Manifest requirements.
(a)
Additional information.
Express consignment operators and carriers shall provide the following manifest information in advance of the arrival of all cargo, including all articles for which an entry is not required as noted in § 128.23 (which shall be listed separately and their entry status noted), in addition to the information and documents otherwise required by this chapter:
(1) Country of origin of the merchandise.
(2) Shipper name, address and country.
(3) Ultimate consignee name and address.
(4) Specific description of the merchandise, and under the following conditions, the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) subheading number:
(i) If the merchandise is required to be formally entered as provided in § 128.25; or
(ii) If the merchandise is eligible for, and is entered under, the informal entry procedures as provided in § 128.24, but may not be passed free of duty and tax as consisting of a shipment of merchandise imported by one person on one day having a fair retail value in the country of shipment not exceeding $800, as provided in § 128.24(e).
(5) Quantity.
(6) Shipping weight.
(7) Value.
(b)
Sorting of cargo.
If the shipments are physically sorted by country of origin of the merchandise when they arrive at the hub or express consignment facility and are presented to Customs in this manner, the advance manifest information shall also be provided with the merchandise segregated by country of origin.
[T.D. 89-53, 54 FR 19566, May 8, 1989, as amended by T.D. 94-51, 59 FR 30294, June 13, 1994; CBP Dec. No. 16-13, 81 FR 58833, Aug. 26, 2016]
§ 128.22
Bonds.
Each express consignment operator or carrier must be recognized by Customs as an international carrier and approved as a carrier of bonded merchandise, and shall file bonds on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in §§ 113.62, 113.63, 113.64 and 113.66 of this chapter, to insure compliance with Customs requirements relating to the importation and entry of merchandise as well as the carriage and custody of merchandise under Customs control.
§ 128.23
Entry requirements.
(a)
General rule.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all articles carried by an express consignment entity shall be entered by a person with the right to file entry.
(b)
Procedures
—(1)
General.
All express consignment entities utilizing the procedures in this part must comply with the requirements of the CBP Automated Commercial Environment (ACE) or any other CBP-authorized electronic data interchange system. These requirements include those under the Automated Manifest System (AMS), Cargo Selectivity, Statement Processing, the Automated Broker Interface System (ABI), and enhancements of ACE or any other CBP-authorized electronic data interchange system.
(2)
Entry number.
All entry numbers must be furnished to CBP in a CBP approved bar coded readable format in order to assist in the processing of express consignment cargo under the CBP Automated Commercial Environment (ACE) or any other CBP-authorized electronic data interchange system.
(c)
Exception.
Articles specifically exempt from entry by § 141.4(b) of this chapter need not satisfy the general rule as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.
[T.D. 94-51, 59 FR 30294, June 13, 1994, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61287, Oct. 13, 2015]
§ 128.24
Informal entry procedures.
(a)
Eligibility.
Informal entry procedures may generally be used for shipments not exceeding $2,500 in value which are imported by express consignment operators and carriers. Individual shipments valued at $2,500 or less may be consolidated on one entry. Such procedures, however, may not be used for prohibited or restricted merchandise, merchandise which is subject to a quota or other quantitative restraints, or for any articles precluded from informal entry procedures by virtue of section 498, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, (19 U.S.C. 1498).
(b)
Procedures.
CBP Form 3461, or its electronic equivalent, appropriately modified to cover all importations under the special procedures contained in this part, must be submitted prior to the commencement of hub or express consignment carrier facility operations. The party who may make entry under § 143.26 of this chapter may submit a copy of the invoice or the advance manifest as described in § 128.21 in lieu of other control documents.
(c)
Alternative procedure.
The party who may make entry under § 143.26 of this chapter may be required to submit an individual CBP Form 3461, or its electronic equivalent, covering the eligible shipments on a daily basis or by flight basis. Commercial invoices or advance manifests must be attached to the CBP Form 3461, or its electronic equivalent, which will contain the entry number and such other information deemed necessary by the port director. A notation must be placed on the CBP Form 3461 that the entry covers multiple shipments.
(d)
Entry summary.
An entry summary (CBP Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent) must be presented in proper form, and estimated duties deposited within 10 days of the release of the merchandise under either the regular or alternative procedure described in this section. However, see paragraph (e) of this section if the shipment is valued at $800 or less.
(e)
Shipments valued at $800 or less.
Shipments valued at $800 or less meeting the requirements of § 10.151 of this chapter will be passed free of duty and tax. Such shipments must be segregated on the manifest from shipments valued at more than $800 if an advance manifest is used as the entry document, as provided for in § 128.21. If such an advance manifest is used as the
entry document, the following are not required to be provided for shipments qualifying under this paragraph:
(1) The Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) subheading number (see § 128.21(a)(4)); and
(2) An entry summary (see paragraph (d) of this section).
[T.D. 89-53, 54 FR 19566, May 8, 1989, as amended by T.D. 94-51, 59 FR 30294, June 13, 1994; T.D. 95-31, 60 FR 18991, Apr. 14, 1995; T.D. 98-28, 63 FR 16417, Apr. 3, 1998; 77 FR 72720, Dec. 6, 2012; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61287, Oct. 13, 2015; CBP Dec. No. 16-13, 81 FR 58833, Aug. 26, 2016]
§ 128.25
Formal entry procedures.
Formal entry, as provided for under 19 U.S.C. 1484 in parts 141, 142, and 143 (except for subpart C), of this chapter, is required for all shipments exceeding the monetary limitation for informal entry (see § 128.24) and any shipment for which the informal entry procedures may not be used (see § 128.24).
[T.D. 94-51, 59 FR 30295, June 13, 1994]
Pt. 132

# PART 132—QUOTAS
Sec.
132.0
Scope.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
132.1
Definitions.
132.2
Enactment and administration of quotas.
132.3
Observation of official hours.
132.4
Quota quantity entry limits.
132.5
Merchandise imported in excess of quota quantities.
132.6
Exception to reduced rates.

# Subpart B—Administration of Quotas
132.11
Quota priority and status.
132.11a
Time of presentation.
132.12
Procedure on opening of potentially filled quotas.
132.13
Quotas after opening.
132.14
Special permits for immediate delivery; entry of merchandise before presenting entry summary for consumption; permits of delivery.
132.15
Export certificate for beef subject to tariff-rate quota.
132.16
[Reserved]
132.17
Export certificate for sugar-containing products subject to tariff-rate quota.
132.18
License for certain worsted wool fabric subject to tariff-rate quota.

# Subpart C—Mail Importation of Absolute Quota Merchandise
132.21
Regulations applicable.
132.22
When quota is filled.
132.23
Partial release procedure.
132.24
Entry.
132.25
Undeliverable shipment.

# Authority:
19 U.S.C. 66, 1202 (General Note 3(i), Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS)), 1623, 1624.
Sections 132.15, 132.17, and 132.18 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1202 (additional U.S. Note 3 to Chapter 2, HTSUS; additional U.S. Note 8 to Chapter 17, HTSUS; and subchapter II of Chapter 99, HTSUS, respectively), 1484, 1508.

# Source:
T.D. 73-203, 38 FR 20230, July 30, 1973, unless otherwise noted.
§ 132.0
Scope.
This part sets forth rules and procedures applicable to quotas administered by Headquarters, U.S. Customs Service.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 132.1
Definitions.
When used in this part, the following terms shall have the meaning indicated:
(a)
Absolute
(
or quantitative
)
quotas.
“Absolute (or quantitative) quotas” are those which permit a limited number of units of specified merchandise to be entered or withdrawn for consumption during specified periods. Once the quantity permitted under the quota is filled, no further entries or withdrawals for consumption of merchandise subject to quota are permitted. Some absolute quotas limit the entry or withdrawal of merchandise from particular countries (geographic quotas) while others are global quotas and limit the entry or withdrawal of merchandise not by source but by total quantity.
(b)
Tariff-rate quotas.
“Tariff-rate quotas” permit a specified quantity of merchandise to be entered or withdrawn for consumption at a reduced duty rate during a specified period.
(c) [Reserved]
(d)
Presentation.
“Presentation” is the delivery in proper form to the appropriate Customs officer of:
(1) An entry summary for consumption, which shall serve as both the
entry and the entry summary, with estimated duties attached (see § 141.0a(b)); or
(2) An entry summary for consumption, which shall serve as both the entry and the entry summary, without estimated duties attached, if the entry/entry summary information and a valid scheduled statement date (pursuant to § 24.25 of this chapter) have been successfully received by Customs via the Automated Broker Interface; or
(3) A withdrawal for consumption with estimated duties attached.
(e)
Quota-class merchandise.
“Quota-class merchandise” is any imported merchandise subject to limitations under an absolute or a tariff-rate quota.
(f)
Quota priority.
“Quota priority” is the precedence granted to one entry or withdrawal for consumption of quota-class merchandise over other entries or withdrawals of merchandise subject to the same quota.
(g)
Quota status.
“Quota status” is the standing which entitles quota-class merchandise to admission under an absolute quota, or to a reduced rate of duty under a tariff-rate quota, or to any other quota benefit.
[T.D. 73-203, 38 FR 20230, July 30, 1973, as amended by T.D. 79-221, 44 FR 46814, Aug. 9, 1979; T.D. 89-104, 54 FR 50498, Dec. 7, 1989]
§ 132.2
Enactment and administration of quotas.
(a)
Enactment.
Tariff-rate quotas and absolute quotas are established by Presidential proclamations, Executive orders, and legislative enactments. These documents are published in the Customs Bulletin.
(b)
Administration.
Quotas vary by the type of commodity involved, the country of exportation, the period or periods the quota is open and the type of quota. Quotas are divided into two categories: Quotas administered directly by Headquarters, U.S. Customs Service, and quotas administered by other agencies which are enforced by Headquarters, U.S. Customs Service, and which may require special procedures or special documentation in accordance with the regulations and directives of the particular agency involved.
(c)
Strict construction employed.
The terms of a Presidential proclamation, Executive order, or legislative enactment establishing a quota, and the regulations implementing the quota, must be strictly complied with.
§ 132.3
Observation of official hours.
An entry summary for consumption or a withdrawal for consumption for quota-class merchandise shall be presented only during official office hours, except as provided in §§ 132.12 and 141.62(b) of this chapter. For purposes of administering quotas, “official office hours” shall mean 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. in all time zones.
[T.D. 79-221, 44 FR 46814, Aug. 9, 1979]
§ 132.4
Quota quantity entry limits.
At the opening of the quota no importer shall be permitted to present entries or withdrawals for consumption of quota-class merchandise for a quantity in excess of the quantity admissible under the applicable quota.
§ 132.5
Merchandise imported in excess of quota quantities.
(a)
Absolute quota merchandise.
Absolute quota merchandise imported in excess of the quantity admissible under the applicable quota must be disposed of in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Tariff-rate quota merchandise.
Merchandise imported in excess of the quantity admissible at the reduced quota rate under a tariff-rate quota is permitted entry at the higher duty rate. However, it may be disposed of in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Disposition of excess merchandise.
Merchandise imported in excess of either an absolute or a tariff-rate quota may be held for the opening of the next quota period by placing it in a foreign-trade zone or by entering it for warehouse, or it may be exported or destroyed under Customs supervision.
§ 132.6
Exception to reduced rates.
Reduced or modified duty rates under tariff-rate quotas established pursuant to section 350 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended and extended (19 U.S.C. 1351), are not applicable to products imported directly or indirectly from the countries or areas listed under
General Note 3(b), Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202).
[T.D. 73-203, 53 FR 20230, July 30, 1973, as amended by T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51255, Dec. 21, 1988; T.D. 90-78, 55 FR 40166, Oct. 2, 1990]

# Subpart B—Administration of Quotas
§ 132.11
Quota priority and status.
(a)
Determination of quota priority and status.
Quota priority and status are determined as of the time of presentation of the entry summary for consumption, or withdrawal for consumption, in proper form in accordance with § 132.1(d).
(b)
Documentation and deposit of duties in proper form required.
Merchandise covered by an entry summary for consumption, which serves as both the entry and entry summary, or by a withdrawal for consumption, shall be regarded as entered for purposes of quota priority and shall acquire quota status if:
(1) The entry summary or withdrawal for consumption is in proper form, and duties have been attached to the entry summary or withdrawal for consumption in proper form; or
(2) The entry summary for consumption is in proper form, and the entry/entry summary information and a valid scheduled statement date (pursuant to § 24.25 of this chapter) have been successfully received by Customs via the Automated Broker Interface.
See §§ 141.4, 141.63, 141.68, 141.69, and 141.101 of this chapter.
(c)
Informal entries.
Mail entries or informal entries shall be regarded as presented for purposes of quota priority when all requirements have been met for the preparation of such an entry.
(d)
Premature presentation of entry or withdrawal.
Quota status will not attach to merchandise in a quota period by reason of the presentation of an entry or withdrawal for consumption at any time prior to the opening of that period.
[T.D. 73-203, 38 FR 20230, July 30, 1973, as amended by T.D. 79-221, 44 FR 46814, Aug. 9, 1979; T.D. 89-104, 54 FR 50498, Dec. 7, 1989]
§ 132.11a
Time of presentation.
(a)
General rule.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the time of presentation of an entry/entry summary for quota purposes shall be the time of delivery in proper form of:
(1) An entry summary for consumption, or its electronic equivalent, which serves as both the entry and the entry summary, with estimated duties attached; or
(2) An entry summary for consumption, or its electronic equivalent, which shall serve as both the entry and the entry summary without estimated duties attached, if the entry/entry summary information and a valid scheduled statement date have been successfully received by Customs via the Automated Broker Interface (see § 132.1(d)(2); payment must be subsequently made by the statement processing method as set forth in § 24.25 of this chapter); or
(3) A withdrawal for consumption with estimated duties attached.
(b)
Before arrival of merchandise.
The entry summary for consumption, without estimated duties attached, may be submitted for preliminary review before the merchandise arrives within the limits of the port where entry is to be made. In that case, the time of presentation of the entry summary for consumption shall be the time estimated duties are deposited after the importing carrier arrives within the port limits.
(c)
Failure to use statement processing method.
If presentation is chosen to be made pursuant to § 132.11a(a)(2) and payment is not made as required through the statement processing method, the Center director may require filing of an entry summary for consumption with estimated duties attached as described in § 132.11(a)(1) for future filings.
[T.D. 79-221, 44 FR 46814, Aug. 9, 1979, as amended by T.D. 89-104, 54 FR 50498, Dec. 7, 1989; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61287, Oct. 13, 2015; CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93017, Dec. 20, 2016]
§ 132.12
Procedure on opening of potentially filled quotas.
(a)
Preliminary review before opening.
When it is anticipated that a quota will
be filled at the opening of the quota period, entry summaries for consumption, or withdrawals for consumption, with estimated duties attached, shall not be presented before 12 noon Eastern Standard Time in all time zones. However, an entry summary for consumption, or withdrawal for consumption, for merchandise which has arrived within the Customs territory of the United States may be submitted for preliminary review without deposit of estimated duties within a time period before the opening approved by the Center director. Submission of these documents before opening will not accord the merchandise quota priority or status.
(b)
Simultaneous presentation.
Special arrangements shall be made so that all entry summaries for consumption, or withdrawals for consumption, for quota merchandise may be presented at the exact moment of the opening of the quota in all time zones. All importers prepared to present entry summaries for consumption, or withdrawals for consumption, when the quota opens shall be given equal opportunity to do so. All entry summaries for consumption, or withdrawals for consumption, presented in proper form (including those submitted for review before opening of the quota period if accompanied by the deposit of estimated duties) shall be considered to have been presented simultaneously.
(c)
Proration of quantities.
(1) The quantities on all entry summaries for consumption, or withdrawals for consumption, submitted simultaneously shall be prorated by Headquarters against the quota quantity admissible to determine the percentage to be allocated to each importer under the quota. Merchandise in excess of the quota shall be disposed of in accordance with § 132.5.
(2) In the event a quota is prorated, entry summaries for consumption, or withdrawals for consumption, with estimated duties attached, shall be returned to the importer for adjustment. The time of presentation for quota purposes, in that event, shall be the exact moment of the opening of the quota provided:
(i) An adjusted entry summary for consumption, or withdrawal for consumption, with estimated duties attached, is deposited within 5 working days after Headquarters authorizes release of the merchandise, and
(ii) The importer takes delivery of the merchandise within 15 working days after release is authorized.
[T.D. 79-221, 44 FR 46814, Aug. 9, 1979, as amended by CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93017, Dec. 20, 2016]
§ 132.13
Quotas after opening.
(a)
Procedure when nearing fulfillment.
To secure for each importer the rightful quota priority and status for his quota-class merchandise, and to close the quota simultaneously at all ports of entry:
(1)
For release of merchandise
—(i)
Tariff-rate.
When instructed by Headquarters, the Center director shall require an importer to present an entry summary for consumption, or its electronic equivalent, with estimated duties attached, at the over-quota rate of duty until Headquarters has determined the quantity, if any of the merchandise entitled to the quota rate. If any of the merchandise entered at the over-quota rate is entitled to the quota rate, Customs shall amend the entry summary and refund to the importer any excess duties paid. This section does not prohibit an importer from obtaining release of the merchandise under the immediate delivery procedure. If an importer desires to enter only that quantity entitled to the quota rate, he may request that the merchandise not be released from Customs custody until Headquarters has determined the quantity entitled to the quota rate.
(ii)
Absolute.
Except as provided for in § 142.21 (e)(2) and (g) of this chapter, absolute quota merchandise shall not be released under the immediate delivery procedure. An entry summary for consumption, or its electronic equivalent, with estimated duties attached, setting forth the quantity desired to be entered, shall be presented to CBP, either at the port of entry or electronically. However, the merchandise shall not be released until Customs has determined the quantity entitled to absolute quota status and priority.
(iii)
Quota Proration.
When it is determined that entry summaries for consumption or withdrawals for consumption must be amended to permit only the quantity of tariff-rate and absolute quota merchandise determined to be within the quota, the entry summaries for consumption or withdrawals for consumption must be returned to the importer for adjustment. The time of presentation for quota purposes in that event shall be the same as the time of the initial presentation of the entry summaries for consumption or withdrawals for consumption or their electronic equivalents, provided:
(A) An adjusted entry summary for consumption, or withdrawals for consumption, or their electronic equivalents, with estimated duties attached, is deposited within 5 working days after Headquarters authorizes release of the merchandise, and
(B) The importer takes delivery of the merchandise within 15 working days after release is authorized.
(2)
Report of time of presentation.
The date, hour and minute that an entry summary for consumption or withdrawal for consumption, or their electronic equivalents, is presented to CBP, either at the port of entry or electronically must be indicated on the document by a method deemed acceptable by Customs. The appropriate Customs officer shall report this information to Headquarters.
(b)
Closing of the quota.
Except as provided by § 132.12, at the closing of a quota all entries or withdrawals for consumption which have acquired quota status due to priority of presentation shall be entitled to quota benefits. All other entries or withdrawals are without quota status and are not entitled to any quota benefits. All the latter shall be disposed of in accordance with § 132.5.
[T.D. 73-203, 38 FR 20230, July 30, 1973, as amended by T.D. 79-221, 44 FR 46815, Aug. 9, 1979; T.D. 80-26, 45 FR 3901, Jan. 21, 1980; T.D. 81-260, 46 FR 49841, Oct. 8, 1981; T.D. 88-27, 53 FR 19897, June 1, 1988; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61287, Oct. 13, 2015; CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93017, Dec. 20, 2016]
§ 132.14
Special permits for immediate delivery; entry of merchandise before presenting entry summary for consumption; permits of delivery.
(a)
Effect of issuance of special permit for immediate delivery or filing entry documentation before presentation of entry summary
—(1)
Requirements for release.
Quota-class merchandise shall not be released upon filing entry documentation before the proper presentation of an entry summary for consumption, or a withdrawal for consumption, pursuant to § 132.1 of this part. However, quota-class merchandise may be released under a special permit for immediate delivery in accordance with § 142.21(e) of this chapter.
(2)
Effect of release under immediate delivery.
Release of quota-class merchandise under a special permit for immediate delivery before proper presentation of an entry summary for consumption, or a withdrawal for consumption, pursuant to § 132.1 of this part, shall not accord merchandise any quota priority or status or entitle it to any other quota benefit.
(3)
Effect of inadvertent release.
Inadvertent release under a special permit for immediate delivery, or upon filing entry documentation, before proper presentation of an entry summary for consumption, or a withdrawal for consumption, pursuant to § 132.1 of this part, shall not accord the merchandise any quota priority or status or entitle it to any other quota benefit.
(4)
Procedures following inadvertent release
—(i)
Quota nearing fulfillment.
If quota-class merchandise is released inadvertently under a special permit for immediate delivery, or under entry documentation, before the proper presentation of an entry summary for consumption, or a withdrawal for consumption, pursuant to § 132.1 of this part, and the quota is nearing fulfillment:
(A) An authorized CBP official may demand the return to Customs custody of the released merchandise in accordance with § 141.113 of this chapter;
(B) The Center director shall require the timely presentation to CBP, either at the port of entry or electronically, of the entry summary for consumption, or a withdrawal for consumption, with the estimated duties attached;
(C) The port director may assess liquidated damages under the bond on Customs Form 301, containing the basic importation and entry bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter in an amount equal to the value of the merchandise, plus estimated duties (computed at the over-quota rate for tariff-rate quota merchandise), if the merchandise is (
1
) released before presentation of an entry summary for consumption or a withdrawal for consumption, with estimated duties attached; (
2
) the merchandise is not returned to Customs custody within 30 days from the date of demand for redelivery; or (
3
) the entry summary for consumption, or the withdrawal for consumption, with estimated duties attached, is not presented timely; and
(D) The Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer may cancel the claim for liquidated damages if he is satisfied by the evidence that release was due to causes wholly beyond the control of the importer, that no act or omission on the part of the importer formed the basis for the release, and that there was no intent on the part of the importer to evade any law or regulation. The port director also may cancel the claim for liquidated damages if the merchandise is redelivered to Customs custody within 30 days from the date of the demand, or if the entry summary for consumption, or withdrawal for consumption, with estimated duties attached, is presented timely.
(ii)
Quota not nearing fulfillment.
If quota-class merchandise is released inadvertently under a special permit for immediate delivery, or under entry documentation, before the proper presentation of an entry summary for consumption, or a withdrawal for consumption, pursuant to § 132.1 of this part, and the quota is not nearing fulfillment:
(A) The Center director shall require the timely presentation to CBP, either at the port of entry or electronically, of the entry summary for consumption, or a withdrawal for consumption, with estimated duties attached;
(B) The port director may assess liquidated damages under the bond on Customs Form 301, containing the basic importation and entry bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter in an amount equal to the value of the merchandise, plus estimated duties (computed at the over quota-rate for tariff-rate quota merchandise), if the merchandise is:
(
1
) Released before presentation of an entry summary for consumption, or a withdrawal for consumption, with estimated duties attached; or
(
2
) If the entry summary for consumption, or the withdrawal for consumption with estimated duties attached, is not presented timely; and
(C) The Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer may cancel the claim for liquidated damages if he is satisfied by the evidence that the release was due to causes wholly beyond the control of the importer, that no act or omission on the part of the importer formed the basis for release, and that there was no intent on the part of the importer to evade any law or regulation. The port director also may cancel the claim for liquidated damages if the entry summary for consumption, or withdrawal for consumption, with estimated duties attached, is presented timely.
(b)
Permit of delivery
—(1)
Effect of filing.
The issuance of a permit of delivery shall not accord the merchandise any quota priority or status nor entitle it to any other quota benefit.
(2)
Time of issuance
—(i)
Absolute quota merchandise.
A permit of delivery for merchandise subject to an absolute quota shall not be issued before a determination of the quota status of the merchandise.
(ii)
Tariff-rate, quota merchandise.
A permit delivery for merchandise subject to a tariff-rate quota shall not be issued before a determination of the quota status of the merchandise unless estimated duties are deposited at the over-quota rate of duty.
(R.S. 251, as amended, secs. 623, as amended, 624, 46 Stat. 759, as amended (19 U.S.C. 66, 1623, 1624))
[T.D. 79-221, 44 FR 46815, Aug. 9, 1979, as amended by T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41183, Oct. 19, 1984; T.D. 89-104, 54 FR 50498, Dec. 7, 1989; T.D. 99-27, 64 FR 13674, 13675, Mar. 22, 1999; CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93018, Dec. 20, 2016]
§ 132.15
Export certificate for beef subject to tariff-rate quota.
(a)
Requirement.
In order to claim the in-quota tariff rate of duty on beef, defined in 15 CFR 2012.2(a), that is the product of a participating country, defined in 15 CFR 2012.2(e), the importer must possess a valid export certificate at the time that such beef is entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption. The importer must record the unique identifying number of the export certificate for the beef on the entry summary or warehouse withdrawal for consumption (Customs Form 7501, Column 34), or its electronic equivalent.
(b)
Validity of certificate.
The export certificate, to be valid, must meet the requirements of 15 CFR 2012.3(b), and with respect to the requirement of 15 CFR 2012.3(b)(3) that the certificate be distinct and uniquely identifiable, the certificate must have a distinct and unique identifying number composed of three elements set forth in the following order:
(1) The last digit of the year for which the export certificate is in effect;
(2) The 2-digit ISO country of origin code from Annex B of the HTSUS which identifies the participating country (see § 142.42(d) of this chapter); and
(3) Any 6-digit number issued by the participating country with respect to the export certificate.
(c)
Retention and submission of certificate to Customs
—(1)
Retention.
The export certificate must be retained by the importer for a period of at least 5 years from the date of entry, or withdrawal from warehouse, for consumption (see § 163.4(a) of this chapter).
(2)
Submission to Customs.
The importer shall submit a copy of the export certificate to Customs upon request.
[T.D. 95-58, 60 FR 39109, Aug. 1, 1995, as amended by T.D. 99-87, 64 FR 67483, Dec. 2, 1999; T.D. 00-7, 65 FR 5431, Feb. 4, 2000]
§ 132.16
[Reserved]
§ 132.17
Export certificate for sugar-containing products subject to tariff-rate quota.
(a)
Requirement.
For sugar-containing products defined in 15 CFR 2015.2(a), and as described in paragraph 15 of Appendix 2, Tariff Schedule of the United States—(Tariff Rate Quotas), to Annex 2-B of Chapter 2 of the Agreement Between the United States of America, the United Mexican States, and Canada (USMCA), for which preferential tariff treatment is claimed under the USMCA, and that are products of a participating country, as defined in 15 CFR 2015.2(e), the importer must possess a valid export certificate in order to claim the in-quota tariff rate of duty on the products at the time they are entered or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption. The importer must record the unique identifier of the export certificate for these products on the entry summary or warehouse withdrawal for consumption (Customs Form 7501, column 34), or its electronic equivalent.
(b)
Validity of export certificate.
To be valid, the export certificate must meet the requirements of 15 CFR 2015.3(b), and with respect to the requirement of 15 CFR 2015.3(b)(3) that the certificate have a distinct and uniquely identifiable number, this unique identifier must consist of 8 characters in any alpha/numeric combination.
(c)
Retention and production of certificate to Customs.
The export certificate is subject to the recordkeeping requirements of part 163 of this chapter (19 CFR part 163). Specifically, the certificate must be retained for a period of 5 years in accordance with § 163.4(a) of this chapter, and must be made available to Customs upon request in accordance with § 163.6(a) of this chapter.
[T.D. 00-7, 65 FR 5431, Feb. 4, 2000, as amended by CBP Dec. 21-10, 86 FR 35582, July 7, 2021]
§ 132.18
License for certain worsted wool fabric subject to tariff-rate quota.
(a)
Requirement.
For worsted wool fabric that is entered under HTSUS subheading 9902.51.11 or 9902.51.12, the importer must possess a valid license,
or a written authorization from the licensee, pursuant to regulations of the U.S. Department of Commerce (15 CFR 335.5), in order to claim the in-quota rate of duty on the worsted wool fabric at the time it is entered or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption. The importer must record the distinct and unique 9-character number for the license covering the worsted wool fabric on the entry summary or warehouse withdrawal for consumption (Customs Form 7501, column 34), or its electronic equivalent (see paragraph (c)(1) of this section).
(b)
Importer certification.
By entering the worsted wool fabric under HTSUS subheading 9902.51.11 or 9902.51.12, the importer thus certifies that the worsted wool fabric is suitable for use in making suits, suit-type jackets, or trousers, as required under these subheadings.
(c)
Validity of license
—(1)
License number.
To be valid, the license, or written authorization issued under the license and including its unique control number, must meet the requirements of 15 CFR 335.5, and with respect to the requirement in 15 CFR 335.5(a) that the license have a unique control number, the license must have a distinct and unique identifying number consisting of 9 characters comprised of the following three elements:
(i) The first character must be a “W”;
(ii) The second and third characters must consist of the last 2 digits of the calendar year for which the license is issued and during which it is in effect; and
(iii) The final 6 characters represent the distinct and unique identifier assigned to the license by the Department of Commerce.
(2)
Use of license.
A license covering worsted wool fabric that is entered under HTSUS subheading 9902.51.11 or 9902.51.12 is in effect, and may be used to obtain the applicable in-quota rate of duty for fabric that is entered or withdrawn for consumption, only during the specific calendar year (January 1—December 31, inclusive) for which the license is issued (see 15 CFR 335.2 and 335.5(b) and (d)).
(d)
Retention and production of license or authorization to Customs.
The license and any written authorization from the licensee to the importer are subject to the recordkeeping requirements of part 163 of this chapter (19 CFR part 163). Specifically, the license and any written authorization must be retained for a period of 5 years in accordance with § 163.4(a) of this chapter, and must be made available to Customs upon request in accordance with § 163.6(a) of this chapter.
[T.D. 01-35, 66 FR 21666, May 1, 2001]

# Subpart C—Mail Importation of Absolute Quota Merchandise
§ 132.21
Regulations applicable.
In addition to the regulations applicable to all mail importations (see part 145 of this chapter), the regulations in this subpart shall apply to mail importations of absolute quota merchandise.
§ 132.22
When quota is filled.
Any packages containing merchandise subject to an absolute quota which is filled shall be returned to the postmaster for return to the sender immediately as undeliverable mail. The addressee will be notified on Customs Form 3509 or in any other appropriate manner that entry has been denied because the quota is filled.
§ 132.23
Partial release procedure.
(a)
Notification of quota restrictions.
If because of quota restrictions, a mail importation cannot be released, the director of the port of destination shall notify the addressee on Customs Form 3509 of the procedure required by paragraph (b) of this section, and shall inform the addressee that upon return of the Acknowledgement of Delivery by Postal Service, the packages admissible under the absolute quota will be forwarded to him and the restricted packages will be returned to the sender as inadmissible. The port director may at his discretion hold packages if it appears that the absolute quota will reopen in less than 30 days.
(b)
Acknowledgement of delivery.
An Acknowledgement of Delivery by Postal Service shall be sent to the addressee. He shall be advised that if he desires to secure release of less than the total number of packages of the
merchandise, the Acknowledgement of Delivery by Postal Service must be signed by him and returned to the port director. Such Acknowledgment of Delivery by Postal Service shall be in the following form:

# Acknowledgment of
Delivery by Postal Service
In consideration of the fact that certain articles in a mail importation consisting of
(state number) packages mailed to me by ________________________ (name of sender) of ____________________________ (address) on ________________ (date of mailing), are subject to quota restrictions under which only a portion of such articles may be admitted to entry at one time, and the Postal Service permits no division of the importation before delivery thereof, and since I am desirous of receiving the packages of such importation which are admissible to entry under the quota administered by the United States Customs, I hereby agree and acknowledge that delivery of the package or packages to the United States Customs shall be regarded as delivery by the Postal Service to me.
(Signature of addressee)
(c)
Agreement to less than full delivery.
If, in any case, the sender of a mail package has indicated his agreement to the delivery of less than the entire importation at one time, an Acknowledgment of Delivery by Postal Service need not be secured from the addressee.
(d)
Deposit required.
If a portion of a mail shipment may be released, the port director may require a deposit of an amount sufficient to defray the expenses of repacking merchandise for shipment by mail to the addressee. The shipment shall be under Government frank without new postage.
§ 132.24
Entry.
Unless a formal entry or entry by appraisement is required, a mail entry on Customs Form 3419 shall be issued and forwarded with the package to the postmaster for delivery to the addressee and collection of any duties in the same manner as for any other mail package subject to Customs treatment.
§ 132.25
Undeliverable shipment.
If within a reasonable time, but not to exceed 30 days, the addressee fails to indicate to the port director an intention to receive delivery of the packages or a portion thereof in accordance with the notice on Customs Form 3509 which was sent to him by the port director, the importation shall be treated in the same manner as other undeliverable mail.
Pt. 133

# PART 133—TRADEMARKS, TRADE NAMES, AND COPYRIGHTS
Sec.
133.0
Scope.

# Subpart A—Recordation of Trademarks
133.1
Recordation of trademarks.
133.2
Application to record trademark.
133.3
Documents and fee to accompany application.
133.4
Effective date, term, and cancellation of trademark recordation and renewals.
133.5
Change of ownership of recorded trademark.
133.6
Change in name of owner of recorded trademark.
133.7
Renewal of trademark recordation.

# Subpart B—Recordation of Trade Names
133.11
Trade names eligible for recordation.
133.12
Application to record a trade name.
133.13
Documents and fee to accompany application.
133.14
Publication of trade name recordation.
133.15
Term of CBP trade name recordation.

# Subpart C—Importations Bearing Recorded Marks or Trade Names
133.21
Articles bearing counterfeit trademarks.
133.22
Restrictions on importation of articles bearing copying or simulating trademarks.
133.23
Restrictions on importation of gray market articles.
133.24
Restrictions on articles accompanying importer and mail importations.
133.25
Procedure on detention of articles subject to restriction.
133.26
Demand for redelivery of released merchandise.
133.27
Civil fines for those involved in the importation of merchandise bearing a counterfeit mark.

# Subpart D—Recordation of Copyrights
133.31
Recordation of copyrighted works.
133.32
Application to record copyright.
133.33
Documents and fee to accompany application.
133.34
Effective date, term, and cancellation of recordation.
133.35
Change of ownership of recorded copyright.
133.36
Change in name of owner of recorded copyright.
133.37
Renewal of copyright recordation.

# Subpart E—Importations Violating Copyright Laws
133.41
[Reserved]
133.42
Piratical articles; Unlawful copies or phonorecords of recorded copyrighted works.
133.43-133.45
[Reserved]
133.46
Demand for redelivery of released articles.

# Subpart F—Enforcement of the Prohibition on Importation of Merchandise Capable of Circumventing Technological Measures for Protection of Copyright
133.47
Articles suspected of violating the Digital Millennium Copyright Act.
133.48
Demand for redelivery of released articles.

# Subpart G—Procedure Following Forfeiture or Assessment of Liquidated Damages
133.51
Relief from forfeiture or liquidated damages.
133.52
Disposition of forfeited merchandise.
133.53
Refund of duty.

# Subpart H—Donations of Intellectual Property Rights Technology and Related Support Services
133.61
Donations of intellectual property rights technology and related support services.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 1124, 1125, 1127; 17 U.S.C. 101, 104, 106, 601, 602, 603; 18 U.S.C. 1905; 19 U.S.C. 66, 1202, 1499, 1526, 1595a, 1623, 1624, 1628a; 31 U.S.C. 9701.
Section 133.47 also issued under 17 U.S.C. 1201.
Section 133.61 also issued under Sec. 308(d), Pub. L. 114-125; Sec. 507, Pub. L. 108-90; Sec. 2, Pub. L. 114-279.

# Source:
T.D. 72-266, 37 FR 20678, Oct. 3, 1972, unless otherwise noted.
§ 133.0
Scope.
This part provides for the recordation of trademarks, trade names, and copyrights with the U.S. Customs and Border Protection for the purpose of prohibiting the importation of certain articles. It also sets forth the procedures for the disposition, including release to the importer in appropriate circumstances, of articles bearing prohibited marks or names, piratical articles, and prohibited circumvention devices, as well as the disclosure of information concerning such articles when such disclosure would not compromise an ongoing law enforcement investigation or national security.
[T.D. 72-266, 37 FR 20678, Oct. 3, 1972, as amended by CBP Dec. 24-03, 89 FR 52373, June 24, 2024]

# Subpart A—Recordation of Trademarks
§ 133.1
Recordation of trademarks.
(a)
Eligible trademarks.
Trademarks registered by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office under the Trademark Act of March 3, 1881, the Trademark Act of February 20, 1905, or the Trademark Act of 1946 (15 U.S.C. 1051
et seq.
) except those registered on the supplemental register under the 1946 Act (15 U.S.C. 1096), may be recorded with the U.S. Customs and Border Protection if the registration is current.
(b)
Notice of recordation and other action.
Applicants and recordants will be notified of the approval or denial of an application filed in accordance with §§ 133.2, 133.5, 133.6, and 133.7 of this subpart.
[T.D. 72-266, 37 FR 20678, Oct. 3, 1972, as amended by T.D. 91-77, 56 FR 46115, Sept. 10, 1991]
§ 133.2
Application to record trademark.
An application to record one or more trademarks shall be in writing, addressed to the Intellectual Property Rights (IPR)
Restricted Merchandise Branch, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, 1300 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20229, and shall include the following information:
(a) The name, complete business address, and citizenship of the trademark owner or owners (if a partnership, the citizenship of each partner; if an association or corporation the State, country, or other political jurisdiction within which it was organized, incorporated, or created);
(b) The places of manufacture of goods bearing the recorded trademark;
(c) The name and principal business address of each foreign person or business entity authorized or licensed to use the trademark and a statement as to the use authorized; and
(d) The identity of any parent or subsidiary company or other foreign company under common ownership or control which uses the trademark abroad. For this purpose:
(1)
Common ownership
means individual or aggregate ownership of more than 50 percent of the business entity; and
(2)
Common control
means effective control in policy and operations and is not necessarily synonymous with common ownership.
(e)
Lever-rule protection.
For owners of U.S. trademarks who desire protection against gray market articles on the basis of physical and material differences (see
Lever Bros. Co. v. United States,
981 F.2d 1330 (D.C. Cir. 1993)), a description of any physical and material difference between the specific articles authorized for importation or sale in the United States and those not so authorized. In each instance, owners who assert that physical and material differences exist must state the basis for such a claim with particularity, and must support such assertions by competent evidence and provide summaries of physical and material differences for publication. CBP determination of physical and material differences may include, but is not limited to, considerations of:
(1) The specific composition of both the authorized and gray market product(s) (including chemical composition);
(2) Formulation, product construction, structure, or composite product components, of both the authorized and gray market product;
(3) Performance and/or operational characteristics of both the authorized and gray market product;
(4) Differences resulting from legal or regulatory requirements, certification, etc.;
(5) Other distinguishing and explicitly defined factors that would likely result in consumer deception or confusion as proscribed under applicable law.
(f) CBP will publish in the Customs Bulletin a notice listing any trademark(s) and the specific products for which gray market protection for physically and materially different products has been requested. CBP will examine the request(s) before issuing a determination whether gray market protection is granted. For parties requesting protection, the application for trademark protection will not take effect until CBP has made and issued this determination. If protection is granted, CBP will publish in the Customs Bulletin a notice that a trademark will receive
Lever
-rule protection with regard to a specific product.
[T.D. 72-266, 37 FR 20678, Oct. 3, 1972, as amended by T.D. 91-77, 56 FR 46115, Sept. 10, 1991; T.D. 99-21, 64 FR 9062, Feb. 24, 1999; T.D. 99-27, 64 FR 13675, Mar. 22, 1999]
§ 133.3
Documents and fee to accompany application.
(a)
Documents.
The application shall be accompanied by:
(1) A status copy of the certificate of registration certified by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office showing title to be presently in the name of the applicant; and
(2) Five copies of this certificate, or of a U.S. Patent and Trademark Office facsimile. The copies may be reproduced privately and shall be on paper approximately 8″ × 10
1/2
″ in size. If the certificate consists of two or more pages, the copies may be reproduced on both sides of the paper.
(b)
Fee.
The application shall be accompanied by a fee of $190 for each trademark to be recorded. However, if the trademark is registered for more than one class of goods (based on the class, or classes, first stated on the certificate of registration, without consideration of any class, or classes, also stated in parentheses) the fee for recordation shall be $190 for each class for which the applicant desires to record the trademark with the United States Customs Service. For example, to secure recordation of a trademark registered for three classes of goods, a fee of $570 is payable. A check or money
order shall be made payable to the United States Customs Service.
[T.D. 72-266, 37 FR 20678, Oct. 3, 1972, as amended by T.D. 73-174, 38 FR 16850, June 27, 1973; T.D. 75-160, 40 FR 28790, July 9, 1975; T.D. 84-133, 49 FR 26571, June 28, 1984; T.D. 91-77, 56 FR 46115, Sept. 10, 1991]
§ 133.4
Effective date, term, and cancellation of trademark recordation and renewals.
(a)
Effective date.
Recordation of trademark and protection thereunder shall be effective on the date an application for recordation is approved, as shown on the recordation notice issued by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection instructing U.S. Customs and Border Protection Officers as to the terms and conditions of import protection appropriate.
(b)
Term.
The recordation or renewal of an existing recordation of a trademark shall remain in force concurrently with the 20-year current registration period or last renewal thereof in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.
(c)
Cancellation of recordation.
Recordation of a trademark with the U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall be canceled if the trademark registration is finally canceled or revoked.
[T.D. 72-266, 37 FR 20678, Oct. 3, 1972, as amended by T.D. 91-77, 56 FR 46115, Sept. 10, 1991]
§ 133.5
Change of ownership of recorded trademark.
If there is a change in ownership of a recorded trademark and the new owner wishes to continue the recordation with the United States Customs Service, he shall apply therefor by:
(a) Complying with § 133.2;
(b) Describing any time limit on the rights of ownership transferred;
(c) Submitting a status copy of the certificate of registration certified by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office showing title to be presently in the name of the new owner; and
(d) Paying a fee of $80, which covers all trademarks included in the application which have been previously recorded with the United States Customs Service. A check or money order shall be made payable to the United States Customs Service.
[T.D. 72-266, 37 FR 20678, Oct. 3, 1972, as amended by T.D. 75-160, 40 FR 28791, July 9, 1975; T.D. 91-77, 56 FR 46115, Sept. 10, 1991]
§ 133.6
Change in name of owner of recorded trademark.
If there is a change in the name of the owner of a recorded trademark, but no change in ownership, written notice thereof shall be given to the IPR
Restricted Merchandise Branch, CBP Headquarters, accompanied by:
(a) A status copy of the certificate of registration certified by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office showing title to be presently in the name as changed; and
(b) A fee of $80, which covers all trademarks included in the application which have been previously recorded with the U.S. Customs and Border Protection. A check or money order shall be made payable to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
[T.D. 72-266, 37 FR 20678, Oct. 3, 1972, as amended by T.D. 75-160, 40 FR 28791, July 9, 1975; T.D. 91-77, 56 FR 46115, Sept. 10, 1991]
§ 133.7
Renewal of trademark recordation.
(a)
Application to renew.
To continue uninterrupted CBP protection for trademarks, the trademark owner shall submit a written application to renew CBP recordation to the IPR
Restricted Merchandise Branch not later than 3 months after the date of expiration of the current 20-year trademark registration issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. A timely application to renew a CBP recordation must include the following:
(1) A status copy of the certificate of registration certified by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office showing renewal of the trademark and title to be in the name of the applicant;
(2) A statement describing any change of ownership or in the name of owner, in compliance with §§ 133.5 and 133.6 of this part, and any change of addresses of owners or places of manufacture; and
(3) A fee of $80 for each renewal of a trademark recordation. Where the trademark covers several classes, a fee of $80 is required for each class. A
check or money order shall be made payable to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
(b)
Delayed application.
Upon request made during the grace period of 3 months afforded by paragraph (a) of this section, a trademark owner whose application for renewal of recordation is unavoidably delayed may be afforded a reasonable extended period within which to comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. The request shall be in writing, addressed to the IPR
Restricted Merchandise Branch, and shall set forth the circumstances due to which application is delayed.
(c)
Untimely application.
Failure of the trademark owner to submit a renewal application within the 3-month grace period afforded in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section or within an extension of time granted in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, shall deprive the trademark owner of the renewal process. A delinquent applicant will be required to apply anew to record the renewed trademark in accordance with the procedures and requirements of §§ 133.2 and 133.3.
[T.D. 72-266, 37 FR 20678, Oct. 3, 1972, as amended by T.D. 75-160, 40 FR 28791, July 9, 1975; T.D. 91-77, 56 FR 46115, Sept. 10, 1991]

# Subpart B—Recordation of Trade Names
§ 133.11
Trade names eligible for recordation.
The name or trade style used for at least 6 months to identify a manufacturer or trader may be recorded with the United States Customs Service. Words or designs used as trademarks, whether or not registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office shall not be accepted for recordation as a trade name. Generally, the complete business name will be recorded unless convincing proof establishes that only a part of the complete name is customarily used.
[T.D. 72-266, 37 FR 20678, Oct. 3, 1972, as amended by T.D. 91-77, 56 FR 46115, Sept. 10, 1991]
§ 133.12
Application to record a trade name.
An application to record a trade name shall be in writing addressed to the IPR
Restricted Merchandise Branch, 1300 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20229, and shall include the following information:
(a) The name, complete business address, and citizenship of the trade name owner or owners (if a partnership, the citizenship of each partner; if an association or corporation, the State, country, or other political jurisdiction within which it was organized, incorporated or created);
(b) The name or trade style to be recorded;
(c) The name and principal business address of each foreign person or business entity authorized or licensed to use the trade name and a statement as to the use authorized;
(d) The identity of any parent or subsidiary company, or other foreign company under common ownership or control which uses the trade name abroad (see § 133.2(d)); and
(e) A description of the merchandise with which the trade name is associated.
[T.D. 72-266, 37 FR 20678, Oct. 3, 1972, as amended by T.D. 91-77, 56 FR 46115, Sept. 10, 1991; T.D. 99-27, 64 FR 13675, Mar. 22, 1999]
§ 133.13
Documents and fee to accompany application.
(a)
Documents.
The application shall be accompanied by a statement of the owner, partners, or principal corporate officer, and by statements by at least two other persons not associated with or related to the applicant but having actual knowledge of the facts, stating that to his best knowledge and belief:
(1) The applicant has used the trade name in connection with the class or kind of merchandise described in the application for at least 6 months;
(2) The trade name is not identical or confusingly similar to any other trade name or registered trademark used in connection with such class or kind of merchandise; and
(3) The applicant has the sole and exclusive right to the use of such trade name in connection with the merchandise of that class or kind.
(b)
Fee.
The application shall be accompanied by a fee of $190 for each trade name to be recorded. A check or money order shall be made payable to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
[T.D. 72-266, 37 FR 20678, Oct. 3, 1972, as amended by T.D. 75-160, 40 FR 28791, July 9, 1975]
§ 133.14
Publication of trade name recordation.
(a)
Notice of tentative recordation.
Notice of tentative recordation of a trade name shall be published in the
Federal Register
and the Customs Bulletin. The notice shall specify a procedure and a time period within which interested parties may oppose the recordation.
(b)
Notice of final action.
After consideration of any claims, rebuttals, and other relevant evidence, notice of final approval or disapproval of the application shall be published in the
Federal Register
and the Customs Bulletin.
§ 133.15
Term of CBP trade name recordation.
Protection for a recorded trade name shall remain in force as long as the trade name is used. The recordation shall be canceled upon request of the recordant or upon evidence of disuse. From time to time, the IPR
Restricted Merchandise Branch may request the trade name owner to advise whether the name is still in use. The failure of a trade name owner to respond to such a request shall be regarded as evidence of disuse.
[T.D. 72-266, 37 FR 20678, Oct. 3, 1972, as amended by T.D. 91-77, 56 FR 46115, Sept. 10, 1991]

# Subpart C—Importations Bearing Recorded Marks or Trade Names

# Source:
T.D. 99-21, 64 FR 9062, Feb. 24, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 133.21
Articles suspected of bearing counterfeit marks.
(a)
Counterfeit mark defined.
A “counterfeit mark” is a spurious mark that is identical with, or substantially indistinguishable from, a mark registered on the Principal Register of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.
(b)
Detention, notice, and disclosure of information
—(1)
Detention period.
CBP may detain any article of domestic or foreign manufacture imported into the United States that bears a mark suspected by CBP of being a counterfeit version of a mark that is registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and is recorded with CBP pursuant to subpart A of this part. The detention will be for a period of up to 30 days from the date on which the merchandise is presented for examination. In accordance with 19 U.S.C. 1499(c), if, after the detention period, the article is not released, the article will be deemed excluded for the purposes of 19 U.S.C. 1514(a)(4).
(2)
Notice of detention to importer and disclosure to owner of the recorded mark
—(i)
Notice and seven business day response period.
Within five business days from the date of a decision to detain suspect merchandise, CBP will notify the importer in writing of the detention as set forth in § 151.16(c) of this chapter and 19 U.S.C. 1499. CBP will also inform the importer that for purposes of assisting CBP in determining whether the detained merchandise bears counterfeit marks:
(A) CBP may have previously disclosed to the owner of the recorded mark, prior to issuance of the notice of detention, limited importation information concerning the detained merchandise, as described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, and, in any event, such information may be released to the owner of the recorded mark, if available, no later than the date of issuance of the notice of detention; and
(B) CBP may disclose to the owner of the recorded mark information that appears on the detained merchandise and/or its retail packaging, including unredacted photographs, images, or samples, as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, unless the importer presents information within seven business days of the notification establishing that the detained merchandise does not bear a counterfeit mark.
(ii)
Failure of importer to respond or insufficient response to notice.
Where the importer does not provide information
within the seven business day response period, or the information is insufficient for CBP to determine that the merchandise does not bear a counterfeit mark, CBP will proceed with the disclosure of information as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section to the owner of the recorded mark if CBP concludes that the disclosure would assist CBP in its determination, and provided that the disclosure would not compromise an ongoing law enforcement investigation or national security. CBP will notify the importer in case of any such disclosure.
(3)
Disclosure to owner of the recorded mark of information appearing on detained merchandise and/or its retail packaging, including unredacted photographs, images or samples.
CBP will disclose information appearing on the merchandise and/or its retail packaging (including labels) and images (including photographs) of the merchandise and/or its retail packaging in its condition as presented for examination (
i.e.,
an unredacted condition) if CBP concludes that the disclosure of information to the owner of the recorded mark as described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section would assist CBP in its determination, and provided that disclosure would not compromise an ongoing law enforcement investigation or national security. CBP may also provide a sample of the merchandise and/or its retail packaging in its condition as presented for examination to the owner of the recorded mark. The release of a sample will be in accordance with, and subject to, the bond and return requirements of paragraph (c) of this section. The disclosure may include any serial numbers, dates of manufacture, lot codes, batch numbers, universal product codes, or other identifying markings appearing on the merchandise or its retail packaging (including labels), in alphanumeric or other formats.
(4)
Disclosure to owner of the recorded mark of limited importation information.
From the time merchandise is presented for examination, CBP may disclose to the owner of the recorded mark limited importation information in order to obtain assistance in determining whether an imported article bears a counterfeit mark. CBP may release the information prior to the issuance of the notice of detention, concurrently with the notice of detention, or, if the information is unavailable at the time the notice of detention is issued, CBP may release the information after issuance of the notice of detention. The limited importation information CBP may disclose to the owner of the recorded mark consists of:
(i) The date of importation;
(ii) The port of entry;
(iii) The description of the merchandise, for merchandise not yet detained, from the paper or electronic equivalent of the entry (as defined in § 142.3(a)(1) or (b) of this chapter), the CBP Form 7512, cargo manifest, advance electronic information or other entry document as appropriate, or, for detained merchandise, from the notice of detention;
(iv) The quantity, for merchandise not yet detained, as declared on the paper or electronic equivalent of the entry (as defined in § 142.3(a)(1) or (b) of this chapter), the CBP Form 7512, cargo manifest, advance electronic information, or other entry document as appropriate, or, for detained merchandise, from the notice of detention; and
(v) The country of origin of the merchandise.
(5)
Disclosure to owner of the recorded mark of redacted photographs, images and samples.
Notwithstanding the notice and seven business day response procedure of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, CBP may, in order to obtain assistance in determining whether an imported article bears a counterfeit mark and at any time after presentation of the merchandise for examination, provide to the owner of the recorded mark photographs, images, or a sample of the suspect merchandise or its retail packaging (including labels), provided that identifying information has been removed, obliterated, or otherwise obscured. Identifying information includes, but is not limited to, serial numbers, dates of manufacture, lot codes, batch numbers, universal product codes, the name or address of the manufacturer, exporter, or importer of the merchandise, or any markings that could reveal the name or address of the manufacturer, exporter, or importer of the merchandise, in alphanumeric or
other formats. CBP may release a sample under this paragraph (b)(5) when the owner of the recorded mark furnishes to CBP a bond in an amount specified by CBP and containing the conditions set forth in § 113.70(a) of this chapter. CBP may demand the return of the sample at any time. The owner of the recorded mark must return the sample to CBP upon demand or at the conclusion of any examination, testing, or similar procedure performed on the sample. In the event that the sample is damaged, destroyed, or lost while in the possession of the owner of the recorded mark, the owner must, in lieu of return of the sample, certify to CBP that: “The sample described as [insert description] and provided pursuant to 19 CFR 133.21(b)(5) was (damaged/destroyed/lost) during examination, testing, or other use.”
(c)
Conditions of disclosure to owner of the recorded mark of information appearing on detained merchandise and/or its retail packaging, including unredacted photographs, images and samples
—(1)
Disclosure for limited purpose of assisting CBP in counterfeit mark determinations.
In order to obtain assistance in determining whether an imported article bears a counterfeit mark, CBP may disclose to the owner of the recorded mark, prior to seizure, information appearing on the merchandise and/or its retail packaging (including labels), unredacted photographs or images of the merchandise and/or its retail packaging in its condition as presented for examination, or an unredacted sample of the imported merchandise and/or its retail packaging in its condition as presented for examination, in accordance with paragraphs (b)(2)(ii) and (3) of this section. Upon release of such information, photographs, images, or samples, CBP will notify the owner of the recorded mark that some or all of the information being released may be subject to the protections of the Trade Secrets Act, and that CBP is only disclosing the information to the owner of the recorded mark for the purpose of assisting CBP in determining whether the merchandise bears a counterfeit mark.
(2)
Bond.
CBP may release a sample under paragraph (b)(3) of this section when the owner of the recorded mark furnishes to CBP a bond in an amount specified by CBP and containing the conditions set forth in § 113.70(a) of this chapter. CBP may demand the return of the sample at any time. The owner of the recorded mark must return the sample to CBP upon demand or at the conclusion of any examination, testing, or similar procedure performed on the sample. In the event that the sample is damaged, destroyed, or lost while in the possession of the owner of the recorded mark, the owner must, in lieu of return of the sample, certify to CBP that: “The sample described as [insert description] and provided pursuant to 19 CFR 133.21(c) was (damaged/destroyed/lost) during examination, testing, or other use.”
(d)
Disclosure to importer of unredacted photographs, images, and samples.
CBP will disclose to the importer unredacted photographs, images, or an unredacted sample of imported merchandise suspected of bearing a counterfeit mark at any time after the merchandise is presented to CBP for examination. CBP may demand the return of the sample at any time. The importer must return the sample to CBP upon demand or at the conclusion of any examination, testing, or similar procedure performed on the sample. In the event that the sample is damaged, destroyed, or lost while in the possession of the importer, the importer must, in lieu of return of the sample, certify to CBP that: “The sample described as [insert description] and provided pursuant to 19 CFR 133.21(d) was (damaged/destroyed/lost) during examination, testing, or other use.”
(e)
Seizure and disclosure to owner of the recorded mark of comprehensive importation information.
Upon a determination by CBP, made any time after the merchandise has been presented for examination, that an article of domestic or foreign manufacture imported into the United States bears a counterfeit mark, CBP will seize such merchandise and, in the absence of the written consent of the owner of the recorded mark, forfeit the seized merchandise in accordance with the customs laws. When merchandise is seized under this section, CBP will disclose to
the owner of the recorded mark the following comprehensive importation information, if available, within 30 business days from the date of the notice of the seizure:
(1) The date of importation;
(2) The port of entry;
(3) The description of the merchandise from the notice of seizure;
(4) The quantity as set forth in the notice of seizure;
(5) The country of origin of the merchandise;
(6) The name and address of the manufacturer;
(7) The name and address of the exporter; and
(8) The name and address of the importer.
(f)
Disclosure to owner of the recorded mark, following seizure, of unredacted photographs, images, and samples.
At any time following a seizure of merchandise bearing a counterfeit mark under this section, and upon receipt of a proper request from the owner of the recorded mark, CBP may provide, if available, photographs, images, or a sample of the seized merchandise and its retail packaging, in its condition as presented for examination, to the owner of the recorded mark. CBP may release a sample under this paragraph (f) when the owner of the recorded mark furnishes to CBP a bond in an amount specified by CBP and containing the conditions set forth in § 113.70(b) of this chapter. CBP may demand the return of the sample at any time. The owner of the recorded mark must return the sample to CBP upon demand or at the conclusion of the examination, testing, or other use, such as pursuit of a related civil remedy for infringement, whichever occurs sooner. In the event that the sample is damaged, destroyed, or lost while in the possession of the owner of the recorded mark, the owner must, in lieu of return of the sample, certify to CBP that: “The sample described as [insert description] and provided pursuant to 19 CFR 133.21(f) was (damaged/destroyed/lost) during examination, testing, or other use.”
(g)
Consent of the mark owner; failure to make appropriate disposition.
The owner of the recorded mark, within thirty days from notification of seizure, may provide written consent to the importer allowing the importation of the seized merchandise in its condition as imported or its exportation, entry after obliteration of the mark, or other appropriate disposition. Otherwise, the merchandise will be disposed of in accordance with § 133.52 of this part, subject to the importer's right to petition for relief from forfeiture under the provisions of part 171 of this chapter.
[CBP Dec. 12-10, 77 FR 24379, Apr. 24, 2012, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-12, 80 FR 56379, Sept. 18, 2015; CBP Dec. 24-03, 89 FR 52374, June 24, 2024]
§ 133.22
Restrictions on importation of articles bearing copying or simulating trademarks.
(a)
Copying or simulating trademark or trade name defined.
A “copying or simulating” trademark or trade name is one which may so resemble a recorded mark or name as to be likely to cause the public to associate the copying or simulating mark or name with the recorded mark or name.
(b)
Denial of entry.
Any articles of foreign or domestic manufacture imported into the United States bearing a mark or name copying or simulating a recorded mark or name shall be denied entry and subject to detention as provided in § 133.25.
(c)
Relief from detention of articles bearing copying or simulating trademarks.
Articles subject to the restrictions of this section shall be detained for 30 days from the date on which the goods are presented for Customs examination, to permit the importer to establish that any of the following circumstances are applicable:
(1) The objectionable mark is removed or obliterated as a condition to entry in such a manner as to be illegible and incapable of being reconstituted, for example by:
(i) Grinding off imprinted trademarks wherever they appear;
(ii) Removing and disposing of plates bearing a trademark or trade name;
(2) The merchandise is imported by the recordant of the trademark or trade name or his designate;
(3) The recordant gives written consent to an importation of articles otherwise subject to the restrictions set
forth in paragraph (b) of this section or § 133.23(c) of this subpart, and such consent is furnished to appropriate Customs officials;
(4) The articles of foreign manufacture bear a recorded trademark and the one-item personal exemption is claimed and allowed under § 148.55 of this chapter.
(d)
Exceptions for articles bearing counterfeit trademarks.
The provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section are not applicable to articles bearing counterfeit trademarks at the time of importation (see § 133.26).
(e)
Release of detained articles.
Articles detained in accordance with § 133.25 may be released to the importer during the 30-day period of detention if any of the circumstances allowing exemption from trademark or trade name restriction set forth in paragraph (c) of this section are established.
(f)
Seizure.
If the importer has not obtained release of detained articles within the period of detention as provided in § 133.25 of this subpart, the merchandise shall be seized and forfeiture proceedings instituted. The importer shall be promptly notified of the seizure and liability to forfeiture and his right to petition for relief in accordance with the provisions of part 171 of this chapter.
[T.D. 99-21, 64 FR 9062, Feb. 24, 1999, as amended at CBP Dec. 12-10, 77 FR 24380, Apr. 24, 2012]
§ 133.23
Restrictions on importation of gray market articles.
(a)
Restricted gray market articles defined.
“Restricted gray market articles” are foreign-made articles bearing a genuine trademark or trade name identical with or substantially indistinguishable from one owned and recorded by a citizen of the United States or a corporation or association created or organized within the United States and imported without the authorization of the U.S. owner. “Restricted gray market goods” include goods bearing a genuine trademark or trade name which is:
(1)
Independent licensee.
Applied by a licensee (including a manufacturer) independent of the U.S. owner, or
(2)
Foreign owner.
Applied under the authority of a foreign trademark or trade name owner other than the U.S. owner, a parent or subsidiary of the U.S. owner, or a party otherwise subject to common ownership or control with the U.S. owner (see §§ 133.2(d) and 133.12(d) of this part), from whom the U.S. owner acquired the domestic title, or to whom the U.S. owner sold the foreign title(s); or
(3) “
Lever-rule
”. Applied by the U.S. owner, a parent or subsidiary of the U.S. owner, or a party otherwise subject to common ownership or control with the U.S. owner (see §§ 133.2(d) and 133.12(d) of this part), to goods that the Customs Service has determined to be physically and materially different from the articles authorized by the U.S. trademark owner for importation or sale in the U.S. (as defined in § 133.2 of this part).
(b)
Labeling of physically and materially different goods.
Goods determined by the Customs Service to be physically and materially different under the procedures of this part, bearing a genuine mark applied under the authority of the U.S. owner, a parent or subsidiary of the U.S. owner, or a party otherwise subject to common ownership or control with the U.S. owner (see §§ 133.2(d) and 133.12(d) of this part), shall not be detained under the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section where the merchandise or its packaging bears a conspicuous and legible label designed to remain on the product until the first point of sale to a retail consumer in the United States stating that: “This product is not a product authorized by the United States trademark owner for importation and is physically and materially different from the authorized product.” The label must be in close proximity to the trademark as it appears in its most prominent location on the article itself or the retail package or container. Other information designed to dispel consumer confusion may also be added.
(c)
Denial of entry.
All restricted gray market goods imported into the United States shall be denied entry and subject to detention as provided in § 133.25, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
Relief from detention of gray market articles.
Gray market goods subject to the restrictions of this section shall be
detained for 30 days from the date on which the goods are presented for Customs examination, to permit the importer to establish that any of the following exceptions, as well as the circumstances described above in § 133.22(c), are applicable:
(1) The trademark or trade name was applied under the authority of a foreign trademark or trade name owner who is the same as the U.S. owner, a parent or subsidiary of the U.S. owner, or a party otherwise subject to common ownership or control with the U.S. owner (in an instance covered by §§ 133.2(d) and 133.12(d) of this part); and/or
(2) For goods bearing a genuine mark applied under the authority of the U.S. owner, a parent or subsidiary of the U.S. owner, or a party otherwise subject to common ownership or control with the U.S. owner, that the merchandise as imported is not physically and materially different, as described in § 133.2(e), from articles authorized by the U.S. owner for importation or sale in the United States; or
(3) Where goods are detained for violation of § 133.23(a)(3), as physically and materially different from the articles authorized by the U.S. trademark owner for importation or sale in the U.S., a label in compliance with § 133.23(b) is applied to the goods.
(e)
Release of detained articles.
Articles detained in accordance with § 133.25 may be released to the importer during the 30-day period of detention if any of the circumstances allowing exemption from trademark restriction set forth in § 133.22(c) of this subpart or in paragraph (d) of this section are established.
(f)
Seizure.
If the importer has not obtained release of detained articles within the period of detention as provided in § 133.25 of this subpart, the merchandise shall be seized and forfeiture proceedings instituted. The importer shall be notified of the seizure and liability of forfeiture and his right to petition for relief in accordance with the provisions of part 171 of this chapter.
[T.D. 99-21, 64 FR 9062, Feb. 24, 1999, as amended at CBP Dec. 12-10, 77 FR 24380, Apr. 24, 2012]
§ 133.24
Restrictions on articles accompanying importer and mail importations.
(a)
Detention.
Articles accompanying an importer and mail importations subject to the restrictions of §§ 133.22 and 133.23 shall be detained for 30 days from the date of notice that such restrictions apply, to permit the establishment of whether any of the circumstances described in § 133.22(c) or § 133.23(d) are applicable.
(b)
Notice of detention.
Notice of detention shall be given in the following manner:
(1)
Articles accompanying importer.
When the articles are carried as accompanying baggage or on the person of persons arriving in the United States, the Customs inspector shall orally advise the importer that the articles are subject to detention.
(2)
Mail importations.
When the articles arrive by mail in noncommercial shipments, or in commercial shipments valued at $250 or less, notice of the detention shall be given on Customs Form 8.
(c)
Release of detained articles
—(1)
General.
Articles detained in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section may be released to the importer during the 30-day period of detention if any of the circumstances allowing exemption from trademark or trade name restriction(s) set forth in § 133.22(c) or § 133.23(d) of this subpart are established.
(2)
Articles accompanying importer.
Articles arriving as accompanying baggage or on the person of the importer may be exported or destroyed under Customs supervision at the request of the importer, or may be released if:
(i) The importer removes or obliterates the marks in a manner acceptable to the Customs officer at the time of examination of the articles; or
(ii) The request of the importer to obtain skillful removal of the marks is granted by the port director under such conditions as he may deem necessary, and upon return of the article to Customs for verification, the marks are found to be satisfactorily removed.
(3)
Mail importations.
Articles arriving by mail in noncommercial shipments, or in commercial shipments valued at
$250 or less, may be exported or destroyed at the request of the addressee or may be released if:
(i) The addressee appears in person at the appropriate Customs office and at that time removes or obliterates the marks in a manner acceptable to the Customs officer; or
(ii) The request of the addressee appearing in person to obtain skillful removal of the marks is granted by the port director under such conditions as he may deem necessary, and upon return of the article to Customs for verification, the marks are found to be satisfactorily removed.
(d)
Seizure.
If the importer has not obtained release of detained articles within the 30-day period of detention, the merchandise shall be seized and forfeiture proceedings instituted. The importer shall be promptly notified of the seizure and liability to forfeiture and his right to petition for relief in accordance with the provisions of part 171 of this chapter.
§ 133.25
Procedure on detention of articles subject to restriction.
(a)
In general.
Articles subject to the restrictions of §§ 133.22 and 133.23 shall be detained for 30 days from the date on which the merchandise is presented for CBP examination. The importer shall be notified of the decision to detain within 5 days of the decision that such restrictions apply. The importer may, during the 30-day period, establish that any of the circumstances described in § 133.22(c) or § 133.23(d) are applicable. Extensions of the 30-day time period may be freely granted for good cause shown.
(b)
Notice of detention and disclosure of information.
From the time merchandise is presented for CBP examination until the time a notice of detention is issued, CBP may disclose to the owner of the recorded mark or trade name any of the following information in order to obtain assistance in determining whether an imported article bears an infringing trademark or trade name. Once a notice of detention is issued, CBP shall disclose to the owner of the recorded mark or trade name the following information, if available, within 30 days, excluding weekends and holidays, of the date of detention:
(1) The date of importation;
(2) The port of entry;
(3) A description of the merchandise;
(4) The quantity involved; and
(5) The country of origin of the merchandise.
(c)
Disclosure to the owner of the recorded mark or trade name.
At any time following presentation of the merchandise for CBP's examination, but prior to seizure, CBP may release a sample of the suspect merchandise to the owner of the recorded mark or trade name for examination or testing to assist in determining whether the article imported bears an infringing trademark or trade name. CBP may release a sample under this paragraph (c) when the owner of the recorded mark or trade name furnishes to CBP a bond in an amount specified by CBP and containing the conditions set forth in § 113.70(a) of this chapter. CBP may demand the return of the sample at any time. The owner must return the sample to CBP upon demand or at the conclusion of the examination or testing, whichever occurs sooner. In the event that the sample is damaged, destroyed, or lost while in the possession of the owner of the recorded mark or tradename, the owner must, in lieu of returning the sample, certify to CBP that: “The sample described as [insert description] and provided pursuant to 19 CFR 133.25(c) was (damaged/destroyed/lost) during examination or testing for trademark infringement.”
(d)
Form of notice.
Notice of detention of articles found subject to the restrictions of § 133.22 or § 133.23 shall be given the importer in writing.
[T.D. 99-21, 64 FR 9062, Feb. 24, 1999, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70170, Nov. 13, 2015; CBP Dec. 24-03, 89 FR 52374, June 24, 2024]
§ 133.26
Demand for redelivery of released merchandise.
If it is determined that merchandise which has been released from CBP custody is subject to the restrictions of § 133.21, § 133.22 or § 133.23 of this subpart, an authorized CBP official shall promptly make demand for the redelivery of the merchandise under the terms of the bond on CBP Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter, in accordance
with § 141.113 of this chapter. If the merchandise is not redelivered to CBP custody, a claim for liquidated damages shall be made in accordance with § 141.113(h) of this chapter.
[T.D. 72-266, 37 FR 20678, Oct. 3, 1972, as amended by T.D. 99-64, 64 FR 43266, Aug. 10, 1999; CBP Dec. 12-10, 77 FR 24380, Apr. 24, 2012; CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93018, Dec. 20, 2016]
§ 133.27
Civil fines for those involved in the importation of merchandise bearing a counterfeit mark.
In addition to any other penalty or remedy authorized by law, CBP may impose a civil fine under 19 U.S.C. 1526(f) on any person who directs, assists financially or otherwise, or aids and abets the importation of merchandise for sale or public distribution that bears a counterfeit mark resulting in a seizure of the merchandise under 19 U.S.C. 1526(e) (see § 133.21 of this subpart), as follows:
(a)
First violation.
For the first seizure of merchandise under this section, the fine imposed will not be more than the value the merchandise would have had if it were genuine, according to the manufacturer's suggested retail price in the United States at the time of seizure.
(b)
Subsequent violations:
For the second and each subsequent seizure under this section, the fine imposed will not be more than twice the value the merchandise would have had if it were genuine, according to the manufacturer's suggested retail price in the United States at the time of seizure.
[CBP Dec. 03-12, 68 FR 43637, July 24, 2003]

# Subpart D—Recordation of Copyrights
§ 133.31
Recordation of copyrighted works.
(a)
Eligible works.
Claims to copyright which have been registered in accordance with the Copyright Act of July 30, 1947, as amended, or the Copyright Act of 1976, as amended, may be recorded with Customs for import protection.
(b)
Persons eligible to record.
The copyright owner, including any person who has acquired copyright ownership through an exclusive license, assignment, or otherwise, and claims actual or potential injury because of actual or contemplated importations of copies (or phonorecords) of eligible works, may file an application to record a copyright. “Copyright owner,” with respect to any one of the exclusive rights comprised in a copyright, refers to the owner of that particular right.
(c)
Notice of recordation and other action.
Applicants and recordants will be notified of the approval or denial of an application filed in accordance with § 133.32, § 133.35, § 133.36, or § 133.37.
[T.D. 72-266, 37 FR 20678, Oct. 3, 1972, as amended by T.D. 73-212, 38 FR 21397, Aug. 8, 1973; T.D. 87-40, 52 FR 9474, Mar. 25, 1987]
§ 133.32
Application to record copyright.
An application to record a copyright to secure customs protection against the importation of infringing copies or phonorecords shall be in writing addressed to the IPR
Restricted Merchandise Branch, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, 1300 Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington, DC 20229, and shall include the following information:
(a) The name and complete address of the copyright owner or owners;
(b) If the applicant is a person claiming actual or potential injury by reason of actual or contemplated importations of copies or phonorecords of the eligible work, a statement setting forth the circumstances of such actual or potential injury;
(c) The country of manufacture of genuine copies or phonorecords of the protected work;
(d) The name and principal address of any foreign person or business entity authorized or licensed to use the protected work, and a statement as to the exclusive rights authorized;
(e) The foreign title of the work, if different from the U.S. title; and
(f) In the case of an application to record a copyright in a sound recording, a statement setting forth the name(s) of the performing artist(s), and any other identifying names appearing on the surface of reproduction of the sound recording, or its label or container.
[T.D. 87-40, 52 FR 9474, Mar. 25, 1987, as amended by T.D. 91-77, 56 FR 46115, Sept. 10, 1991; T.D. 99-27, 64 FR 13675, Mar. 22, 1999]
§ 133.33
Documents and fee to accompany application.
(a)
Documents.
The application for recordation shall be accompanied by the following documents:
(1) An “additional certificate” of copyright registration issued by the U.S. Copyright Office. If the name of the applicant differs from the name of the copyright owner identified in the certificate, the application shall be accompanied by a certified copy of any assignment, exclusive license, or other document recorded in the U.S. Copyright Office showing that the applicant has acquired copyright ownership in the copyright.
(2) Five photographic or other likenesses reproduced on paper approximately 8″ × 10
1/2
″ in size of any copyrighted work. An application shall be excepted from this requirement if it covers a work such as a book, magazine, periodical, or similar copyrighted matter readily identifiable by title and author or if it covers a sound recording. Five likenesses of a component part of a copyrighted work, together with the name or title, if any, by which the part depicted is identifiable, may accompany an application covering an entire copyrighted work.
(b)
Fee.
Each application shall be accompanied by a fee of $190 for each copyright to be recorded. A check or money order shall be made payable to the United States Customs Service.
[T.D. 72-266, 37 FR 20678, Oct. 3, 1973, as amended by T.D. 75-160, 40 FR 28791, July 9, 1975; T.D. 84-133, 49 FR 26571, June 28, 1984; T.D. 87-40, 52 FR 9475, Mar. 25, 1987]
§ 133.34
Effective date, term, and cancellation of recordation.
(a)
Effective date.
Recordation of copyright and protection thereunder shall be effective on the date an application for recordation is approved, as shown on the recordation notice issued by the United States Customs Service instructing Customs officers as to the terms and conditions of import protection appropriate.
(b)
Term.
The recordation of copyright shall remain in effect for 20 years unless the copyright ownership of the recordant expires before that time. If the ownership expires in less than 20 years, recordation shall remain in effect until the ownership expires. If the ownership has not expired after 20 years, recordation may be renewed as provided in § 133.37.
(c)
Cancellation.
Recordation of a copyright with the United States Customs Service shall be canceled upon request of the recordant, or if the registration in the U.S. Copyright Office is finally canceled or revoked.
[T.D. 72-266, 37 FR 20678, Oct. 3, 1972, as amended by T.D. 87-40, 52 FR 9475, Mar. 25, 1987]
§ 133.35
Change of ownership of recorded copyright.
(a)
Application.
If the ownership of a recorded copyright is transferred and the owner wishes to continue the recordation with the CBP, he shall make written application to the IPR
Restricted Merchandise Branch as follows:
(1) Comply, as appropriate, with § 133.32; and
(2) Describe any time limit on the rights of ownership transferred.
(b)
Document and fee.
The application shall be accompanied by:
(1) A certified copy of any assignment, exclusive license, or other document recorded in the U.S. Copyright Office showing the applicant has acquired an ownership interest in the copyright; and
(2) A fee of $80, which covers all copyrights included in the application which have been previously recorded with the U.S. Customs and Border Protection. A check or money order shall be made payable to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
[T.D. 72-266, 37 FR 20678, Oct. 3, 1972, as amended by T.D. 75-160, 40 FR 28791, July 9, 1975; T.D. 91-77, 56 FR 46115, Sept. 10, 1991]
§ 133.36
Change in name of owner of recorded copyright.
If there is a change in the name of the owner of a recorded copyright, but no transfer of ownership, written notice specifying the change shall be given to the IPR
Restricted Merchandise Branch accompanied by the following:
(a) A certified copy of any document recorded in the U.S. Copyright Office showing the change in the name of the owner; and
(b) Payment of a fee of $80, which covers all copyrights included in the application which have been previously recorded with the CBP. A check or money order shall be made payable to U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
[T.D. 72-266, 37 FR 20678, Oct. 3, 1972, as amended by T.D. 75-160, 40 FR 28791, July 9, 1975; T.D. 91-77, 56 FR 46115, Sept. 10, 1991]
§ 133.37
Renewal of copyright recordation.
(a)
Term of renewal.
If a recorded copyright has a term which exceeds the original 20-year recordation, continued Customs protection may be obtained by renewing the recordation. The renewed recordation shall remain in effect for 20 years, unless the recordant's copyright ownership expires sooner, in which case it shall remain in effect until the ownership expires. There is no limit to the number of times recordation of a subsisting copyright may be renewed.
(b)
Application for renewal.
An application to renew recordation shall be made no later than 3 months before the date the recordation then in effect expires. The application shall be in writing addressed to the IPR
Restricted Merchandise Branch.
(c)
Materials to be submitted with application.
An application to renew Customs recordation shall include:
(1) Proof that the recordant's copyright ownership is valid. The proof required shall vary with the date that the work was first copyrighted as follows:
(i)
Works in which copyright subsists on or after January 1, 1978.
An affidavit signed by the recordant attesting to the continued validity of the copyright, stating the date the copyright was registered with the U.S. Copyright Office, whether the author of the work is still alive and, if not, the date of his death, and any additional information that Customs may require of the recordant.
(ii)
Works under statutory copyright on December 31, 1977.
If the copyright is still in its first term when recordation expires, a certificate of registration issued by the U.S. Copyright Office or, if the copyright has been renewed, a certificate of renewal registration issued by the U.S. Copyright Office.
(2) A statement describing any change of ownership or name of owner, in compliance with §§ 133.35 and 133.36, and any change of address of the owner.
(3) Payment of a fee of $80. A check or money order shall be made payable to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
(d)
Untimely application.
If the recordant fails to submit a renewal application at least 3 months before the recordation expires, he may not renew the recordation. The recordant shall be required to reapply to record the copyright in accordance with the procedures and requirements of §§ 133.32 and 133.33.
[T.D. 87-40, 52 FR 9475, Mar. 25, 1987, as amended by T.D. 91-77, 56 FR 46115, Sept. 10, 1991]

# Subpart E—Importations Violating Copyright Laws
§ 133.41
[Reserved]
§ 133.42
Piratical articles; Unlawful copies or phonorecords of recorded copyrighted works.
(a)
Definition.
A “piratical article,” for purposes of this part, is an unlawfully made (without the authorization of the copyright owner) copy or phonorecord of a recorded copyrighted work, importation of which is prohibited by the Copyright Act of 1976, as amended.
(b)
Detention, notice, and disclosure of information
—(1)
Detention period.
CBP may detain any article of domestic or foreign manufacture imported into the United States that is suspected of constituting a piratical article in violation of a copyright recorded with CBP. The detention will be for a period of up to 30 days from the date on which the merchandise is presented for examination. In accordance with 19 U.S.C. 1499(c), if, after the detention period, the article is not released, the article will be deemed excluded for purposes of 19 U.S.C. 1514(a)(4).
(2)
Notice of detention to importer and disclosure to owner of the recorded copyrighted work
—(i)
Notice and seven business day response period.
Within five business days from the date of a decision to detain suspect merchandise, CBP will notify the importer in writing
of the detention as set forth in § 151.16(c) of this chapter and 19 U.S.C. 1499. CBP will also inform the importer that for purposes of assisting CBP in determining whether the detained merchandise is a piratical article:
(A) CBP may have previously disclosed to the owner of the recorded copyright, prior to issuance of the notice of detention, limited importation information concerning the detained merchandise, as described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, and, in any event, such information may be released to the owner of the recorded copyright, if available, no later than the date of issuance of the notice of detention; and
(B) CBP may disclose to the owner of the recorded copyright information that appears on the detained merchandise and/or its retail packaging, including unredacted photographs, images, or samples, as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, unless the importer provides information within seven business days of the notification establishing that the detained merchandise is not piratical.
(ii)
Failure of importer to respond or insufficient response to notice.
Where the importer does not provide information within the seven business day response period, or the information provided is insufficient for CBP to determine that the merchandise is not piratical, CBP will proceed with the disclosure of information as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section to the owner of the recorded copyright, if CBP concludes that the disclosure would assist CBP in its determination, and provided that disclosure would not compromise an ongoing law enforcement investigation or national security. CBP will notify the importer in case of any such disclosure.
(3)
Disclosure to owner of the recorded copyright of information appearing on detained merchandise and/or its retail packaging, including unredacted photographs, images, or samples.
CBP will disclose information appearing on the merchandise and/or its retail packaging (including labels), and images (including photographs) of the merchandise and/or its retail packaging in its condition as presented for examination (
i.e.,
an unredacted condition) if CBP concludes that the disclosure of information to the owner of the recorded copyright as described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section would assist CBP in its determination, and provided that disclosure would not compromise an ongoing law enforcement investigation or national security. CBP may also provide a sample of the merchandise and/or its retail packaging in its condition as presented for examination to the owner of the recorded copyright. The release of a sample will be in accordance with, and subject to, the bond and return requirements of paragraph (c) of this section. The disclosure may include any serial numbers, dates of manufacture, lot codes, batch numbers, universal product codes, or other identifying markings appearing on the merchandise or its retail packaging (including labels), in alphanumeric or other formats.
(4)
Disclosure to owner of recorded copyright of limited importation information.
From the time merchandise is presented for examination, CBP may disclose to the owner of the recorded copyright limited importation information to obtain assistance in determining whether an imported article is a piratical article. CBP may release the information prior to the issuance of the notice of detention, concurrently with the notice of detention, or, if the information is unavailable at the time the notice of detention is issued, CBP may release the information after issuance of the notice of detention. The limited importation information CBP may disclose to the owner of the recorded copyright consists of:
(i) The date of importation;
(ii) The port of entry;
(iii) The description of the merchandise, for merchandise not yet detained, from the paper or electronic equivalent of the entry (as defined in § 142.3(a)(1) or (b) of this chapter), the CBP Form 7512, cargo manifest, advance electronic information or other entry document as appropriate, or, for detained merchandise, from the notice of detention;
(iv) The quantity, for merchandise not yet detained, as declared on the paper or electronic equivalent of the entry (as defined in § 142.3(a)(1) or (b) of this chapter), the CBP Form 7512, cargo
manifest, advance electronic information, or other entry document as appropriate, or, for detained merchandise, from the notice of detention; and
(v) The country of origin of the merchandise.
(5)
Disclosure to owner of recorded copyright of redacted photographs, images and samples.
Notwithstanding the notice and seven business day response procedure of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, CBP may, in order to obtain assistance in determining whether an imported article is a piratical article and at any time after presentation of the merchandise for examination, provide to the owner of the recorded copyright photographs, images, or a sample of the suspect merchandise or its retail packaging (including labels), provided that identifying information has been removed, obliterated, or otherwise obscured. Identifying information includes, but is not limited to, serial numbers, dates of manufacture, lot codes, batch numbers, universal product codes, the name or address of the manufacturer, exporter, or importer of the merchandise, or any markings that could reveal the name or address of the manufacturer, exporter, or importer of the merchandise, in alphanumeric or other formats. CBP may release a sample under this paragraph (b)(5) when the owner of the recorded copyright furnishes to CBP a bond in an amount specified by CBP and containing the conditions set forth in § 113.70(a) of this chapter. CBP may demand the return of the sample at any time. The owner of the recorded copyright must return the sample to CBP upon demand or at the conclusion of any examination, testing, or similar procedure performed on the sample, whichever occurs sooner. In the event that the sample is damaged, destroyed, or lost while in the possession of the owner of the recorded copyright, the owner must, in lieu of return of the sample, certify to CBP that: “The sample described as [insert description] and provided pursuant to 19 CFR 133.42(b)(5) was (damaged/destroyed/lost) during examination, testing, or other use.”
(c)
Conditions of disclosure to owner of recorded copyright of information appearing on detained merchandise and/or its retail packaging, including unredacted photographs, images and samples
—(1)
Disclosure for limited purpose of assisting CBP in piratical merchandise determinations.
In accordance with paragraphs (b)(2)(ii) and (b)(3) of this section, when CBP discloses information to the owner of the recorded copyright prior to seizure, CBP will notify the owner of the recorded copyright that some or all of the information being released may be subject to the protections of the Trade Secrets Act, and that CBP is only disclosing the information to the owner of the recorded copyright for the purpose of assisting CBP in determining whether the merchandise is a piratical article.
(2)
Bond.
CBP may release a sample under paragraph (b)(3) of this section when the owner of the recorded copyright furnishes to CBP a bond in an amount specified by CBP and containing the conditions set forth in § 113.70(a) of this chapter. CBP may demand the return of the sample at any time. The owner of the recorded copyright must return the sample to CBP upon demand or at the conclusion of any examination, testing, or similar procedure performed on the sample, whichever occurs sooner. In the event that the sample is damaged, destroyed, or lost while in the possession of the owner of the recorded copyright, the owner must, in lieu of return of the sample, certify to CBP that: “The sample described as [insert description] and provided pursuant to 19 CFR 133.42(c) was (damaged/destroyed/lost) during examination, testing, or other use.”
(d)
Disclosure to importer of unredacted photographs, images, and samples.
CBP will disclose to the importer unredacted photographs, images, or an unredacted sample of imported merchandise suspected of being a piratical article at any time after the merchandise is presented to CBP for examination. CBP may demand the return of the sample at any time. The importer must return the sample to CBP upon demand or at the conclusion of any examination, testing, or similar procedure performed on the sample, whichever occurs sooner. In the event that the sample is damaged, destroyed, or
lost while in the possession of the importer, the importer must, in lieu of return of the sample, certify to CBP that: “The sample described as [insert description] and provided pursuant to 19 CFR 133.42(d) was (damaged/destroyed/lost) during examination, testing, or other use.”
(e)
Seizure and disclosure to owner of the recorded copyright of comprehensive importation information.
Upon a determination by CBP, made any time after the merchandise has been presented for examination, that an article of domestic or foreign manufacture imported into the United States is a piratical article, CBP will seize such merchandise and, in the absence of the written consent of the owner of the recorded copyright (
see
paragraph (g) of this section), forfeit the seized merchandise in accordance with the customs laws. When merchandise is seized under this section, CBP will disclose to the owner of the recorded copyright the following comprehensive importation information, if available, within 30 business days from the date of the notice of the seizure:
(1) The date of importation;
(2) The port of entry;
(3) The description of the merchandise from the notice of seizure;
(4) The quantity as set forth in the notice of seizure;
(5) The country of origin of the merchandise;
(6) The name and address of the manufacturer;
(7) The name and address of the exporter; and
(8) The name and address of the importer.
(f)
Disclosure to owner of recorded copyright, following seizure, of unredacted photographs, images, and samples.
At any time following a seizure of a piratical article under this section, and upon receipt of a proper request from the owner of the recorded copyright, CBP may provide, if available, photographs, images, or a sample of the seized merchandise and its retail packaging, in its condition as presented for examination, to the owner of the recorded copyright. CBP may release a sample under this paragraph (f) when the owner of the recorded copyright furnishes to CBP a bond in the amount specified by CBP and containing the conditions set forth in § 113.70(b) of this chapter. CBP may demand the return of the sample at any time. The owner of the recorded copyright must return the sample to CBP upon demand or at the conclusion of the examination, testing, or other use, such as pursuit of a related civil remedy for infringement, whichever occurs sooner. In the event that the sample is damaged, destroyed, or lost while in the possession of the owner of the recorded copyright, the owner must, in lieu of return of the sample, certify to CBP that: “The sample described as [insert description] and provided pursuant to 19 CFR 133.42(f) was (damaged/destroyed/lost) during examination, testing, or other use.”
(g)
Consent of the owner of the recorded copyright; failure to make appropriate disposition.
The owner of the recorded copyright, within 30 days from notification of seizure, may provide written consent to the importer allowing the importation of the seized merchandise in its condition as imported or its exportation, entry after obliteration of the recorded copyright, if practicable, or other appropriate disposition. Otherwise, the merchandise will be disposed of in accordance with § 133.52, subject to the importer's right to petition for relief from forfeiture under the provisions of part 171 of this chapter.
[CBP Dec. 24-03, 89 FR 52375, June 24, 2024]
§§ 133.43-133.45
[Reserved]
§ 133.46
Demand for redelivery of released articles.
If it is determined that articles which have been released from Customs custody are subject to the prohibitions or restrictions of this subpart, an authorized CBP official shall promptly make demand for redelivery of the articles under the terms of the bond on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter, in accordance with § 141.113 of this chapter. If the articles are not redelivered to Customs custody, a claim for liquidated damages shall be made
in accordance with § 141.113(h) of this chapter.
[T.D. 72-266, 37 FR 20678, Oct. 3, 1972, as amended by T.D. 73-175, 38 FR 17447, July 2, 1973; T.D. 74-227, 39 FR 32023, Sept. 4, 1974; T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41183, Oct. 19, 1984; T.D. 99-64, 64 FR 43266, Aug. 10, 1999; CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93018, Dec. 20, 2016]

# Subpart F—Enforcement of the Prohibition on Importation of Merchandise Capable of Circumventing Technological Measures for Protection of Copyright

# Source:
CBP Dec. 24-03, 89 FR 52376, June 24, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 133.47
Articles suspected of violating the Digital Millennium Copyright Act.
(a)
Definitions
—(1)
Copyright protection measure.
A technological measure that effectively controls access to, or effectively protects a right of a copyright owner in, a copyrighted work for which the copyright has been recorded with CBP.
(2)
Articles that violate the DMCA.
Articles that violate the importation prohibitions of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA), 17 U.S.C. 1201, consist of products, devices, components, or parts thereof primarily designed or produced for the purpose of circumventing a copyright protection measure, or which have only a limited commercially significant purpose or use other than such circumvention, or which are knowingly marketed by the manufacturer, importer, consignee, or other trafficker in such articles, or another acting in concert with the manufacturer importer, consignee, or trafficker for use in such circumvention.
(3)
Eligible person.
The owner of a recorded copyright, who employs a copyright protection measure that may have been circumvented or attempted to be circumvented by articles that violate the importation prohibitions of the DMCA.
(4)
Injured person.
The owner of a recorded copyright, who employs a copyright protection measure that has been circumvented or attempted to be circumvented by articles seized for violation of the importation prohibitions of the DMCA, and who has successfully applied to CBP for DMCA protections pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section.
(b)
Detention, notice, and disclosure of information
—(1)
Detention period.
CBP may detain any article of domestic or foreign manufacture imported into the United States that it suspects is in violation of the DMCA, as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The detention will be for a period of up to 30 days from the date on which the merchandise is presented for examination. In accordance with 19 U.S.C. 1499(c), if, after the detention period, the article is not released, the article will be deemed excluded for the purposes of 19 U.S.C. 1514(a)(4).
(2)
Notice of detention to importer and disclosure to eligible persons
—(i)
Notice and seven business day response period.
Within five business days from the date of a decision to detain suspect merchandise, CBP will notify the importer in writing of the detention as set forth in § 151.16(c) of this chapter and 19 U.S.C. 1499. CBP will also inform the importer that for purposes of assisting CBP in determining whether the detained merchandise violates the DMCA:
(A) CBP may have previously disclosed to the eligible person, prior to issuance of the notice of detention, limited importation information concerning the detained merchandise, as described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, and, in any event, such information may be released to the eligible person, if available, no later than the date of issuance of the notice of detention; and
(B) CBP may disclose to the eligible person information that appears on the detained merchandise and/or its retail packaging, including unredacted photographs, images, or samples, as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, unless the importer provides information within seven business days of the notification establishing that the detained merchandise does not violate the DMCA.
(ii)
Failure of importer to respond or insufficient response to notice.
Where the importer does not provide information within the seven business day response period, or the information provided is insufficient for CBP to determine that
the merchandise does not violate the DMCA, CBP will proceed with the disclosure of information, as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, to the eligible person if CBP concludes that the disclosure would assist CBP in its determination, and provided that the disclosure would not compromise an ongoing law enforcement investigation or national security. CBP will notify the importer in case of any such disclosure.
(iii)
Request for DMCA protections and establishment of a list of persons approved for post-seizure disclosures.
Eligible persons may apply to receive post-seizure disclosures from CBP by attaching a letter requesting such disclosures to an application to record or renew a copyright. Owners of existing copyright recordations may similarly apply for protection by submitting a letter requesting such disclosures to CBP. CBP will add those persons CBP approves for such disclosures to a list that CBP will maintain. CBP will provide the post-seizure disclosures described in this section to injured persons, as defined in this part, appearing on the list. CBP will publish a notice, signed by the Executive Director, Regulations and Rulings, of the establishment of the list in the
Federal Register.
After the list has been established, CBP will publish a notice of revisions to the list, signed by the Executive Director, Regulations and Rulings, in the
Federal Register
.
(3)
Disclosure to eligible persons of information appearing on detained merchandise and/or its retail packaging, including unredacted photographs, images or samples.
CBP will disclose information appearing on the merchandise and/or its retail packaging (including labels) and images (including photographs) of the merchandise and/or its retail packaging in its condition as presented for examination (
i.e.,
an unredacted condition) if CBP concludes that the disclosure of information to the eligible person as described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section would assist CBP in its determination, and provided that the disclosure would not compromise an ongoing law enforcement investigation or national security. CBP may also provide a sample of the merchandise and/or its retail packaging in its condition as presented for examination to the eligible person. The release of a sample will be in accordance with, and subject to, the bond and return requirements of paragraph (c) of this section. The disclosure may include any serial numbers, dates of manufacture, lot codes, batch numbers, universal product codes, or other identifying markings appearing on the merchandise or its retail packaging (including labels), in alphanumeric or other formats.
(4)
Disclosure to eligible person of limited importation information.
From the time merchandise is presented for examination, CBP may disclose to the eligible person limited importation information in order to obtain assistance in determining whether an imported article violates the DMCA. CBP may release the information prior to the issuance of the notice of detention, concurrently with the notice of detention, or, if the information is unavailable at the time the notice of detention is issued, CBP may release the information after issuance of the notice of detention. The limited importation information CBP may disclose to the eligible person consists of:
(i) The date of importation;
(ii) The port of entry;
(iii) The description of the merchandise, for merchandise not yet detained, from the paper or electronic equivalent of the entry (as defined in § 142.3(a)(1) or (b) of this chapter), the CBP Form 7512, cargo manifest, advance electronic information or other entry document as appropriate, or, for detained merchandise, from the notice of detention;
(iv) The quantity, for merchandise not yet detained, as declared on the paper or electronic equivalent of the entry (as defined in § 142.3(a)(1) or (b) of this chapter), the CBP Form 7512, cargo manifest, advance electronic information, or other entry document as appropriate, or, for detained merchandise, from the notice of detention; and
(v) The country of origin of the merchandise.
(5)
Disclosure to eligible person of redacted photographs, images and samples.
Notwithstanding the notice and seven business day response procedure of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, CBP
may, in order to obtain assistance in determining whether an imported article violates the DMCA and at any time after presentation of the merchandise for examination, provide to the eligible person photographs, images, or a sample of the suspect merchandise or its retail packaging (including labels), provided that identifying information has been removed, obliterated, or otherwise obscured. Identifying information includes, but is not limited to, serial numbers, dates of manufacture, lot codes, batch numbers, universal product codes, the name or address of the manufacturer, exporter, or importer of the merchandise, or any markings that could reveal the name or address of the manufacturer, exporter, or importer of the merchandise, in alphanumeric or other formats. CBP may release a sample under this paragraph (b)(5) when the eligible person furnishes to CBP a bond in an amount specified by CBP and containing the conditions set forth in § 113.70(a) of this chapter. CBP may demand the return of the sample at any time. The eligible person must return the sample to CBP upon demand or at the conclusion of any examination, testing, or similar procedure performed on the sample, whichever occurs sooner. In the event that the sample is damaged, destroyed, or lost while in the possession of the eligible person, the eligible person must, in lieu of return of the sample, certify to CBP that: “The sample described as [insert description] and provided pursuant to 19 CFR 133.47(b)(5) was (damaged/destroyed/lost) during examination, testing, or other use.”
(c)
Conditions of disclosure to eligible person of information appearing on detained merchandise and/or its retail packaging, including unredacted photographs, images and samples
—(1)
Disclosure for limited purpose of assisting CBP in DMCA determinations.
In accordance with paragraphs (b)(2)(ii) and (b)(3) of this section, when CBP discloses information to an eligible person prior to seizure, CBP will notify the eligible person that some or all of the information being released may be subject to the protections of the Trade Secrets Act, and that CBP is only disclosing the information to the eligible person for the purpose of assisting CBP in determining whether the merchandise violates the DMCA.
(2)
Bond.
CBP may release a sample under paragraph (b)(3) of this section when the eligible person furnishes to CBP a bond in an amount specified by CBP and containing the conditions set forth in § 113.70(a) of this chapter. CBP may demand the return of the sample at any time. The eligible person must return the sample to CBP upon demand or at the conclusion of any examination, testing, or similar procedure performed on the sample, whichever occurs sooner. In the event that the sample is damaged, destroyed, or lost while in the possession of the eligible person, the eligible person must, in lieu of return of the sample, certify to CBP that: “The sample described as [insert description] and provided pursuant to 19 CFR 133.47(c) was (damaged/destroyed/lost) during examination, testing, or other use.”
(d)
Disclosure to importer of unredacted photographs, images or samples.
CBP will disclose to the importer unredacted photographs, images, or an unredacted sample of imported merchandise suspected of violating the DMCA at any time after the merchandise is presented to CBP for examination. CBP may demand the return of the sample at any time. The importer must return the sample to CBP upon demand or at the conclusion of any examination, testing, or similar procedure performed on the sample, whichever occurs sooner. In the event that the sample is damaged, destroyed, or lost while in the possession of the importer, the importer must, in lieu of return of the sample, certify to CBP that: “The sample described as [insert description] and provided pursuant to 19 CFR 133.47(d) was (damaged/destroyed/lost) during examination, testing, or other use.”
(e)
Seizure and disclosure to injured person of comprehensive importation information.
Upon a determination by CBP, made any time after the merchandise has been presented for examination, that an article of domestic or foreign manufacture imported into the United States violates the DMCA as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, CBP will seize such merchandise and, in the absence of written consent
of the injured person (
see
paragraph (g) of this section), forfeit the seized merchandise in accordance with the customs laws. When merchandise is seized under this section, CBP will disclose to the injured person the following comprehensive importation information, if available, within 30 business days from the date of the notice of the seizure:
(1) The date of importation;
(2) The port of entry;
(3) The description of the merchandise from the notice of seizure;
(4) The quantity as set forth in the notice of seizure;
(5) The country of origin of the merchandise;
(6) The name and address of the manufacturer;
(7) The name and address of the exporter; and
(8) The name and address of the importer.
(f)
Disclosure to injured person, following seizure, of unredacted photographs, images and samples.
At any time following a seizure of DMCA-violative merchandise under this section, and upon receipt of a proper request from the injured person, CBP may provide, if available, photographs, images, or a sample of the seized merchandise and its retail packaging or labels, in its condition as presented for examination, to the injured person. CBP may release a sample under this paragraph (f) when the injured party furnishes to CBP a bond in an amount specified by CBP and containing the conditions set forth in § 113.70(b) of this chapter. CBP may demand the return of the sample at any time. The injured person must return the sample to CBP upon demand or at the conclusion of the examination, testing, or other use, such as pursuit of a related civil remedy for infringement, whichever occurs sooner. In the event that the sample is damaged, destroyed, or lost while in the possession of the injured person, the injured person must, in lieu of return of the sample, certify to CBP that: “The sample described as [insert description] and provided pursuant to 19 CFR 133.47(f) was (damaged/destroyed/lost) during examination, testing, or other use.”
(g)
Consent of the owner of the recorded copyright; failure to make appropriate disposition.
The owner of the recorded copyright, within 30 days from notification of seizure, may provide written consent to the importer allowing the importation of the seized merchandise in its condition as imported or its exportation, or other appropriate disposition. Otherwise, the merchandise will be disposed of in accordance with § 133.52, subject to the importer's right to petition for relief from forfeiture under the provisions of part 171 of this chapter.
§ 133.48
Demand for redelivery of released articles.
If it is determined that articles which have been released from CBP custody are subject to the prohibitions or restrictions of this subpart, an authorized CBP official will promptly make demand for redelivery of the articles in accordance with § 141.113 of this chapter. If the articles are not redelivered to CBP custody under the terms of the bond on CBP Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter, a claim for liquidated damages will be made in accordance with § 141.113 of this chapter.

# Subpart G—Procedure Following Forfeiture or Assessment of Liquidated Damages

# Source:
T.D. 72-266, 37 FR 20678, Oct. 3, 1972, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated by CBP Dec. 24-03, 89 FR 52376, June 24, 2024.
§ 133.51
Relief from forfeiture or liquidated damages.
(a)
Petition for relief.
The importer may petition in accordance with parts 171 and 172 of this chapter for relief from, or cancellation of, a forfeiture incurred for violation of the trademark or copyright laws, including the DMCA, or a claim for liquidated damages for failure to redeliver released merchandise incurred under the provisions of § 133.24, § 133.46, or § 133.48.
(b)
Conditioned relief.
In appropriate cases, except for articles bearing a counterfeit trademark, relief from a forfeiture may be granted pursuant to a petition for relief upon the following conditions and such other conditions as
may be specified by the appropriate Customs authority:
(1) The unlawfully imported or prohibited articles are exported or destroyed under Customs supervision and at no expense to the Government;
(2) All offending trademarks or trade names are removed or obliterated prior to release of the articles:
(3) In the case of books or periodicals manufactured abroad contrary to the terms of the “American manufacturing clause” of the Copyright Act of 1976 (17 U.S.C. 602, 603):
(i) Satisfactory evidence is submitted that a statement of abandonment has been filed and recorded in the Copyright Office by the copyright owner in accordance with the procedures of the Copyright Office; and
(ii) The notice of copyright is completely obliterated prior to release of the books or periodicals.
[T.D. 72-266, 37 FR 20678, Oct. 3, 1972, as amended by T.D. 79-159, 44 FR 31968, June 4, 1979; T.D. 87-40, 52 FR 9476, Mar. 25, 1987; CBP Dec. 24-03, 89 FR 52378, June 24, 2024]
§ 133.52
Disposition of forfeited merchandise.
(a)
Trademark (other than counterfeit) or trade name violations.
Articles forfeited for violation of the trademark laws, other than articles bearing a counterfeit trademark, shall be disposed of in accordance with the procedures applicable to forfeitures for violation of the Customs laws, after the removal or obliteration of the name, mark, or trademark by reason of which the articles were seized.
(b)
Copyright violations.
Articles forfeited for violation of the copyright laws shall be destroyed except as provided in §§ 133.42(g) and 133.47(g).
(c)
Articles bearing a counterfeit trademark.
Merchandise forfeited for violation of the trademark laws shall be destroyed, unless it is determined that the merchandise is not unsafe or a hazard to health and the Commissioner of Customs or his designee has the written consent of the U.S. trademark owner, in which case the Commissioner of Customs or his designee may dispose of the merchandise, after obliteration of the trademark, where feasible, by:
(1) Delivery to any Federal, State, or local government agency that, in the opinion of the Commissioner or his designee, has established a need for the merchandise; or
(2) Gift to any charitable institution that, in the opinion of the Commissioner or his designee, has established a need for the merchandise; or
(3) Sale at public auction, if more than 90 days has passed since the forfeiture and Customs has determined that no need for the merchandise has been established under paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section.
[T.D. 79-159, 44 FR 31969, June 4, 1969, as amended by T.D. 94-90, 59 FR 55997, Nov. 10, 1994; T.D. 97-91, 62 FR 61232, Nov. 17, 1997; CBP Dec. 24-03, 89 FR 52378, June 24, 2024]
§ 133.53
Refund of duty.
If a violation of the trademark or copyright laws is not discovered until after entry and deposit of estimated duty, the entry shall be endorsed with an appropriate notation and the duty refunded as an erroneous collection upon exportation or destruction of the prohibited articles in accordance with § 158.41 or § 158.45 of this chapter.
[T.D. 72-266, 37 FR 20678, Oct. 3, 1972, as amended by T.D. 73-175, 38 FR 17447, July 2, 1973]

# Subpart H—Donations of Intellectual Property Rights Technology and Related Support Services

# Source:
CBP Dec. 17-21, 82 FR 59513, Dec. 15, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 133.61
Donations of intellectual property rights technology and related support services.
(a)
Scope.
The Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) is authorized to accept donations of hardware, software, equipment, and similar technologies, as well as related support services and training, from private sector entities, for the purpose of assisting CBP in enforcing intellectual property rights. Such acceptance must be consistent with the conditions set forth in this section and section 308(d) of the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015 (19 U.S.C. 4301 note), as well as either section 482 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as
amended by section 2 of the Cross-Border Trade Enhancement Act of 2016 (6 U.S.C. 301a), or section 507 of the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act of 2004 (Pub. L. 108-90). However, this section does not apply to merchandise provided to CBP as samples,
e.g.,
as referenced in §§ 151.10 and 177.2 of this chapter.
(b)
Donation offer.
A donation offer must be submitted to CBP either via email, to
dap@cbp.dhs.gov,
or mailed to the attention of the Executive Assistant Commissioner, Office of Field Operations, or his/her designee. The donation offer must describe the proposed donation in sufficient detail to enable CBP to determine its compatibility with existing CBP technologies, networks, and facilities (
e.g.
operating system or similar requirements, power supply requirements, item size and weight,
etc.
). The donation offer must also include information pertaining to the donation's scope, purpose, expected benefits, intended use, costs, and attached conditions, as applicable, that is sufficient to enable CBP to evaluate the donation and make a determination as to whether to accept it. CBP will notify the donor, in writing, if additional information is requested or if CBP has determined that it will not accept the donation.
(c)
Agreement to accept donation.
If CBP accepts a donation of hardware, software, equipment, technologies, or related support services and training, for the purpose of enforcing intellectual property rights, CBP will enter into a signed, written agreement with an authorized representative of the donor. The agreement must contain all applicable terms and conditions of the donation. An agreement to accept a donation must provide that the hardware, software, equipment, technologies, or related support services and training are offered without the expectation of payment, and that the donor expressly waives any future claims, except those expressly reserved in the agreement, against the government related to the donation.
Pt. 134

# PART 134—COUNTRY OF ORIGIN MARKING
Sec.
134.0
Scope.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
134.1
Definitions.
134.2
Additional duties.
134.3
Delivery withheld until marked and redelivery ordered.
134.4
Penalties for removal, defacement, or alteration of marking.

# Subpart B—Articles Subject to Marking
134.11
Country of origin marking required.
134.12
Foreign articles reshipped from a U.S. possession.
134.13
Imported articles repacked or manipulated.
134.14
Articles usually combined.

# Subpart C—Marking of Containers or Holders
134.21
Special marking.
134.22
General rules for marking of containers or holders.
134.23
Containers or holders designed for or capable of reuse.
134.24
Containers or holders not designed for or capable of reuse.
134.25
Containers or holders for repacked J-list articles and articles incapable of being marked.
134.26
Imported articles repacked or manipulated.

# Subpart D—Exceptions to Marking Requirements
134.31
Requirements of other agencies.
134.32
General exceptions to marking requirements.
134.33
J-List exceptions.
134.34
Certain repacked articles.
134.35
Articles substantially changed by manufacture.
134.36
Inapplicability of marking exception for articles processed by importer.

# Subpart E—Method and Location of Marking Imported Articles
134.41
Methods and manner of marking.
134.42
Specific method may be required.
134.43
Methods of marking specific articles.
134.44
Location and other acceptable methods of marking.
134.45
Approved markings of country name.
134.46
Marking when name of country or locality other than country of origin appears.
134.47
Souvenirs and articles marked with trademarks or trade names.

# Subpart F—Articles Found Not Legally Marked
134.51
Procedure when importation found not legally marked.
134.52
Certificate of marking.
134.53
Examination packages.
134.54
Articles released from Customs custody.
134.55
Compensation of Customs officers and employees.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 19 U.S.C. 66, 1202 (General Note 3(i), Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States), 1304, 1624.

# Source:
T.D. 72-262, 37 FR 20318, Sept. 29, 1972, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 134 appear by CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93018, Dec. 20, 2016.
§ 134.0
Scope.
This part sets forth regulations implementing the country of origin marking requirements and exceptions of section 304 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1304), together with certain marking provisions of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202). The consequences and procedures to be followed when articles are not legally marked are set forth in this part. The consequences and procedures to be followed when articles are falsely marked are set forth in § 11.13 of this chapter. Special marking and labeling requirements are covered elsewhere. Provisions regarding the review and appeal rights of exporters and producers resulting from adverse North American Free Trade Agreement marking decisions are contained in subpart J of part 181 of this chapter.
[T.D. 81-290, 46 FR 58070, Nov. 30, 1981, as amended by T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51255, Dec. 21, 1988; T.D. 94-1, 58 FR 69471, Dec. 30, 1993]

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 134.1
Definitions.
When used in this part, the following terms shall have the meaning indicated:
(a)
Country.
“Country” means the political entity known as a nation. Colonies, possessions, or protectorates outside the boundaries of the mother country are considered separate countries.
(b)
Country of origin.
“Country of origin” means the country of manufacture, production, or growth of any article of foreign origin entering the United States. Further work or material added to an article in another country must effect a substantial transformation in order to render such other country the “country of origin” within the meaning of this part; however, for a good of a NAFTA or USMCA country, the marking rules set forth in part 102 of this chapter (hereinafter referred to as the part 102 Rules) will determine the country of origin.
(c)
Foreign origin.
“Foreign origin” refers to a country of origin other than the United States, as defined in paragraph (e) of this section, or its possessions and territories.
(d)
Ultimate purchaser.
The “ultimate purchaser” is generally the last person in the United States who will receive the article in the form in which it was imported; however, for a good of a NAFTA or USMCA country, the “ultimate purchaser” is the last person in the United States who purchases the good in the form in which it was imported. It is not feasible to state who will be the “ultimate purchaser” in every circumstance. The following examples may be helpful:
(1) If an imported article will be used in manufacture, the manufacturer may be the “ultimate purchaser” if he subjects the imported article to a process which results in a substantial transformation of the article, even though the process may not result in a new or different article, or for a good of a NAFTA or USMCA country, a process which results in one of the changes prescribed in the part 102 Rules as effecting a change in the article's country of origin.
(2) If the manufacturing process is merely a minor one which leaves the identity of the imported article intact, the consumer or user of the article, who obtains the article after the processing, will be regarded as the “ultimate purchaser.” With respect to a good of a NAFTA or USMCA country, if the manufacturing process does not result in one of the changes prescribed in the part 102 Rules as effecting a change in the article's country of origin, the consumer who purchases the
article after processing will be regarded as the ultimate purchaser.
(3) If an article is to be sold at retail in its imported form, the purchaser at retail is the “ultimate purchaser.”
(4) If the imported article is distributed as a gift the recipient is the “ultimate purchaser”, unless the good is a good of a NAFTA or USMCA country. In that case, the purchaser of the gift is the ultimate purchaser.
(e)
United States.
“United States” includes all territories and possessions of the United States, except the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Wake Island, Midway Islands, Kingman Reef, Johnston Island, and the island of Guam.
(f)
Customs territory of the United States.
“Customs territory of the United States,” as used in this chapter includes the States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
(g)
Good of a NAFTA or USMCA country.
A “good of a NAFTA or USMCA country” is an article for which the country of origin is Canada, Mexico or the United States as determined under the part 102 Rules.
(h)
NAFTA.
“NAFTA” means the North American Free Trade Agreement entered into by the United States, Canada and Mexico on August 13, 1992. NAFTA is not applicable to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after July 1, 2020.
(i)
NAFTA or USMCA country.
“NAFTA or USMCA country” means the territory of the United States, Canada or Mexico, as defined in Annex 201.1 of NAFTA and Chapter 1, Section C of the USMCA.
(j)
Part 102 Rules.
“Part 102 Rules” are the rules promulgated for purposes of determining whether a good is a good of a NAFTA country, as set forth in part 102 of this chapter. The rules also apply to determine the country of origin for marking purposes for goods imported under the USMCA.
(k)
Conspicuous.
“Conspicuous” means capable of being easily seen with normal handling of the article or container.
(l)
USMCA.
“USMCA” means the Agreement Between the United States of America, the United Mexican States, and Canada (USMCA), entered into force by the United States, Canada and Mexico on July 1, 2020.
[T.D. 72-262, 37 FR 20318, Sept. 29, 1972, as amended by T.D. 94-1, 58 FR 69471, Dec. 30, 1993; T.D. 95-68, 60 FR 46362, Sept. 6, 1995; CBP Dec. 21-10, 86 FR 35582, July 6, 2021]
§ 134.2
Additional duties.
Articles not marked as required by this part shall be subject to additional duties of 10 percent of the final appraised value unless exported or destroyed under Customs supervision prior to liquidation of the entry, as provided in 19 U.S.C. 1304(f). The 10 percent additional duty is assessable for failure either to mark the article (or container) to indicate the English name of the country of origin of the article or to include words or symbols required to prevent deception or mistake.
[T.D. 72-262, 37 FR 20318, Sept. 29, 1972, as amended by T.D. 90-51, 55 FR 28190, July 10, 1990]
§ 134.3
Delivery withheld until marked and redelivery ordered.
(a) Any imported article (or its container) held in CBP custody for inspection, examination, or appraisement will not be delivered until marked with its country of origin, or until estimated duties payable under 19 U.S.C. 1304(f), or adequate security for those duties (see § 134.53(a)(2)), are deposited.
(b) An authorized CBP official may demand redelivery to CBP custody of any article (or its container) previously released which is found to be not marked legally with its country of origin for the purpose of requiring the article (or its container) to be properly marked. A demand for redelivery will be made, as required under § 141.113(a) of this chapter, not later than 30 days after—
(1) The date of entry, in the case of merchandise examined in public stores and places of arrival, such as docks, wharfs, or piers; or
(2) The date of examination, in the case of merchandise examined at the importer's premises or such other appropriate places as determined by the port director.
(c) Nothing in this part shall be construed as excepting any article (or its
container) from the particular requirements of marking provided for in any other provision of law.
[T.D. 80-88, 45 FR 18921, Mar. 24, 1980, as amended by T.D. 90-51, 55 FR 28190, July 10, 1990; CBP Dec. 08-25, 73 FR 40726, July 16, 2008]
§ 134.4
Penalties for removal, defacement, or alteration of marking.
Any intentional removal, defacement, destruction, or alteration of a marking of the country of origin required by section 304, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1304), and this part in order to conceal this information may result in criminal penalties of up to $5,000 and/or imprisonment for 1 year, as provided in 19 U.S.C. 1304(h).
[T.D. 72-262, 37 FR 20318, Sept. 29, 1972, as amended by T.D. 90-51, 55 FR 28191, July 10, 1990]

# Subpart B—Articles Subject to Marking
§ 134.11
Country of origin marking required.
Unless excepted by law, section 304, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1304), requires that every article of foreign origin (or its container) imported into the United States shall be marked in a conspicuous place as legibly, indelibly, and permanently as the nature of the article (or container) will permit, in such manner as to indicate to an ultimate purchaser in the United States the English name of the country of origin of the article, at the time of importation into the Customs territory of the United States. Containers of articles excepted from marking shall be marked with the name of the country of origin of the article unless the container is also excepted from marking.
§ 134.12
Foreign articles reshipped from a U.S. possession.
Articles of foreign origin imported into any possession of the United States outside its Customs territory and reshipped to the United States are subject to all marking requirements applicable to like articles of foreign origin imported directly from a foreign country to the United States.
§ 134.13
Imported articles repacked or manipulated.
(a)
Marking requirement.
An article within the provisions of this section shall be marked with the name of the country of origin at the time the article is withdrawn for consumption unless the article and its container are exempted from marking under provisions of subpart D of this part at the time of importation.
(b)
Applicability.
The provisions of this section are applicable to the following articles:
(1) Articles repacked in a bonded warehouse under § 19.8 of this chapter;
(2) Articles manipulated under section 562, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1562), and § 19.11 of this chapter;
(3) Articles manipulated, but not manufactured, in a foreign-trade zone under § 146.32 of this chapter.
§ 134.14
Articles usually combined.
(a)
Articles combined before delivery to purchaser.
When an imported article is of a kind which is usually combined with another article after importation but before delivery to an ultimate purchaser and the name indicating the country of origin of the article appears in a place on the article so that the name will be visible after such combining, the marking shall include, in addition to the name of the country of origin, words or symbols which shall clearly show that the origin indicated is that of the imported article only and not that of any other article with which the imported article may be combined after importation.
(b)
Example.
Labels and similar articles so marked that the name of the country of origin of the label or article is visible after it is affixed to another article in this country shall be marked with additional descriptive words such as “Label made (or printed) in (name of country)” or words of similar meaning. See subpart C of this part for marking of bottles, drums, or other containers.
(c)
Applicability.
This section shall not apply to articles of a kind which are ordinarily so substantially changed in the United States that the articles in their changed condition become
products of the United States. An article excepted from marking under subpart D of this part is not within the scope of section 304(a)(2), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1304(a)(2)), and is not subject to the requirements of this section.

# Subpart C—Marking of Containers or Holders
§ 134.21
Special marking.
This subpart includes only country of origin marking requirements and exceptions under section 304(b), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1304(b)), for containers or holders. Special marking may be required by the Internal Revenue Service on alcoholic beverage bottles and other requirements may be imposed by reason of the nature of the contents by other Government agencies.
§ 134.22
General rules for marking of containers or holders.
(a)
Contents excepted from marking.
When an article is excepted from the marking requirements by subpart D of this part, the outermost container or holder in which the article ordinarily reaches the ultimate purchaser shall be marked to indicate the country of origin of the article whether or not the article is marked to indicate its country of origin.
(b)
Containers or holders treated as imported articles.
Containers or holders for imported merchandise which are subject to treatment as imported articles under the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202), shall be marked to indicate clearly the country of their own origin in addition to any marking which may be required to show the country of origin of their contents; however, no marking is required for any good of a NAFTA or USMCA country which is a usual container.
(c)
Containers or holders bearing a U.S. address.
Containers or holders of imported merchandise bearing the name and address of an importer, distributor, or other person or company in the United States shall be marked in close proximity to the U.S. address to indicate clearly the country of origin of the contents with a marking such as “Contents made in France” or “Contents Product of Spain.”
(d)
Usual containers
—(1)
“Usual container” defined.
For purposes of this subpart, a usual container means the container in which a good will ordinarily reach its ultimate purchaser. Containers which are not included in the price of the goods with which they are sold, or which impart the essential character to the whole, or which have significant uses, or lasting value independent of the contents, will generally not be regarded as usual containers. However, the fact that a container is sturdy and capable of repeated use with its contents does not preclude it from being considered a usual container so long as it is the type of container in which its contents are ordinarily sold. A usual container may be any type of container, including one which is specially shaped or fitted to contain a specific good or set of goods such as a camera case or an eyeglass case, or packing, storage and transportation materials.
(2)
A good of a NAFTA or USMCA country which is a usual container.
A good of a NAFTA or USMCA country which is a usual container, whether or not disposable and whether or not imported empty or filled, is not required to be marked with its own country of origin. If imported empty, the importer must be able to provide satisfactory evidence to Customs at the time of importation that it will be used only as a usual container (that it is to be filled with goods after importation and that such container is of a type in which these goods ordinarily reach the ultimate purchaser).
(e)
Exceptions.
Containers or holders of imported articles are not required to be marked if:
(1)
Excepted articles.
They are containers or holders of articles within the exceptions set forth in paragraph (f), (g), or (h) in § 134.32 or they are containers of a good of a NAFTA or USMCA country within the exceptions set forth in paragraph (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), (p) or (q) of § 134.32.
(2)
Excepted containers or holders.
The container or holder itself is within an exception set forth in subpart D of this part.
(3)
To be filled by the importer.
The container or holder is within the exception set forth in § 134.24(c).
[T.D. 72-262, 37 FR 20318, Sept. 29, 1972, as amended by T.D. 94-1, 58 FR 69471, Dec. 30, 1993; CBP Dec. 21-10, 86 FR 35582, July 6, 2021]
§ 134.23
Containers or holders designed for or capable of reuse.
(a)
Usual and ordinary reusable containers or holders.
Except for goods of a NAFTA or USMCA country which are usual containers, containers or holders designed for or capable of reuse after the contents have been consumed, whether imported full or empty, must be individually marked to indicate the country of their own origin with a marking such as, “Container Made in (name of country).” Examples of the containers or holders contemplated are heavy duty steel drums, tanks, and other similar shipping, storage, transportation containers or holders capable of reuse. These containers or holders are subject to the treatment specified in General Rule of Interpretation 5(b), Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202).
(b)
Other reusable containers or holders.
Containers or holders which give the whole importation its essential character, as described in General Rule of Interpretation 5(a) (19 U.S.C. 1202), must be individually marked to clearly indicate their own origin with a marking such as, “Container made in (name of country).” Examples of the containers contemplated are mustard jars reusable as beer mugs; shaving soap containers reusable as shaving mugs; fancy cologne bottles reusable as flower vases, and other containers which have a lasting value or decorative use.
[T.D. 72-262, 37 FR 20318, Sept. 29, 1972, as amended by T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51256, Dec. 21, 1988; T.D. 94-1, 58 FR 69471, Dec. 30, 1993; CBP Dec. 21-10, 86 FR 35582, July 6, 2021]
§ 134.24
Containers or holders not designed for or capable of reuse.
(a)
Containers ordinarily discarded after use.
Disposable containers or holders subject to the provisions of this section are the usual ordinary types of containers or holders, including cans, bottles, paper or polyethylene bags, paperboard boxes, and similar containers or holders which are ordinarily discarded after the contents have been consumed.
(b)
Imported empty.
Disposable containers or holders imported for distribution or sale are subject to treatment as imported articles in accordance with the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202), and shall be marked to indicate clearly the country of their own origin. However, when the containers are packed and sold in multiple units (dozens, gross, etc.), this requirement ordinarily may be met by marking the outermost container which reaches the ultimate purchaser.
(c)
Imported to be filled
—(1)
If unmarked.
When disposable containers or holders or usual containers which are goods of a NAFTA or USMCA country are imported by persons or firms who fill or package them with various products which they sell, these persons or firms are the “ultimate purchasers” of these containers or holders or usual containers which are goods of a NAFTA or USMCA country and they may be excepted from individual marking pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 1304(a)(3)(D). The outside wrappings or packages containing the containers shall be clearly marked to indicate the country of origin.
(2)
If marked.
If the disposable containers or holders or the usual containers which are goods of a NAFTA or USMCA country are marked with the country of origin at the time of importation and the marking will be visible after they are filled, the marking shall clearly indicate that the container only and not the contents were made in the named country. For example, bottles, drums, or other containers imported empty, to be filled in the United States, shall be marked with such words as “Bottle (or container) made in (name of country).”
(d)
Imported full
—(1)
When contents are excepted from marking.
Usual disposable containers in use as such at the time of importation shall not be required to be marked to show the country of their own origin, but shall be marked to indicate the origin of their contents regardless of the fact that the contents are excepted from marking requirements; however, such marking
is not required if the contents are excepted from marking requirements under paragraph (f), (g), or (h) of § 134.32 or, in the case of a good of a NAFTA or USMCA country, under paragraph (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), (p) or (q) of that section.
(2)
Sealed containers or holders.
Disposable containers or holders of imported merchandise, which are sold without normally being opened by the ultimate purchaser (e.g., individually wrapped soap bars or tennis balls in a vacuum sealed can), shall be marked to indicate the country of origin of their contents.
(3)
Unsealed containers.
Unsealed disposable containers of imported merchandise normally unopened by the ultimate purchaser, may be excepted from marking if the article is so marked that the country of origin is clearly visible without unpacking the container. However, if the container is normally opened by the ultimate purchaser prior to purchase, only the article need be marked.
[T.D. 72-262, 37 FR 20318, Sept. 29, 1972, as amended by T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51255, Dec. 21, 1988; T.D. 94-1, 58 FR 69471, Dec. 30, 1993; CBP Dec. 21-10, 86 FR 35582, July 6, 2021]
§ 134.25
Containers or holders for repacked J-list articles and articles incapable of being marked.
(a)
Certification requirements.
If an article subject to these requirements is intended to be repacked in new containers for sale to an ultimate purchaser after its release from Customs custody, or if the Center director has reason to believe such article will be repacked after its release, the importer shall certify to the Center director that: (1) If the importer does the repacking, the new container shall be marked to indicate the country of origin of the article in accordance with the requirements of this part; or (2) if the article is intended to be sold or transferred to a subsequent purchaser or repacker, the importer shall notify such purchaser or transferee, in writing, at the time of sale or transfer, that any repacking of the article must conform to these requirements. The importer, or his authorized agent, shall sign the following statement.

# Certificate of Marking—Repacked J-List Articles and Articles Incapable of Being Marked
(Port of entry)
I, of , certify that if the article(s) covered by this entry (entry no.(s) dated ), is (are) repacked in a new container(s), while still in my possession, the new containers, unless excepted, shall be marked in a conspicuous place as legibly, indelibly, and permanently as the nature of the container(s) will permit, in such manner as to indicate the country of origin of the article(s) to the ultimate purchaser(s) in accordance with the requirements of 19 U.S.C. 1304 and 19 CFR part 134. I further certify that if the article(s) is (are) intended to be sold or transferred by me to a subsequent purchaser or repacker, I will notify such purchaser or transferee, in writing, at the time of sale or transfer, of the marking requirements.
Date
Importer
The certification statement may appear as a typed or stamped statement on an appropriate entry document or commercial invoice, or on a preprinted attachment to such entry or invoice; or it may be submitted in blanket form to cover all importations of a particular product for a given period (e.g., calendar year). If the blanket procedure is used, a certification must be filed with CBP, either at the port of entry or electronically.
(b)
Facsimile signatures.
The certification statement may be signed by means of an authorized facsimile signature.
(c)
Time of filing.
The certification statement shall be filed with the Center director at the time of entry summary. If the certification is not available at that time, a bond shall be given for its production in accordance with § 141.66, Customs Regulations (19 CFR 141.66). In case of repeated failure to timely file the certification required under this section, the Center director may decline to accept a bond for the missing document and demand redelivery of the merchandise under § 134.51, Customs Regulations (19 CFR 134.51).
(d)
Notice to subsequent purchaser or repacker.
If the article is sold or transferred to a subsequent purchaser or repacker the following notice shall be given to the purchaser or repacker:

# Notice to Subsequent Purchaser or Repacker
These articles are imported. The requirements of 19 U.S.C. 1304 and 19 CFR part 134 provide that the articles or their containers must be marked in a conspicuous place as legibly, indelibly and permanently as the nature of the article or container will permit, in such a manner as to indicate to an ultimate purchaser in the United States, the English name of the country of origin of the article.
(e)
Duties and penalties.
Failure to comply with the certification requirements in paragraph (a) may subject the importer to a demand for liquidated damages under § 134.54(a) and for the additional duty under 19 U.S.C. 1304. Fraud or negligence by any person in furnishing the required certification may also result in a penalty under 19 U.S.C. 1592.
[T.D. 83-155, 48 FR 33863, July 26, 1983, as amended by CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93018, Dec. 20, 2016]
§ 134.26
Imported articles repacked or manipulated.
(a)
Certification requirements.
If an article subject to these requirements is intended to be repacked in retail containers (e.g., blister packs) after its release from Customs custody, or if the Center director has reason to believe such article will be repacked after its release, the importer shall certify to the Center director that: (1) If the importer does the repacking, he shall not obscure or conceal the country of origin marking appearing on the article, or else the new container shall be marked to indicate the country of origin of the article in accordance with the requirements of this part; or (2) if the article is intended to be sold or transferred to a subsequent purchaser or repacker, the importer shall notify such purchaser or transferee, in writing, at the time of sale or transfer, that any repacking of the article must conform to these requirements. The importer, or his authorized agent, shall sign the following statement.

# Certificate of Marking by Importer—Repacked Articles Subject to Marking
(Port of entry)
I, ________ of ________, certify that if the article(s) covered by this entry (entry no.(s) ____ dated ____), is (are) repacked in retail container(s) e.g., blister packs), while still in my possession, the new container(s) will not conceal or obscure the country of origin marking appearing on the article(s), or else the new container(s), unless excepted, shall be marked in a conspicuous place as legibly, indelibly, and permanently as the nature of the container(s) will permit, in such manner as to indicate the country of origin of the article(s) to the ultimate purchaser(s) in accordance with the requirements of 19 U.S.C. 1304 and 19 CFR part 134. I further certify that if the article(s) is (are) intended to be sold or transferred by me to a subsequent purchaser or repacker, I will notify such purchaser or transferee, in writing, at the time of sale or transfer, of the marking requirements.
Date
Importer
The certification statement may appear as a typed or stamped statement on an appropriate entry document or commercial invoice, or on a preprinted attachment to such entry or invoice; or it may be submitted in blanket form to cover all importations of a particular product for a given period (e.g., calendar year). If the blanket procedure is used, a certification must be filed with CBP, either at the port of entry or electronically.
(b)
Facsimile signatures.
The certification statement may be signed by means of an authorized facsimile signature.
(c)
Time of filing.
The certification statement shall be filed with the Center director at the time of entry summary. If the certification is not available at that time, a bond shall be given for its production in accordance with § 141.66, Customs Regulations (19 CFR 141.66). In case of repeated failure to timely file the certification required under this subsection, the Center director may decline to accept a bond for the missing document and demand redelivery of the merchandise under § 134.51, Customs Regulations (19 CFR 134.51).
(d)
Notice to subsequent purchaser or repacker.
If the article is sold or transferred to a subsequent purchaser or repacker the following notice shall be given to the purchaser or repacker:

# Notice to Subsequent Purchaser or Repacker
These articles are imported. The requirements of 19 U.S.C. 1304 and 19 CFR part 134 provide that the articles in their containers
must be marked in a conspicuous place as legibly, indelibly and permanently as the nature of the article or container will permit, in such a manner as to indicate to an ultimate purchaser in the United States, the English name of the country of origin of the article.
(e)
Duties and penalties.
Failure to comply with the certification requirements in paragraph (a) may subject the importer to a demand for liquidated damages under § 134.54(a) and for the additional duty under 19 U.S.C. 1304. Fraud or negligence by any person in furnishing the required certification may also result in a penalty under 19 U.S.C. 1592.
(f)
Exceptions.
The requirements of this section do not apply to repackaging in a container that can readily be opened for inspection by the ultimate purchaser in the United States, unless such container bears a U.S. address or other potentially misleading marking.
[T.D. 84-127, 49 FR 22795, June 1, 1984, as amended by CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93018, Dec. 20, 2016]

# Subpart D—Exceptions to Marking Requirements
§ 134.31
Requirements of other agencies.
Nothing in this subpart shall be construed as excepting any article (or its container) from the particular requirements of marking provided for in any other provision of any law, such as those of the Federal Trade Commission, Food and Drug Administration, and other agencies.
§ 134.32
General exceptions to marking requirements.
The articles described or meeting the specified conditions set forth below are excepted from marking requirements (see subpart C of this part for marking of the containers):
(a) Articles that are incapable of being marked;
(b) Articles that cannot be marked prior to shipment to the United States without injury;
(c) Articles that cannot be marked prior to shipment to the United States except at an expense economically prohibitive of its importation;
(d) Articles for which the marking of the containers will reasonably indicate the origin of the articles;
(e) Articles which are crude substances;
(f) Articles imported for use by the importer and not intended for sale in their imported or any other form;
(g) Articles to be processed in the United States by the importer or for his account otherwise than for the purpose of concealing the origin of such articles and in such manner that any mark contemplated by this part would necessarily be obliterated, destroyed, or permanently concealed;
(h) Articles for which the ultimate purchaser must necessarily know, or in the case of a good of a NAFTA or USMCA country, must reasonably know, the country of origin by reason of the circumstances of their importation or by reason of the character of the articles even though they are not marked to indicate their origin;
(i) Articles which were produced more than 20 years prior to their importation into the United States;
(j) Articles entered or withdrawn from warehouse for immediate exportation or for transportation and exportation;
(k) Products of American fisheries which are free of duty;
(l) Products of possessions of the United States;
(m) Products of the United States exported and returned;
(n) Articles exempt from duty under §§ 10.151 through 10.153, § 145.31 or § 145.32 of this chapter;
(o) Articles which cannot be marked after importation except at an expense that would be economically prohibitive unless the importer, producer, seller, or shipper failed to mark the articles before importation to avoid meeting the requirements of the law;
(p) Goods of a NAFTA or USMCA country which are original works of art; and
(q) Goods of a NAFTA or USMCA country which are provided for in subheading 6904.10 or heading 8541 or 8542 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of
the United States (HTSUS) (19 U.S.C. 1202).
[T.D. 72-262, 37 FR 20318, Sept. 29, 1972, as amended by T.D. 73-135, 38 FR 13369, May 21, 1973; T.D. 73-175, 38 FR 17447, July 2, 1973; T.D. 94-1, 58 FR 69471, Dec. 30, 1993; T.D. 94-4, 59 FR 140, Jan. 3, 1994; T.D. 96-48, 61 FR 28980, June 6, 1996; CBP Dec. 21-10, 86 FR 35582, July 6, 2021]
§ 134.33
J-List exceptions.
Articles of a class or kind listed below are excepted from the requirements of country of origin marking in accordance with the provisions of section 304(a)(3)(J), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1304(a)(3)(J)). However, in the case of any article described in this list which is imported in a container, the outermost container in which the article ordinarily reaches the ultimate purchaser is required to be marked to indicate the origin of its contents in accordance with the requirements of subpart C of this part. All articles are listed in Treasury Decisions 49690, 49835, and 49896. A reference different from the foregoing indicates an amendment.
Articles
References
Art, works of.
Articles classified under subheadings 9810.00.15, 9810.00.25, 9810.00.40 and 9810.00.45, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States
T.D. 66-153.
Articles entered in good faith as antiques and rejected as unauthentic.
Bagging, waste.
Bags, jute.
Bands, steel.
Beads, unstrung.
Bearings, ball,
5/8
-inch or less in diameter.
Blanks, metal, to be plated.
Bodies, harvest hat.
Bolts, nuts, and washers.
Briarwood in blocks.
Briquettes, coal or coke.
Buckles, 1 inch or less in greatest dimension.
Burlap.
Buttons.
Cards, playing.
Cellophane and celluloid in sheets, bands, or strips.
Chemicals, drugs, medicinal, and similar substances, when imported in capsules, pills, tablets, lozenges, or troches.
Cigars and cigarettes.
Covers, straw bottle.
Dies, diamond wire, unmounted.
Dowels, wooden.
Effects, theatrical.
Eggs.
Feathers.
Firewood.
Flooring, not further manufactured than planed, tongued and grooved
T.D.s 49750; 50366(6).
Flowers, artificial, except bunches.
Flowers, cut.
Glass, cut to shape and size for use in clocks, hand, pocket, and purse mirrors, and other glass of similar shapes and sizes, not including lenses or watch crystals.
Glides, furniture, except glides with prongs.
Hairnets.
Hides, raw.
Hooks, fish (except snelled fish hooks)
T.D. 50205(3).
Hoops (wood), barrel.
Laths.
Leather, except finished.
Livestock.
Lumber, sawed
T.D.s 49750; 50366(6).
Metal bars, except concrete reinforcement bars; billets, blocks, blooms; ingots; pigs; plates; sheets, except galvanized sheets; shafting; slabs; and metal in similar forms.
Mica not further manufactured than cut or stamped to dimensions, shape or form.
Monuments.
Nails, spikes, and staples.
Natural products, such as vegetables, fruits, nuts, berries, and live or dead animals, fish and birds; all the foregoing which are in their natural state or not advanced in any manner further than is necessary for their safe transportation.
Nets, bottle, wire.
Paper, newsprint.
Paper, stencil.
Paper, stock.
Parchment and vellum.
Parts for machines imported from same country as parts.
Pickets (wood).
Pins, tuning.
Plants, shrubs and other nursery stock.
Plugs, tie.
Poles, bamboo.
Posts (wood), fence.
Pulpwood.
Rags (including wiping rags)
Rails, joint bars, and tie plates covered by subheadings 7302.10.10 through 7302.90.00, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
Ribbon.
Rivets.
Rope, including wire rope; cordage; cords; twines, threads, and yarns.
Scrap and waste.
Screws.
Shims, track.
Shingles (wood), bundles of (except bundles of red-cedar shingles)
T.D. 49750.
Skins, fur, dressed or dyed.
Skins, raw fur.
Sponges.
Springs, watch.
Stamps, postage and revenue, and other articles covered in subheadings 9704.00.00 and 4807.00.00, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States
T.D. 66-153.
Staves (wood), barrel.
Steel, hoop.
Sugar, maple.
Ties (wood), railroad.
Tides, not over 1 inch in greatest dimension.
Timbers, sawed.
Tips, penholder.
Trees, Christmas.
Weights, analytical and precision in sets
T.D.s 49750; 51802.
Wicking, candle.
Wire, except barbed.
[T.D. 72-262, 35 FR 20318, Sept. 29, 1972, as amended by T.D. 85-123, 50 FR 29954, July 23, 1985; T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51256, Dec. 21, 1988; T.D. 95-79, 60 FR 49752, Sept. 27, 1995]
§ 134.34
Certain repacked articles.
(a)
Exception for repacked articles.
An exception under § 134.32(d) may be authorized in the discretion of the Center director for imported articles which are to be repacked after release from Customs custody under the following conditions:
(1) The containers in which the articles are repacked will indicate the origin of the articles to an ultimate purchaser in the United States.
(2) The importer arranges for supervision of the marking of the containers by Customs officers at the importer's expense or secures such verification, as may be necessary, by certification and the submission of a sample or otherwise, of the marking prior to the liquidation of the entry.
(b)
Liquidation of entries.
The liquidation of such entries may be deferred for a period of not more than 60 days from the date that a request for repacking is granted. Extensions of the 60-day deferral period may be granted by the Center director in his discretion upon written application by the importer.
[T.D. 84-127, 49 FR 22795, June 1, 1984]
§ 134.35
Articles substantially changed by manufacture.
(a)
Articles other than goods of a NAFTA or USMCA country.
An article used in the United States in manufacture which results in an article having a name, character, or use differing from that of the imported article, will be within the principle of the decision in the case of United States v. Gibson-Thomsen Co., Inc., 27 C.C.P.A. 267 (C.A.D. 98). Under this principle, the manufacturer or processor in the United States who converts or combines the imported article into the different article will be considered the “ultimate purchaser” of the imported article within the contemplation of section 304(a), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1304(a)), and the article shall be excepted from marking. The outermost containers of the imported articles shall be marked in accord with this part.
(b)
Goods of a NAFTA or USMCA country.
A good of a NAFTA or USMCA country which is to be processed in the United States in a manner that would result in the good becoming a good of the United States under the part 102 Rules is excepted from marking. Unless the good is processed by the importer or on its behalf, the outermost container of the good shall be marked in accord with this part.
[T.D. 72-262, 37 FR 20318, Sept. 29, 1972, as amended by T.D. 94-1, 58 FR 69472, Dec. 30, 1993; CBP Dec. 21-10, 86 FR 35582, July 6, 2021]
§ 134.36
Inapplicability of marking exception for articles processed by importer.
An article which is to be processed in the United States by the importer or for his account shall not be considered to be within the specifications of section 304(a)(3)(G), of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1304(a)(3)(G)), if there is a reasonable method of marking which will not be obliterated, destroyed, or permanently concealed by such processing.
[T.D. 72-262, 37 FR 20318, Sept. 29, 1972, as amended by T.D. 97-72, 62 FR 44214, Aug. 20, 1997]

# Subpart E—Method and Location of Marking Imported Articles
§ 134.41
Methods and manner of marking.
(a)
Suggested methods of marking.
Section 304 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1304), requires that the marking of the country of origin be legible, indelible, and permanent. Definite methods of marking are prescribed only for articles provided for in § 134.43 and for articles which are the objects of special rulings by the Commissioner of Customs. As a general rule, marking requirements are best met by marking worked into the article at the time of manufacture. For example, it is suggested that the country of origin on metal articles be die sunk, molded in or etched; on earthenware or chinaware be glazed on in the process of firing; and on paper articles be imprinted.
(b)
Degree of permanence and visibility.
The degree of permanence should be at least sufficient to insure that in any reasonably foreseeable circumstance, the marking shall remain on the article (or its container) until it reaches the ultimate purchaser unless it is deliberately removed. The marking must survive normal distribution and store handling. The ultimate purchaser in the United States must be able to find the marking easily and read it without strain.
§ 134.42
Specific method may be required.
Marking merchandise by specific methods, such as die stamping, cast-in-the-mold lettering, etching, or engraving, or cloth labels may be required by the Commissioner of Customs in accordance with section 304(a), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1304(a)). Notices of such rulings shall be published in the
Federal Register
and the Customs Bulletin.
§ 134.43
Methods of marking specific articles.
(a)
Marking previously required by certain provisions of the Tariff Act of 1930.
Except for goods of a NAFTA or USMCA country, articles of a class or kind listed below shall be marked legibly and conspicuously by die stamping, cast-in-the-mold lettering, etching (acid or electrolytic), engraving, or by means of metal plates which bear the prescribed marking and which are securely attached to the article in a conspicuous place by welding, screws, or rivets: knives, forks, steels, cleavers, clippers, shears, scissors, safety razors, blades for safety razors, surgical instruments, dental instruments, scientific and laboratory instruments, pliers, pincers, nippers and hinged hand tools for holding and splicing wire, vacuum containers, and parts of the above articles. Goods of a NAFTA or USMCA country shall be marked by any reasonable method which is legible, conspicuous and permanent as otherwise provided in this part.
(b)
Watch, clock, and timing apparatus.
The country of origin marking requirements on watches, clocks, and timing apparatus are intensive and require special methods. (See § 11.9 of this chapter and Chapter 91, Additional U.S. Note 4, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202)).
(c)
Native American-style jewelry
—(1)
Definition.
For the purpose of this provision, Native American-style jewelry is jewelry which incorporates traditional Native American design motifs, materials and/or construction and therefore looks like, and could possibly be mistaken for, jewelry made by Native Americans.
(2)
Method of marking.
Except as provided in 19 U.S.C. 1304(a)(3) and in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, Native American-style jewelry must be indelibly marked with the country of origin by cutting, die-sinking, engraving, stamping, or some other permanent method. The indelible marking must appear legibly on the clasp or in some other conspicuous location, or alternatively, on a metal or plastic tag indelibly marked with the country of origin and permanently attached to the article.
(3)
Exception.
If it is technically or commercially infeasible to mark in the manner specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, or in the case of a good of a NAFTA or USMCA country, the article may be marked by means of a string tag or adhesive label securely affixed, or some other similar method.
(d)
Native American-style arts and crafts
—(1)
Definition.
For the purpose of
this provision, Native American-style arts and crafts are arts and crafts, such as pottery, rugs, kachina dolls, baskets and beadwork, which incorporate traditional Native American design motifs, materials and/or construction and therefore look like, and could possibly be mistaken for, arts and crafts made by Native Americans.
(2)
Method of Marking.
Except as provided for in 19 U.S.C. 1304(a)(3) and § 134.32 of this part, Native American-style arts and crafts must be indelibly marked with the country of origin by means of cutting, die-sinking, engraving, stamping, or some other equally permanent method. On textile articles, such as rugs, a sewn in label is considered to be an equally permanent method.
(3)
Exception.
Where it is technically or commercially infeasible to mark in the manner specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, or in the case of a good of a NAFTA or USMCA country, the article may be marked by means of a string tag or adhesive label securely affixed, or some other similar method.
(e)
Assembled articles.
Where an article is produced as a result of an assembly operation and the country of origin of such article is determined under this chapter to be the country in which the article was finally assembled, such article may be marked, as appropriate, in a manner such as the following:
(1) Assembled in (country of final assembly);
(2) Assembled in (country of final assembly) from components of (name of country or countries of origin of all components); or
(3) Made in, or product of, (country of final assembly).
[T.D. 72-262, 37 FR 20318, Sept. 29, 1972, as amended by T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51255, Dec. 21, 1988; T.D. 89-88, 54 FR 39524, Sept. 27, 1989; T.D. 90-75, 55 FR 38317, Sept. 18, 1990; T.D. 90-78, 55 FR 40166, Oct. 2, 1990; T.D. 94-1, 58 FR 69472, Dec. 30, 1993; T.D. 94-4, 59 FR 140, Jan. 3, 1994; T.D. 96-48, 61 FR 28980, June 6, 1996; CBP Dec. 21-10, 86 FR 35582, July 6, 2021]
§ 134.44
Location and other acceptable methods of marking.
(a)
Other acceptable methods.
Except for articles described in § 134.43 of this part or the subject of a ruling by the Commissioner of Customs, any method of marking at any location insuring that country of origin will conspicuously appear on the article shall be acceptable. Such marking must be legible and sufficiently permanent so that it will remain on the article (or its container when the container and not the article is required to be marked) until it reaches the ultimate purchaser unless deliberately removed.
(b)
Articles marked with paper sticker labels.
If paper sticker or pressure sensitive labels are used, they must be affixed in a conspicuous place and so securely that unless deliberately removed they will remain on the article while it is in storage or on display and until it is delivered to the ultimate purchaser.
(c)
Articles marked with tags.
When tags are used, they must be attached in a conspicuous place and in a manner which assures that unless deliberately removed they will remain on the article until it reaches the ultimate purchaser.
[T.D. 72-262, 37 FR 20318, Sept. 29, 1972, as amended by T.D. 94-1, 58 FR 69472, Dec. 30, 1993]
§ 134.45
Approved markings of country name.
(a)
Language.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the markings required by this part shall include the full English name of the country of origin, unless another marking to indicate the English name of the country of origin is specifically authorized by the Commissioner of Customs. Notice of acceptable markings other than the full English name of the country of origin shall be published in the
Federal Register
and the Customs Bulletin.
(2) A good of a NAFTA or USMCA country may be marked with the name of the country of origin in English, French or Spanish.
(b)
Abbreviations and variant spellings.
Abbreviations which unmistakably indicate the name of a country, such as “Gt. Britain” for “Great Britain” or “Luxemb” and “Luxembg” for “Luxembourg” are acceptable. Variant spellings which clearly indicate the English name of the country of origin, such as “Brasil” for “Brazil” and “Italie” for “Italy,” are acceptable.
(c)
Adjectival form.
The adjectival form of the name of a country shall be accepted as a proper indication of the name of the country of origin of imported merchandise provided the adjectival form of the name does not appear with other words so as to refer to a kind or species of product. For example, such terms as “English walnuts” or “Brazil nuts” are unacceptable.
(d)
Colonies, possessions, or protectorates.
The name of a colony, possession, or protectorate outside the boundaries of the mother country shall usually be considered acceptable marking. When the Commissioner of Customs finds that the name is not sufficiently well known to insure that the ultimate purchasers will be fully informed of the country of origin, or where the name appearing alone may cause confusion, deception, or mistake, clarifying words shall be required. In such cases, the Commissioner of Customs shall specify in decisions published in the
Federal Register
and the Customs Bulletin the additional wording to be used in conjunction with the name of the colony, possession, or protectorate.
[T.D. 72-262, 37 FR 20318, Sept. 29, 1972, as amended by T.D. 94-1, 58 FR 69472, Dec. 30, 1993; CBP Dec. 21-10, 86 FR 35582, July 6, 2021]
§ 134.46
Marking when name of country or locality other than country of origin appears.
In any case in which the words “United States,” or “American,” the letters “U.S.A.,” any variation of such words or letters, or the name of any city or location in the United States, or the name of any foreign country or locality other than the country or locality in which the article was manufactured or produced appear on an imported article or its container, and those words, letters or names may mislead or deceive the ultimate purchaser as to the actual country of origin of the article, there shall appear legibly and permanently in close proximity to such words, letters or name, and in at least a comparable size, the name of the country of origin preceded by “Made in,” “Product of,” or other words of similar meaning.
[T.D. 97-72, 62 FR 44214, Aug. 20, 1997]
§ 134.47
Souvenirs and articles marked with trademarks or trade names.
When as part of a trademark or trade name or as part of a souvenir marking, the name of a location in the United States or “United States” or “America” appear, the article shall be legibly, conspicuously, and permanently marked to indicate the name of the country of origin of the article preceded by “Made in,” “Product of,” or other similar words, in close proximity or in some other conspicuous location.

# Subpart F—Articles Found Not Legally Marked
§ 134.51
Procedure when importation found not legally marked.
(a)
Notice to mark or redeliver.
When articles or containers are found upon examination not to be legally marked, the Center director shall notify the importer on Customs Form 4647, or its electronic equivalent, to arrange with the Center director's office to properly mark the article or containers, or to return all released articles to Customs custody for marking, exportation, or destruction.
(b)
Identification of articles.
When an imported article which is not legally marked is to be exported, destroyed, or marked under Customs supervision, the identity of the imported article shall be established to the satisfaction of the Center director.
(c)
Supervision.
Verification of marking, exportation, or destruction of articles found not to be legally marked shall be at the expense of the importer and shall be performed under Customs supervision unless the Center director accepts a certificate of marking as provided for in § 134.52 in lieu of marking under Customs supervision.
[T.D. 72-262, 37 FR 20318, Sept. 29, 1972, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61288, Oct. 13, 2015]
§ 134.52
Certificate of marking.
(a)
Applicability.
Center directors may accept certificates of marking supported by samples of articles required to be marked, for which Customs Form 4647, or its electronic equivalent, was issued, from importers or from actual owners complying with the provision of
§ 141.20 of this chapter, to certify that marking of the country of origin on imported articles as required by this part has been accomplished.
(b)
Filing of certificates of marking.
The certificates of marking shall be filed in duplicate with CBP, either at the port of entry or electronically, and a sample of the marked merchandise shall accompany the certificate. The Center director may waive the production of the marked sample when he is satisfied that the submission of such sample is impracticable.
(c)
Notice of acceptance.
The Center director shall notify the importer or actual owner when the certificate of marking is accepted. Such notice of acceptance may be granted on the duplicate copy of the certificate of marking by use of a stamped notation of acceptance. The Center director is authorized to spot check the marking of articles on which a certificate has been filed. If a spot check is performed, the approved copy of the certificate, if approval is granted, shall be returned to the importer or actual owner after the spot check is completed.
(d)
Filing of false certificate of marking.
If a false certificate of marking is filed with the Center director indicating that goods have been properly marked when in fact they have not been so marked, a seizure shall be made or claim for monetary penalty reported under section 592, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1592). In addition, in cases involving, willful deceit, a criminal case report may be made charging a violation of section 1001, title 18, United States Code, which provides for a fine up to $10,000 and/or imprisonment up to 5 years for anyone who willfully conceals a material fact or uses any document knowing the same to contain any false or fraudulent statement in connection with any matter within the jurisdiction of an agency of the United States.
(e)
Authority to require physical supervision when deemed necessary.
The Center director may require physical supervision of marking as specified in § 134.51(c) in those cases in which he determines that such action is necessary to insure compliance with this part. In such cases the expenses of the Customs officer shall be reimbursed to the Government as provided for in § 134.55.
[T.D. 72-262, 37 FR 20318, Sept. 29, 1972, as amended by T.D. 73-175, 38 FR 17447, July 2, 1973; T.D. 84-18, 49 FR 1678, Jan. 13, 1984; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61288, Oct. 13, 2015; CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93018, Dec. 20, 2016]
§ 134.53
Examination packages.
(a)
Site of marking
—(1)
Customs custody.
Articles (or containers) in examination packages may be marked by the importer at the place where they have been discharged from the importing or bonded carrier or in the public stores.
(2)
Importer's premises or elsewhere.
If it is impracticable to mark the articles (or containers) in examination packages as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the merchandise may be turned over to the importer after the amount of duty, estimated to be payable under 19 U.S.C. 1304(f) has been deposited to insure compliance with the marking requirements and the payment of any additional expense which will be incurred on account of Customs supervision. (See § 134.55.) The Center director may at his discretion accept the bond on Customs Form 301, containing the basic importation and entry bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter as security for the requirements of 19 U.S.C. 1304 (f) and (g).
(b)
Failure to export, destroy, or properly mark merchandise in examination packages.
If the articles (or containers) in examination packages are not exported, destroyed, or properly marked by the importer within a reasonable time (not more than 30 days), they shall be sent to general-order stores for disposition in accordance with part 127 of this chapter, unless covered by a warehouse entry. If covered by a warehouse entry, they shall be sent to the warehouse containing the rest of the shipment for marking prior to withdrawal.
[T.D. 72-262, 37 FR 20318, Sept. 29, 1972, as amended by T.D. 78-99, 43 FR 13061, Mar. 29, 1978; T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41183, Oct. 19, 1984; T.D. 90-51, 55 FR 28191, July 10, 1990]
§ 134.54
Articles released from Customs custody.
(a)
Demand for liquidated damages.
If within 30 days from the date of the notice of redelivery, or such additional period as the Center director may allow for good cause shown, the importer does not properly mark or redeliver all merchandise previously released to him, the port director shall demand payment of liquidated damages incurred under the bond in an amount equal to the entered value of the articles not properly marked or redelivered.
(b)
Failure to petition for relief.
A written petition addressed to the Commissioner of Customs for relief from the payment of liquidated damages may be filed with the Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer in accord with part 172 of this chapter.
(c)
Relief from full liquidated damages.
Any relief from the payment of the full liquidated damages incurred will be contingent upon the deposit of the marking duty required by 19 U.S.C. 1304(f), and the satisfaction of the Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer that the importer was not guilty of bad faith in permitting the illegally marked articles to be distributed, has been diligent in attempting to secure compliance with the marking requirements, and has attempted by all reasonable means to effect redelivery of the merchandise.
[T.D. 72-262, 37 FR 20318, Sept. 29, 1972, as amended by T.D. 79-159, 44 FR 31969, June 4, 1979; T.D. 83-217, 48 FR 48659, Oct. 20, 1983; T.D. 90-51, 55 FR 28191, July 10, 1990; T.D. 99-27, 64 FR 13675, Mar. 22, 1999; T.D. 00-57, 65 FR 53575, Sept. 5, 2000; CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93018, Dec. 20, 2016]
§ 134.55
Compensation of Customs officers and employees.
(a)
Time for which compensation is charged.
The time for which compensation is charged shall include all periods devoted to supervision and all periods during which Customs officers or employees are away from their regular posts of duty by reason of such assignment and for which compensation to such officers and employees is provided for by law.
(b)
Applicability
—(1)
Official hours.
The compensation of Customs Officers or employees assigned to supervise the exportation, destruction, or marking of articles so as to exempt them from the application of marking duties shall be computed in accordance with the provisions of §§ 24.16 or 24.17(a)(3), respectively, of this chapter when such supervision is performed during a regularly-scheduled tour of duty.
(2)
Overtime.
When such supervision is performed by a Customs Officer or employee in an overtime status, the compensation with respect to the overtime shall be computed in accordance with the provisions of § 24.16 or § 24.17, respectively, of this chapter.
(c)
Expenses included.
In formulating charges for expenses pertaining to supervision of exportation, destruction, or marking, there shall be included all expenses of transportation, per diem allowance in lieu of subsistence, and all other expenses incurred by reason of such supervision from the time the Customs officer leaves his official station until he returns thereto.
(d)
Services rendered for more than one importer.
If the importations of more than one importer are concurrently supervised, the service rendered for each importer shall be regarded as a separate assignment, but the total amount of the compensation, and any expenses properly applicable to more than one importer, shall be equitably apportioned among the importers concerned.
[T.D. 72-262, 37 FR 20318, Sept. 29, 1972, as amended by T.D. 94-74, 59 FR 46757, Sept. 12, 1994]
PARTS 135-140 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
Chapter I Subject Index
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
19 CFR Ch. I (4-1-25 Edition)
Subject Index

# Chapter I—Subject Index

# Editorial Note:
This listing is provided for information purposes only. It is compiled and kept up-to-date by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security, Department of the Treasury. This index is updated as of April 1, 2025.
The number preceding the decimal is the part number. The number following the decimal is the section number. The letter “N” indicates a footnote.
10+2 (See IMPORTER SECURITY FILING), Part 149
A
ABANDONED MERCHANDISE (See, Unclaimed and Abandoned Merchandise)
ABORTION
12.40(f), 12.40(h), 145.52
ACCOUNTS
Bills for sums due
24.3
Inventory control and record-keeping system
19.12
Overtime service, charges for
24.16
Sale of merchandise; presentation
127.35
Services of officers, reimbursable
24.17
ACH (See, Automated Clearinghouse)
ACTUAL USE
10.131, 10.133, 10.134, 10.137-10.139, 54.5
ADJUSTMENT OF DUTIES (Withdrawals from warehouse for Consumption)
144.38
ADMINISTRATIVE DUTY EXEMPTIONS
10.151-10.153, 128.24(e), 145.31-145.34, 148.12(b), 148.51-148.55, 148.64, 159.6
ADMINISTRATIVE OVERHEAD CHARGES
24.21
ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW
Authority to review
173.1
Commissioner's decision
158.30(b)
Mail entries
145.21-145.26
Port director's decision
158.30(a)
Review of entry
Covering household and personal effects
173.5
Reviewable transactions
173.2
Voluntary reliquidation
173.3
ADMINISTRATIVE RULINGS
Drawback rulings
General manufacturing drawback rulings
191.7
Specific manufacturing drawback rulings
191.8
General Ruling Procedure
Part 177, subpart A
Change in status of transaction
177.5
Change of practice
177.10(c)
Coastwise transportation of merchandise
4.80b
Completed transactions, not subject to
177.1(a)(2)(ii)
Current (ongoing) transactions
177.1(a)(2)(i), 177.11(b)
Definitions
177.1(d)
Drawback rulings
191.7, 191.8
Effect of ruling letters
177.9
Inconsistent customs decisions
177.13
Internal advice
177.11
NAFTA (North American Free Trade Agreement)
Advance Ruling Procedures
Part 181, subpart I
Review and Appeal of Adverse Marking Decisions
Part 181, subpart J
Nonconforming requests for rulings
177.3
Oral discussions
177.4
Prospective transactions
177.1(a)(1)
Publication of decisions
177.10
Requests for advice by field offices
177.11
Submission of ruling requests
How to submit request for
177.2
When requests for rulings will not be issued
177.1(a)(1), (2)
Withdrawal of ruling requests
177.6
Government procurement, country-of-origin determinations
Part 177, subpart B
Applicability
177.21
Country of origin advisory ruling
By whom a request is filed
177.24
Form and content of request
177.25
Issuance
177.28
Oral discussion of issues
177.27
Where request filed
177.26
Who may request
177.23
Definitions
177.22
Final determinations
Issuance
177.28
Publication of notice
177.29
Review
177.30
Reexamination
177.31
Request
177.23
ADMINISTRATOR OR EXECUTOR—Entry by
141.14
AD VALOREM USER FEE MERCHANDISE
24.23
ADVANCE ELECTRONIC INFORMATION FOR AIR, TRUCK AND RAIL CARGO EXEMPT FROM DISCLOSURE
103.31a
ADVANCE FILING OF VESSEL CARGO DECLARATION (“24-hour” rule)
4.7, 4.7a
ADVANCE ELECTRONIC INFORMATION FOR CARGO ARRIVING BY RAIL, TRUCK, VESSEL OR AIRCRAFT
123.91, 123.92, 4.7, 122.48(a)
ADVANCE ELECTRONIC INFORMATION FOR CREW MEMBERS AND NON-CREW MEMBERS ONBOARD COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT ARRIVING IN, CONTINUING WITHIN, AND OVERFLYING THE UNITED STATES
122.49b, 122.75b
ADVANCE ELECTRONIC INFORMATION FOR PRIVATE AIRCRAFT ARRIVING AND DEPARTING THE U.S.
122.22, 122.31, 122.154
ADVANCE IN VALUE—Notice to importer
152.2
ADVERTISEMENTS
Sale of unclaimed and abandoned merchandise
127.25
Sale of seized perishable and other property
162.48
Seizure and intent to forfeit property
162.45
AFRICA
Special duty-free treatment
10.178a
Trade benefits to designated sub-Saharan
10.211-217
AGENCIES, OTHER
12.1, 12.16, 145.56, 145.57,161.2
AGENT, DECLARATION BY, ON ENTRY
141.19
AGRICULTURAL AND VEGETABLE SEEDS
Admittance requirements
12.16
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES, AND CANADA
Rules of Origin
Part 102
AGREEMENT ON TRADE IN CEMENT
12.155, Appendix to Part 163 Interim (a)(1)(A) List
AIR COMMERCE REGULATIONS
Access to Customs security areas
Part 122, subpart S
Air carrier smuggling prevention program
Part 122, subpart R
Electronic manifest requirements
Part 122, subparts E and F
AIRCRAFT
Accidental damage
10.107
Advance electronic information for crew members and non-crew members onboard commercial aircraft arriving in, continuing within, and overflying the U.S.
122.49b, 122.75b
Advance electronic information for private aircraft arriving and departing the U.S.
122.22, 122.31, 122.154
Air cabotage
122.165
Application to private aircraft
122.21
Arrival
Advance notice
122.22, 122.31
Private aircraft from south of U.S.
122.23-122.25
Private aircraft, defined
122.23(a)
Arriving, search of
162.5
Baggage
Part 122, subpart K
Bonds international carrier condition
113.64
Brought-in for temporary use under international traffic
10.41, Part 122
Certificate
122.94
Civil
10.183
Clearance and permission to depart
Part 122, subpart G
Clearance
Contiguous country, from
122.87
Contiguous transport
4.85
Customs laws and regulations applicable
122.2, 122.30, 122.161
Documents
122.3, 122.5, Part 122, subpart H
Emergency landing
122.35, 122.37
Failure to depart
122.65
General requirements
Part 122, subparts E and F, 122.61
Scheduled airlines
122.63
Crew list
122.45, 122.46
Entry
Documents required
122.42
General order merchandise or baggage
122.50
General requirements
122.2, 122.30, 122.41-122.49, 122.161
Landing requirements
Part 122, subpart D
Scheduled airlines
122.41, 122.42, 122.63
Equipment, supplies, spare parts for searches, etc. for accidentally damaged aircraft
10.107
Fees, private aircraft
24.22(e)
Forced landings
122.35
Foreign-owned, brought in for temporary stay, when entry required
10.41, 122.53
Forfeiture and sale
162.45
Forms of documents
122.3-122.5
Inspection of documents
162.5
Landing
Emergency or forced
122.35
Exemption from
122.25
Requirements
122.24, Part 122, subpart D
Liquor kits
Part 122, subpart M
Passengers
122.88
Penalties
Limitation of
122.161
Petitions, relief from penalties and forfeitures
122.161, Part 171
Smuggling, aviation
122.167
Permit and special license to unlade and lade
122.38
Permit, international traffic
Part 122, subpart F
Permit to proceed, when required
122.32, 122.41, 122.83
Precleared
122.37
Private aircraft
Part 122, subpart G
Advance passenger information requirements
122.22
Application
122.21
Arrival
122.22, 122.23, 122.31
Departure
122.22, 122.31
Documents required
122.27
Entry and clearance
122.26
Landing requirements
122.24, 122.25
List of designated airports
122.24
Notice of arrival
122.22, 122.23, 122.31, 122.154
Taken abroad by U.S. residents
122.28
Overtime service
122.29
Repair or alteration
10.36a
Residue cargo
Part 122, subpart I
Responsibility of aircraft commander
122.36
Seized
Appraisement
162.43
Award or sale
162.45, 162.46
Transfer to another port for sale
162.46
Seizure
When used in or employed to aid in unlawful importation of merchandise
122.161, 161.2, 162.22
Supplies and equipment, foreign trade zone, removal
146.42
Stores list
122.47
Substitution
122.86
Supplies and stores aboard arriving aircraft
122.43, 122.47
Supplies for, exempt from duty and internal-revenue tax
10.59
Taken abroad for temporary use, tariff status on return
148.32
Tobacco products for use on
10.65
Transit air cargo
Documentation
122.112-122.114, 122.116
Exportation at port of arrival
122.118
Labeling of
122.115
Manifest procedures
Part 122, subpart L
Penalties
Part 122, subpart Q
Requirements for
122.117
Shipments to interior port
122.164
Time limits, delivering and exportation
122.119
Transfer to another port for export
122.120
Virgin Islands, flight to and from
Part 122, subpart N
Transportation in bond and merchandise in transit
Part 122, subpart J
Withdrawal of turbine fuel
10.62b
AIRCRAFT, AUTOMOBILES, AND TRAILERS STOLEN AND RETURNED FROM MEXICO-LBCIP
123.82
AIRMEN, RESIDENT—Registration of valuable effects
148.1
AIRPORTS
Customs security areas
Part 122, subpart S
International
Defined
122.1(e)
Designated as international
122.11
Listed
122.13
Operation
122.12
Landing rights
122.1(f), 122.14
Defined
122.1(f)
Operation
122.14
Permission to land
122.14, 122.15, 122.33
Private aircraft, list of airports designated for
122.24
User-fee
122.1(m), 122.15
Defined
122.1(m)
Listed
122.15
ALCOHOL, ETHYL—Importation for non-beverage purposes
10.99
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Belonging to crewmember
148.64
Import taxes
24.4
Imported by nonresidents
148.8, 148.43
Imported in bottles and similar containers, regulations of Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms applicable
11.7
Imported or destined to foreign countries via U.S. on small vessels, bond for foreign landing certificate
4.13
In baggage of returning residents
148.33
Mail importations of
145.54
Trade fair, entered for
147.22
Vessels not over 500 tons, on
4.13
ALLOWANCE
Claim for moisture in sugar
151.23
Drawback
191.4
Excessive moisture petroleum
151.46, 158.13
Losses, clean yield of wool and hair, defined
151.61
Smelting and refining (metal-bearing materials)
19.18, 151.55
Wastage in smelting and refining
19.18, 19.19
ALTERATIONS (See also, REPAIRS)
Articles
Exported
10.8
Imported
10.36a
Re-entered
ALUMINUM AND ALLOYS, ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REQUIRED ON INVOICE
141.89
AMERICAN FISHERIES, ENTRY OF PRODUCTS OF
10.78
AMERICAN GOODS RETURNED
10.1, 10.103, 145.35
Animals straying or driven across border
10.74
Articles assembled abroad with U.S. components
10.11-10.18, 10.21, 10.23-10.26
Certificate of exportation, form, contents, and disposition
10.1
Cloth boards
10.5
Containers or coverings
10.3
Containers, substantial
10.3, 10.7
Declaration of
Foreign shipper, form and use
10.1
Owner, form
10.1, 145.35
Drawback paid, dutiable or not dutiable
10.3
Drums, drawback, amount to be paid
10.3, 10.7
Entry requirements
10.1, 145.35
Government importations, procedure
10.103
Internal-revenue marks on containers, removal of
10.4
Mail
145.35
Merchandise exported from bonded manufacturing warehouse, duties
10.3
Motion-picture films, exhibited on vessels, etc., or otherwise
10.68
Shooks and staves
Certificates
Boxmaker—Form 4455
10.6
Exportation—Form 4455
10.5
Theatrical effects
10.68
Tools of trade
10.68
AMERICAN SAMOA
7.2, 148.101, 148.102, Part 148, subpart K, 191.5
AMMUNITION, IMPORTS AND EXPORTS
161.2
ANDEAN TRADE PREFERENCE ACT (ATPA)
Part 10, Subpart C
ANDEAN TRADE PROMOTION AND DRUG ERADICATION ACT
Apparel and Other Textile Articles Under the Andean Trade Promotion and Drug Eradication Act
Part 10, Subpart F
Additional requirements for preferential treatment of brassieres
10.248
Applicability
10.241
Articles eligible for preferential treatment
10.243
Certificate of origin
10.244
Definitions
10.242
Filing of claim for preferential treatment
10.245
Maintenance of records and submission of certificate by importer
10.246
Verification and justification of claim for preferential treatment
10.247
Extension of ATPA Benefits to Tuna and Certain Other Non-Textile Articles
10.251-10.257
Applicability
10.251
Articles eligible for preferential treatment
10.253
Certificate of Origin
10.254
Definitions
10.252
Filing of claim for preferential treatment
10.255
Maintenance of records and submission of Certificate by importer
10.256
Verification and justification of claim for preferential treatment
10.257
ANIMAL
PLANT HEALTH INSPECTION SERVICE, U.S.D.A.
Animals, domestic, and animal by-products, etc.
Jurisdiction
12.24
Animals for export, inspection by
4.71
Animals, purebred, inspection by
10.70
Meat and meat-food products
For export—inspection, certification
4.61, 4.72
Imported, inspection by
12.8, 12.9
Notice of arrival of viruses, serums, and toxins to be furnished to
12.17
ANIMAL BY-PRODUCTS, FEEDING MATERIALS, ETC.—Entry procedure
12.24
ANIMAL CASINGS, RELEASE—Restriction
12.9
ANIMAL FEEDING MATERIALS—Inspection
12.24
ANIMALS
Brought in for breeding, exhibition, or competition for prizes
10.33, 10.70, 10.71
Domestic
Importation procedure
12.24
Pastured or strayed abroad, dutiable status upon return
10.3(e), 10.74
Dying
During bond period
10.39(c)
While under transportation entry
18.6
Exportation of, inspection by Department of Agriculture
4.71
Exported for exhibition, return, entry requirements
10.66
Feeding and watering of (in-transit through Canada)
123.27
Game
Killed for noncommercial purposes
10.76(d)
Live, for stocking purposes
10.76(a)
Offspring, foreign pasturage and strays
10.74
Purebred, entry
10.70, 10.71
Seizure of, when used in or employed to aid in unlawful importation of merchandise
162.22
Straying or driven across border
10.74
Temporary importation bond
10.31
Theatrical effects, as
10.33
Wild
Importation procedure
10.76, 12.26-12.28
Scientific or educational purposes, for
10.75
Zoological collection
10.75
ANTIDUMPING MATTERS
159.58
Investigation of Claims of Evasion
165
ANTIQUES
10.53
APIS, (Advance Passenger Information System)
4.64, 122.22(b), 122.49a, 122.49b, 122.49c, 122.75a, 122.75b
APPEALS
By domestic interested party(ies)
Part 175
Centralized Examination Stations
118.23(a)
Commercial gaugers
151.13
Commercial laboratories
151.12
Customs brokers
111.75
Decision of Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
176.31(b)
Decision of Court of International Trade
176.31(a)
Notice of appeal to U. S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
176.2
Request for records, from denial of
103.5-103.7
Suspension or revocation of license, cartage or lighterage
112.30
APPORTIONMENT, ASSISTS, TRADE AGREEMENTS ACT OF 1979
152.103(e)
APPRAISEMENT
Basis for
Articles assembled abroad with U.S. components, exported to the U.S. prior to July 1, 1980
10.18
Basis of appraisement, Trade Agreements Act of 1979, when
152.101
Computed value, Trade Agreements Act of 1979, when
152.106
Country of exportation
152.23
Deductive value, Trade Agreements Act of 1979, when
152.105
Definition, Trade Agreements Act of 1979
152.102
Dutiable charges defined for articles exported to the U.S. prior to July 1, 1980
152.101
Exportation, time of
152.1(c)
Interpretative notes, Trade Agreements Act of 1979
152.100
Property under seizure, subject to forfeiture, or prohibited merchandise
162.43
Transaction value
Identical merchandise and similar merchandise
152.104
Trade Agreements Act of 1979
152.103
Unacceptable bases of appraisement, Trade Agreements Act of 1979
152.108
Unclaimed and abandoned merchandise
127.23
Value if other values cannot be determined, Trade Agreements Act of 1979
152.107
Entries (Appraisement entries)
Form and procedure
143.12-143.16
Liquidation of
159.9
Merchandise eligible for
143.11
Examination
At importer's premises
151.7(a)
At place where assembled
151.8(c)
At place of arrival
151.6, 151.7
At public stores
151.6, 151.7
At wharf
151.6, 151.7
Cording and sealing, when required
151.7(a)
Expenses of, when assessed
151.7(c)
Information as to values prior to appraisement, request of importer
152.26
Loss, theft, injury, or destruction of merchandise in public stores
158.21
Merchandise
Entered by false documents
152.103
Produced in one country, imported from another
152.23
Protests
Domestic interested party(ies)
Part 175
By importer or consignee
174.11, 174.12
Quantities to be examined
151.2
Samples from packages not designated, request
151.11
Samples, when permitted
151.10, 151.11
Seized property
162.43
Time period
158.21
Unclaimed and abandoned merchandise
127.23
ARMED FORCES OF THE U.S.—Household and personal effects
148.74
ARMS, AMMUNITION AND IMPLEMENTS OF WAR
Controlled imports and exports, seizure of
161.2, 145.53
Exportation
4.61, 4.73, 145.53, 161.2
Mail importations
145.59
ARMY AND NAVY TRANSPORTS
Baggage declaration and manifest
148.73
Manifest of passengers and baggage
4.5
Search
162.3(b)
ARRESTS, WHO MAY MAKE
162.22
ART, WORKS OF
10.48, 10.49, 10.52-10.54
ARTICLES
Agreements in restraint of trade, imported under—special duties
159.44
Assembled abroad with U.S. components
10.11-10.26
Appraisement
Basis of appraisement
152.101
Transaction value
152.103
Valuation of assembled articles
10.18
Valuation of exempted components
10.17
Assembly operations abroad
10.16
Definitions
10.12
Documents required
10.24
Fabricated components
Subject to exemption
10.14
Not subject to exemption
10.15
Operations incidental to assembly process
10.16(b)
Operations not incidental to assembly process
10.16(c)
Quotas, standards and visas
10.23
Subheading 9802.00.80, HTSUS
10.13
Substantial transformation of foreign-made articles or materials
10.14(b)
Updating cost data and other information
10.21
Bearing trade-marks or trade names
133.21-133.24
Disposition of, not properly marked
134.51-134.53
Exported for exhibition, return of—entry requirements
10.66
Exported
For processing
10.9
For reimportation
10.8a
For scientific, or educational purposes, return of
10.67
For testing, experimental, or review purposes—Temporary importation bond
10.31
Gold or silver, marking—False, penalty
11.13
Illustrators and photographers, imported by, for use solely as models—Temporary importation bond
10.31
In violation of laws
161.2
Of special design, for use in connection with manufacture of articles for export—Temporary importation bond
10.31
Registration of foreign
148.1
Special marking requirements—Exception
11.9, 11.13, 134.32-134.36, 134.43
Taken ashore by crew members
Part 148, subpart G
To be repaired, altered, or otherwise changed in condition—Temporary importation bond
10.31
ASSAYING AND SAMPLING OF METAL BEARING ORES AND OTHER METAL-BEARING MATERIALS
Part 151, subpart D
ASSEMBLY OF ARTICLES ABROAD WITH U.S. COMPONENTS
10.11-10.26
ASSENT OF SURETIES TO EXTENSION OF TIME OF BONDS
113.44
ASSERTED LIQUIDATION
159.11
ASSIGNED ENTRY NUMBERS
142.3a
ASSIST-DEFINED, TRADE AGREEMENTS ACT OF 1979
152.102(a)
ATOMIC ENERGY MATERIAL, CONTROLLED IMPORTS AND EXPORTS—Seizure
161.2
ATTORNEY, POWER OF—Surety
113.37, Part 141, subpart C
AUCTIONEER'S CHARGES FOR SELLING MERCHANDISE
127.34
AUDITS
163.0, 163.11
Sampling methods
163.11(c)
Penalties-offsetting (netting)
163.11(d)
AUTOMATED CLEARINGHOUSE (ACH)
24.1, 24.25
Credit
24.26
AUTOMATED COMMERCIAL ENVIRONMENT (ACE)
128.11, 128.23, Part 143, subpart D
Automated Broker Interface (ABI)
24.1, 24.25, Part 143, subpart A, 143.32
Automated Export System (AES)
4.76, Part 192, subpart B
Automated Manifest System (AMS)
103.31, 128.11, 128.23
AUTOMOBILES
Brought in by a person not a returning resident
148.45
Brought in for temporary use under international traffic
10.41
Export of
192.2
Rented abroad by returning resident and brought in for temporary use
148.39
AUTOMOBILES, MOTORCYCLES, AIRPLANES, ETC., TO TAKE PART IN RACES—Temporary importation bond
10.31
AUTOMOBILES—Safety standards
12.80
AUTOMOBILES, TRAILERS, AND AIRCRAFT STOLEN AND RETURNED FROM MEXICO
123.82
AUTOMOTIVE GOODS (USMCA)
182, subpart I
AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCTS TRADE ACT
10.84
AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION
Disclosure or production in federal, state, local, and foreign proceedings
Part 103, subpart B
Documents and records available for inspection and copying
103.11, 103.31
Documents and records exempt from disclosure
103.12
Fees
103.10
Investigatory files
103.12(g)
Personnel and medical files
103.12(f)
Privileged or confidential information—improper disclosure, penalty
103.34
Public reading rooms
Documents available for inspection and copying
103.11
List
103.1
Release of information to foreign agencies
103.33
Request for a record
Administrative appeal to Director, Office of Regulations
Rulings
103.7
Definition
103.5(h)
Improper disclosure of confidential information, penalty
103.34
Judicial review—U.S. district court
103.9
Procedure to follow
103.5
Referral to other agencies
103.5(b)
Time extensions
103.8
Requests for records, documents and testimony by U.S. Court
103.22, 103.26
Seizures and investigations pending
103.32
Vessel manifests, examination of
103.31
AVIATION SMUGGLING, Penalties
122.167
AWARDS OF COMPENSATION TO INFORMERS—Claims
Part 161, subpart B
B
BAD ORDER, BREAKAGE, OUTAGE, DAMAGE—Duty allowance
158.11, 158.12, 158.21-158.27
BAGGAGE
Accompanied in transit
122.48(e), 122.101, 122.102
Alcoholic beverages
By returning resident
148.33
By a nonresident
148.43
Antiques in
10.53
Appraisement
148.24
Army and Navy transports
148.73
Cigars and cigarettes
148.33, 148.43, 148.51, 148.74
Civilian (U.S.) employees
Part 148, subpart H
Commercial travelers' samples
Transported by automobile
Through Canada and returned
123.51
Through U.S. and returned to Canada
123.52
Exported and returned
10.68
Under bond
10.36
Consular officers
148.82
Contiguous country
123.1, 123.2, Part 123, subpart G
Crews' effects
Part 148, subpart G
Customs officer may unlock vehicle or compartment
123.63
Declaration
Amendment
148.16
Crew members
148.65, 148.66
False statement, etc., penalty
148.18, 148.19, 148.67
Failure to declare, etc., penalty
148.18, 148.19, 148.67
Form and contents
148.12, 148.13, 148.65, 148.66
Requirements
Part 148, subpart B
Detained if not opened by owner or agent, penalty
123.63(b)
Diplomatic, consular, and other official representatives
148.82, 148.87
Domestic, through contiguous foreign territory
123.51, 123.52, 123.64, 123.65
Duty exemption, restrictions, penalty
148.18, 148.19
Evacuees
Part 148, subpart H
Examination in foreign country
148.22
Examination procedure
Formal entry, when required
143.22, 148.15, 148.23
Inspector may pass
148.23
Invoice
148.23
Opening closed baggage
148.21
Preclearance of air travelers
148.4, 148.22
Preclearance stations
148.4(c)
Reappraisement
148.24, 148.25
Receipts for duty, forms
148.27
Reexamination and receipt form
148.25(a)
Exemptions allowed
Returning resident
Part 148, subpart D
Nonresident
Part 148, subpart E
Other special
Part 148, subpart F
Failure to declare, penalty
148.18, 148.19
Foreign military personnel and immediate families
148.90
Gifts
148.33(c), 148.44
In bond
For examination at port of destination
18.13
For exportation in transit through the U.S.
18.14, 123.64
In transit
Through foreign territory
123.65
Through U.S.
123.64
Inspection
162.6
Landed, undisposed of, when to be sent to general order
148.7
Liquors, entry forms, internal-revenue tax, strip stamps
148.26, 148.27
List, passengers
4.7, 4.7a
Merchandise
148.15, 148.23
Military (U.S.) personnel
Part 148, subpart H
Narcotics, marihuana and certain other drugs
Part 162, subpart F
Noncommercial importations of limited value
Part 148, subpart J
Nonresidents
Part 148, subparts E and F
Organization of American States, representatives
148.87, 148.88
Permit or special license for unlading or lading
4.30
Public international organizations, representatives
148.87
Regular entry
148.5
Release for unaccompanied shipment
148.6
Replacements for unsatisfactory articles acquired abroad
148.37
Residents, returning
Part 148, subpart D
Search of baggage and persons
162.6, 162.7
Seizure
162.21
Status of passengers, residents or other
148.2
Tea
148.23(d)
Tobacco and tobacco products
148.26, 148.33(d), 148.43, 148.74
Tools of trade under bond
10.36
Unaccompanied, arriving by aircraft
122.48(d)
Unaccompanied articles
Entry, declaration
148.6, 148.11
Unclaimed and unaccompanied
148.7
Undeclared, penalty
148.18
Value
148.24
BAGGAGE AND MERCHANDISE, REPORT OF REQUIRED TO BE MADE BY CERTAIN PASSENGER VESSELS
4.2
BAGGAGE ENTRIES, LIQUIDATION OF
159.10
BAGS OR DUNNAGE OF VESSEL
4.39
BAHAMAS, THE—Customs preclearance offices
101.5
BAHRAIN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (BFTA) (See, UNITED STATES-BAHRAIN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT)
BANKRUPT IMPORTERS
Duties due U.S.—Priority of claim
141.1
Refund of excessive duty
24.36
BARGES
4.81(g)
BEEF, FRESH—Chilled or frozen
10.180
BEES, HONEY—Importation procedure
12.32
BERMUDA—Customs preclearance office
101.5
BILLS AND ACCOUNTS
24.3
BILLS OF HEALTH (PRATIQUE), PRODUCTION OF, ON ENTRY OF VESSEL
4.9(d)
BILLS OF LADING
Bond, form
113.14, 113.69, 141.15(b)
Bond for production
141.15
Consolidated shipments
141.54
Disposition
141.16
Duplicate
Disposition, receipt
141.16(a)
Entry on
141.11(a)(1)
Extract from, to be certified by carrier
141.11(a)(2)
Unique bill of lading number
4.7a
BIRDS
Dying while under transportation entry
18.6
Game
Killed for noncommercial purposes
10.76
Live, for stocking purposes
10.76(a)
Wild
Importation procedure
10.76, 12.26-12.29
Scientific or educational purposes
10.75
Zoological collection
10.75
BLACK STRAP MOLASSES
10.139(b)
BLENDING OF WINES OR LIQUORS—Permit requirements
12.37
BOARDING AND SEARCHING OF VESSELS AND VEHICLES
4.1, 162.3-162.7
BOARDING OF VESSELS OR VEHICLES
Master's refusal to comply with lawful demand—Penalty
4.1
Obstruction of officer by master, penalty
4.1(b)(4)
Who may board
4.1
BOARDING OF VESSELS WITHOUT PERMISSION-Penalty
4.1
BOATS, PLEASURE, FOREIGN OWNED—When exempt from duties
4.94, 148.32, 148.45
BOATS—Safety standards
12.85
BOLTING CLOTH FOR MILLING PURPOSES
10.58
BOND CONDITIONS FOR DEFERRAL OF DUTY ON LARGE YACHTS IMPORTED FOR SALE AT UNITED STATES BOAT SHOWS
113.75
BOND CONDITIONS TO INDEMNIFY A COMPLAINANT UNDER SECTION 337 OF TARIFF ACT OF 1930, AS AMENDED
113.74
BONDING AND LICENSING CUSTOMS CARTMEN AND LIGHTERMEN
Part 112, subpart C
BOND LIABILITY
122.189
BONDS
Advance cargo information
113.64
Agricultural and vegetable seeds
12.16
Aircraft
113.62-113.64
Air waybill, evidence of right to make entry
141.15
Alcohol on vessels
4.13
Alterations
113.23
Amount, less than $100
113.13
Application for
113.12
Approved by port directors
113.11
Retention of
113.15
Approved forms, when inapplicable, procedure
113.14
Assent of sureties to extension of time
113.44
Attorneys in fact acting for both principal and surety
113.31
Authority to require
113.0-113.2
Bills of lading
Conditions
113.69
Evidence of right to make entry
141.15
Cancellation of
10.39, Part 113, subpart F
Cancellation or crediting—Vessel supplies
10.64
Carnets, serves as
113.4, 114.3
Carpet wool and camel's hair
113.68
Carrier's certificate and duplicate bill of lading—Bonds not to be taken
141.15
Carrier's (International)
113.64
Cartmen's or lightermen's, form
112.2, 113.63
Cartmen's or lightermen's liability
125.35, 125.41
Cash deposit in lieu of surety on bond
113.40
Centralized Examination Stations
118.4(g)
Certificate of pure breeding, form—Cancellation
10.71
Charges, cancellation of erroneous
113.54
Claim for seized property
162.47
Claimant of seized goods, form
113.72
Clearance of vessels, unmanifested narcotics
162.65(b), 162.65(e)
Commercial gauger and commercial laboratory conditions
113.67, 151.12, 151.13
Common and contract carrier
Application
18.1, 112.12
Discontinuance
18.1, 112.14
Form
112.12
Liabilities
18.8
Conditions
Part 113, subpart G
Custodial
113.63
Consignee's declaration
141.20
Consumption entry
113.62
Containerized cargo, form
113.66
Copyright, form
113.70
Corporation, as principals
113.33
Documents, time period for production
113.42
Documents, free entry, cancellation of bond (or charge against bond)
172.22(c)
Electronic entry filing
113.62(j)(1)
Entry, general term
113.62
Entry requirements
142.4
Exhibition, works of art
10.49
Export, cancellation of
113.55
Exportation, form
18.25, 113.62
Extension of time, application
113.42-113.44
Fiber products
113.68
Foods, drugs, devices, cosmetics, insecticides, pesticides, etc.
12.3, 141.113
Foreign merchandise destined foreign on board arriving vessels, form
4.88
Foreign trade zone operator conditions
113.73
Forms, approved, when inapplicable—Procedure
113.14
Forwarder, freight
18.1
Fur products
113.68
General instructions
Part 113, subpart C
General term bond for entry of merchandise
113.62
Government importations
10.104, 141.102(d), 143.3(a)
Importation and entry
113.62
Importer security filing bond
Appendix D - Part 113, 149.5
Importer security filing requirements
113.62, 113.63, 113.64, 113.73
Incorporating by reference, bond conditions to particular Customs activity
113.61
Information required on bond
113.21
Installment shipments, invoices covering
141.82
Instruments of international traffic
113.66
International carrier conditions
113.64
Invoices
Cancellation of, by 1 photocopy
141.84(e)
Photocopy to satisfy bond entry without required invoice
141.84(e), 141.91(d)
Production of
141.91(d)
Laboratory, commercial
113.67, 151.12
Landing certificate, alcoholic liquors
4.13
Landing from vessels in distress—Customs custody
4.32
Liability of surety on terminated
113.3
Liens in dispute
141.112(g)
Manifest
113.64
Manufacturing warehouse
19.3, 113.63
Meat and meat-food products, importation of
12.8
Missing documents
Bond required for
141.66
Charge for production
113.45
Entry made prior to production of documents, form
113.41
Failure to produce—Liquidated damages
113.45, 172.22
Narcotic drug penalty, for vessel clearance
162.65
Neutrality observance—Clearance of vessels, form
4.73, 113.71
Outward manifest
4.75, 122.74
Overtime
4.10, 24.16, 113.62-113.64
Aircraft, unlading or lading of
122.38
Vessels, boarding, entry or clearance of, lading, etc.
4.10, 4.30
Overtime service, vessels less than 5 net tons
123.8
Partnership, execution by
113.32
Plants and plant products
12.12
Power of attorney, surety
113.35, 113.37
Preparation and execution of
Part 113, subparts C and D
Principals and sureties
Part 113, subpart D
Proprietor's warehouse, form
19.2
Prosecution for failure to satisfy
113.52
Recall of merchandise
113.62, 141.113
Release of seized property
113.72, 162.47, 162.49
Removal from Customs custody
Examination of merchandise at importer's premises
151.7(d)
Failure to—Liquidated damages
10.39(d), 141.113, 151.11
Repayment of erroneous drawback payment
113.65
Requirements
Part 113, subpart C, 142.4
Retention of approved
113.15
Rewarehouse
144.41(d)
Riders
113.24
Salt for curing fish
10.80, 10.81, 10.83
Seals
113.25
Seized property
113.72, 162.47
Simultaneous vessel transactions
4.90
Summary forfeiture
162.47
Supplies for vessels
10.59, 10.60
Sureties
Assent for extension of period
113.44
Cash deposit accepted in lieu of, application of, or default
113.40
Corporation
113.37
Delinquent
113.38
Individual
113.35
Liability
113.3
Married women
113.35(b)(2)
Partners
113.36
Principals cannot act as
113.31
U.S. bonds and notes in lieu of
113.40
U.S. obligations accepted in lieu of
113.40
Tea importations
12.33
Temporary importations
10.31, 10.37, 10.39, 10.104, 113.62
Uncommon transaction
113.14
Unfair practices in import trade
12.39, 113.62
Vehicle, form
113.62-113.64
Vessel, form
113.62-113.64
Vessels owned by the U.S., to unlade or lade, not required
4.30(j)
Warehouse entry
Form
113.63, 144.13, 144.14
Liability under
144.2
Warehouse proprietor's
19.2, 113.63
Withdrawals from warehouse, conditionally free
113.63
Witnesses Required
113.22
Wool, carpet, and camel's hair, form
113.68
BOOKS (See also, PROHIBITED OR RESTRICTED IMPORTATIONS)
And other articles—Institutions, Conditionally free
145.36
Engravings, etc.—U.S. Conditionally Free
10.46, 145.37
In packages for Library of Congress, Conditionally free
10.46, 145.37
BOUNDARY LINE OF U.S., MERCHANDISE FOUND IN BUILDINGS ON OR NEAR
123.81
BOUNTIES—Countervailing duties
159.47
BRASSIERES, ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR PREFERENTIAL TREATMENT OF
10.228
BREEDING ANIMALS
10.70, 10.71
BRIX VALUES—Fruit juices
151.91
BUILDINGS, SEARCH OF
On international boundary line
123.81
Warrants—Restrictions
162.11-162.13,162.15
BULK CARGO—Correction of manifest
4.12
BULLETIN NOTICE OF LIQUIDATION
159.9, 159.10
BUNKER FUEL, STORES, AND EQUIPMENT—Transfer
4.39
BUSINESS INFORMATION, Confidentiality
103.31; 177.2; Part 181, subpart K
BUSSES
Brought in for temporary use under international traffic
10.41(a)
Domestic, repaired abroad
123.17
Foreign-owned—Brought in for hire
10.41(d)
Taken abroad for temporary use
123.16
C
CABOTAGE—Air, penalties
122.165
CANADA
Parts 123 and 181
Articles
Repaired or altered
181.64
Customs (U.S.) preclearance offices
101.5
In-transit truck shipments
123.51, 123.52
Softwood lumber entries
12.140
CANADA, U.S.-FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (CFTA)
10.84, Part 10, subpart G
CANADIAN ARTICLE—Automotive products
10.84
CANADIAN CRUDE PETROLEUM
10.179
CANCELLATION
Bonds
10.39, Part 113, subpart F
Carnets
114.26
Liability of cartage
125.42
Liquidated damages
125.42, 172.11, Part 172, subpart C
Penalty and forfeiture claims
133.51, 171.11
CARGO
Advance filing of cargo declaration
4.7
Bonded
Carried coastwise, report of vessel
4.2, 4.81
Seal requirements
18.4
Bulk
Discharge of, outside port of entry
4.35
For orders, amendment of manifest
4.36
Coastwise—Vessels touching at foreign port
4.82
Container certification
115.41
Container status messages
4.7d
Declaration
4.7a
Discharge, time limit and compensation of discharging officer
4.36, 24.17, 122.36
Entry of, from wrecked vessels
4.41
Foreign—Destined to foreign countries via U.S. port—Bond for foreign landing certificate
4.88
Inaccessible
4.34
Inward, accounting for
4.61, 4.62
Landing from vessels in distress
Customs custody
4.32
Narcotic drugs or marihuana contained in
Part 162, subpart F
Outbound, advance reporting requirements
192.14
Overage of manifested quantity
4.12, 122.49
Overcarried
4.34
Permit or special license for unlading or lading
4.30, 122.38
Prematurely discharged
4.34
Recovered from sunk or wrecked vessel or as derelict
4.41
Release, permits
4.38
Residue
4.85, 4.86, 4.88, 4.90, 122.81-122.84, 122.86-122.87
Short of manifested quantity
4.12
Stow plan
4.7c
Transit Air (See Aircraft)
Transshipment
Casualty
4.31(a)
Procedure
4.91
Undelivered, return from foreign destination of
4.34
Unentered, when to be sent to general order warehouse
4.37
Unique bill of lading number
4.7a
Unladen or transshipped on account of unavoidable cause
4.31
Vessel
In trade with noncontiguous territory
4.84
Proceeding foreign via domestic ports
4.87
Trading between U.S. ports on Great Lakes and other U.S. ports
4.83
Wrecked or dismantled, disposition of
4.40, 4.41
CARGO CONTAINER CERTIFICATION
Part 115
CARIBBEAN BASIN INITIATIVE
Part 10, subpart B
certain leather-related articles
10.198a
Non-textile articles
10.231-10.237
Puerto Rico
10.198b
Textile articles
10.221-10.227
CARNETS
Acceptance
114.21
For various samples
114.32
Additional items prohibited
114.24
Approval of issuing and guaranteeing associations
Part 114, subpart B
Bond
114.3
Customs Conventions and Agreements
114.2
Definitions
114.1
Destruction, loss, or theft of carnet document
114.25
Discharge of
114.26
Entry document
114.3
Fraud, violation, or abuse of privileges
114.33
Liquidated damages
114.33, 114.34
Merchandise covered by
114.22
Period of validity
114.23
Processing
Part 114, subpart C
Provisions, scope
Part 114
Restrictions—Mail importations, temporary importations and transportation in bond
114.31
Samples for taking orders
114.32
Use and area of validity
114.3
CARPET WOOL AND CAMEL'S HAIR—BOND
113.68
CARRIAGE OF U.S. SECURITIES, ETC.
4.61
CARRIERS
Approval of applications
112.13
Authorization to carry bonded material
Part 112, subpart B
Bond or license required
112.2
Certificate
Bond for, not to be taken
141.15
Disposition of
141.16
Entry on
141.11
Release of merchandise
141.111
Types of
112.11
CARTAGE
Appraisement entries—Additional expense payable by importer
Part 143, subpart B
Discrepancies
125.34
Expenses
127.32
Government—Contract requirements
125.1, 125.3, 125.11
Importers
Failure to designate cartmen
125.23
Procedure to designate cartmen
125.1(b), 125.22
Marking of vehicles, lighters, etc.
112.27
Marking, removal of
112.27(d)
Supervision of
125.2, 125.24
CARTAGE AND LIGHTERAGE
112.1, 112.2, Part 125
Examination
125.11, 125.12
Not for examination
125.21
CARTAGE CONTRACT BOND—Form
113.63
CARTAGE TICKETS—Form, disposition
125.31-125.34
CARTMEN
Accidents to be reported to port director
125.35
Bonding and licensing of
112.2, 112.21-112.26, 112.28, 112.30
Designation of, by importer on entry and permit
125.22
Designation of, on warehouse entry
144.11(b)
Government contracts
125.1, 125.3, 125.11
Identification cards for employees
Part 112, subpart D
Liability for loss or damage to merchandise
125.41
License or identification card, production of
112.28
Receipt for merchandise delivered to, form
125.31-125.33
Suspension or revocation of licenses of
112.30
Undeliverable merchandise
125.36
CASH DEPOSIT IN LIEU OF SURETY
Cash deposits or obligations on bonds
113.40
Temporary importation bonds
Amount
10.31(f)
Refund
10.40
CASUALTY, LOSS, AND THEFT OF MERCHANDISE
Part 158, subpart C
CASUALTY—Vessel—Unlading or transshipment at other than port of entry
4.31
CATALOGS OF SALES OF MERCHANDISE
127.26
CATTLE
Dying while under bond, duty allowance
18.6
Immediate transportation restrictions
18.11
Importation restrictions
12.24
Straying or driven across boundary
10.74
CAUSTIC SUBSTANCES—Importation procedure
12.1, 12.3-12.5
CENTERS OF EXCELLENCE AND EXPERTISE, OFFICES
101.10
CENTRALIZED EXAMINATION STATIONS (CES)
Part 118, 151.15
Appeal to the Asst. Commissioner
118.23
Application contents
118.11
Customs review of application
118.12
Fee schedule
118.5
Notice
118.13, 118.22
Responsibility
118.4
Suspension
118.21
Written agreement
118.3
CERTIFICATE
Alcohol, tobacco and firearms
191.104
Arrival
146.38
Delivery—Drawback
191.10, 191.24, 191.34
Export; beef
132.15
Lamb meat
132.16
Sugar-containing products
132.17
For liquor shipments on small vessels, penalty
4.13
Landing
191.76
Manufacture
191.24
Merchandise from
Insular possessions
7.3
NAFTA Countries
181.11
USMCA Countries
182
Of exportation—American goods returned, waiver of
10.1
Of lading for exportation (aircraft)
122.94
Of origin
AGOA(African Growth and Opportunity Act)
10.214
CBTPA(Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership Act)
10.224, 10.234
Softwood lumber from Canada
12.140
Foreign—Merchandise not produced by convict, forced, or indentured labor
12.43
Unaccompanied shipments from insular possessions
Part 148, subpart K
Of pedigree—Animals for pure breeding, bond
10.70, 10.71
Of registration
Automobiles, etc., taken abroad temporarily
148.32
Commercial traveler's samples taken abroad
10.68, 10.69
Exports for repairs or alterations—Form—Waiver of
10.8
Moving-picture films and Theatrical effects taken abroad
10.68
Of tonnage tax or light money payment-form
4.23
CERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN (USMCA)
182.12
CERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN NOT REQUIRED (USMCA)
182.14
CERTIFICATION
Blanket
10.183, 12.121
Chemical substances
12.121
Civil aircraft parts
10.183
Containers and road vehicles
Part 115
Drawback compliance program
191.192, 191.195
Substantial containers or holders
10.7
CHANGE OF PRACTICE
177.10(c)
CHARGES
Cartage, storage, and labor; additional, borne by importer on appraisement entry
143.14
Dutiable and nondutiable for articles exported to the U.S. prior to July 1, 1980, definitions
152.1
CHECKS
Acceptable in payment of duties
24.1
Mailed to other than payee, authority, form
24.36
CHEESE, affidavits for entry
12.6
CHEMICALS, TOXIC SUBSTANCES
12.118-12.127
CHILE FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (See, UNITED STATES-CHILE FREE TRADE AGREEMENT)
CIGARETTE PAPERS AND TUBES, PACKAGE AND NOTICE REQUIREMENTS
11.3
CIGARS, CIGARETTES, AND TOBACCO
Cuban origin
151.111
For consumption on vessel or aircraft
10.65
Importation
11.1
In passengers' baggage
148.33, 148.43, 148.51, 148.74
In mail
145.13
Manufactured tobacco, examination, marking
11.2
Release without payment of tax
11.2a
CITIZEN OF U.S.—Presumed to be a resident
148.2
CITIZENS DYING ABROAD, EFFECTS OF
143.21, 148.54
CIVIL AIRCRAFT
10.183
CIVIL ASSET FORFEITURE REFORM ACT
Part 162, subpart H
CIVIL MONETARY PENALTY ADJUSTMENTS FOR INFLATION
Part 27.3
CLAIMS
AGOA
10.215, 10.217
CBTPA
10.225, 10.227, 10.235, 10.237
Compensation to informants
Part 161, subpart B
Compromise of
161.5
Damage to or loss of privately-owned property caused by customs employees
24.71
Death benefits
24.32(b)
Deceased importers, payment due
24.70(a)
Deceased or incompetent public creditors or contractors, payment due
24.70(c)
In favor of U.S., payment by set-off
24.72
Miscellaneous
24.73
Personal injury
24.71
Seized property
162.47
Surplus proceeds of sale of unclaimed merchandise
127.36
Unpaid salary and other moneys due deceased employees
24.32(a)
CLASSIFICATION (See also, APPRAISEMENT and ADMINISTRATIVE RULINGS)
Applicable rates of duty
152.11, 152.12
Change in rate of duty by
Headquarters decisions
Current (ongoing) transactions
177.10
Petitions, Domestic interested party(ies), etc.
175.22
Prospective transactions
177.10
Protests
174.27, 174.29, 174.32
Judicial decisions
152.16
Law
152.17
Notice of port director to increase duties
152.2
Presidential proclamation
152.17
Commingling of merchandise
152.13
Merchandise from
Designated beneficiary developing countries (GSP)
10.171-10.178
Guantanamo Bay Naval Station
7.11
Insular possessions
7.3
Reimported merchandise
10.1, 10.11, 141.2
Rewarehouse entries
144.41
CLEAN AIR ACT
12.73, 12.74
CLEARANCE OF AIRCRAFT
Documents for
Part 122, subpart H
General requirements
Part 122, subpart G
Preclearance of passengers
24.18
Private aircraft passengers
122.22
Scheduled airlines
122.63
Serially numbered holders
10.41b
CLEARANCE OF VESSELS
At other than port of entry, expenses
24.17, 101.4
Canal Zone, to
4.60
Coastwise
Requirements
4.81, 4.83, 4.84
To or from Great Lakes ports
Via Hudson River
4.83
Via St. Lawrence River
4.83
Coastwise and foreign trade combined
4.89
Common carrier may be refused
162.22(c)
Crew list
4.61, 4.68
Documentation required
4.61
Foreign and coastwise trade combined
4.89
Foreign vessels proceeding coastwise, when permitted
4.80, 4.81
Livestock, carrying—Exportation of animals—Inspection
4.61, 4.71
Manifests, outward foreign, and bond for
4.63, 4.75
Maritime administration—Exemption from liabilities
162.22(e)
Meat Inspection certificate requirements
4.61, 4.72
Nationality and tonnage, verification of
4.61, 4.65
Neutrality observance—Bond
4.61, 4.73
Not required, when
4.60
Pratique
4.70
Proceeding foreign via domestic ports
4.87
Records
4.95
Requirements
4.60, 4.61
Seamen's Act
4.61, 4.69
Shipping articles
4.61, 4.69
Withheld until
Compliance with State inspection laws
4.61
Federal and State fees are paid
4.61
Narcotic drug penalty paid
162.65(e)
Reimbursable expenses paid
4.36
CLEARANCE OF VESSELS TO CLOSED PORTS OR PLACES
4.61, 4.67
CLEARANCE OR PERMISSION TO DEPART DENIED
122.66
CLERICAL ERROR (See also, ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW)
4.12(a)(5), 162.73, 173.4, 173.4a
CLOSED PORTS OR PLACES
4.61, 4.67
CLOTH
Boards
10.5
Bolting for milling purposes
10.58
COASTWISE MOVEMENTS
Entry and clearance of vessels
4.81-4.89
Foreign vessels, restrictions
4.80, 4.81
COASTWISE TRADE
Break in continuity
4.80b
Empty vans, tanks, and barges, etc.
4.93
Foreign vessels, restrictions
4.80, 4.80a
Intent
4.80
Limited to American vessels
4.80
New and different product
4.80b
Privileges reciprocal, nations granting
4.93(b)(1) and (b)(2)
Vessels entitled to engage in
4.80
Vessels touching at foreign port, while in
4.82, 4.90
COFFEE—Puerto Rico, shipped to, from U.S.
7.1(c)
COINS
Counterfeit—Prohibited importation
12.48
Illustrations of, when permitted entry
12.48
COLLECTIONS
Accounts due, receipt for payment of
24.3
Customs, persons authorized to receive
24.2
COLOMBIA TRADE PROMOTION AGREEMENT (CTPA)(See, FREE TRADE AGREEMENTS)
COMMERCIAL GAUGERS
151.13
COMMERCIAL LABORATORIES
151.12
COMMERCIAL INVOICE
141.83(c), 142.3(c)
Requirements
142.6
When not required
141.83(d)
COMMERCIAL TRAVELERS' SAMPLES
Accompanied through Canada and return
123.52
Accompanied through U.S. and return to Canada
123.51
Exported and returned
10.68, 10.69
Temporary importation bond
10.31, 10.36
COMMINGLING OF GOODS
Assessment at higher rate
152.13
When imported by U.S. Government and covering American goods returned and other duty-free items
10.103(b)
COMMISSION-DEFINED, TRADE AGREEMENTS ACT OF 1979
152.102(b)
COMMON CARRIER
Bonded
18.1
Bonds, discontinued use of
112.14
Clearance may be refused
162.22(c)
Receipt for merchandise transported in bond
18.2
Sealing of conveyances, etc.
18.4
Transshipment of merchandise
18.3
Warning cards to be attached to doors of car, etc.—Form
18.4
COMPENSATION (See also, WAGES)
Overtime
24.16
Reimbursable
4.35, 24.17, 101.4, 134.55, 141.86(f), 151.5, 151.7(c)
Reimbursable and not reimbursable
Full charge made if services are not clearly segregated
24.17
COMPROMISE OF CLAIMS
161.5
COMPUTED VALUE
152.106
CONCENTRATED FRUIT JUICES—Brix values
151.91
CONDEMNED MERCHANDISE—Allowance in duty
158.14
CONDITIONAL SALE, PROPERTY SOLD ON—Seized from purchaser—Petition for restoration
171.41-171.43
CONFIDENTIAL COMMERCIAL INFORMATION; EXEMPT
103.35
CONFIDENTIALITY OF BUSINESS INFORMATION
103.12(d), 103.31, 177.2, 181.121, 181.122
CONSIGNEE
Liability for additional or increased duties
141.20
Nonresident, entry of merchandise by
141.17
Notice of sale of unclaimed goods to be sent to
127.24
Refusal of merchandise by, to be treated as unclaimed
141.1(f)
CONSOLIDATED SHIPMENTS, ENTRY OF
141.52, 141.54
CONSOLIDATION OF SHIPMENTS, IMMEDIATE TRANSPORTATION ENTRY, ON
18.11
CONSULAR OFFICERS
Baggage
148.82, 148.83
Free entry privilege
148.82, 148.85
CONTAINER—Cargo, certification
Part 115
CONTAINER STATIONS
Application for transfer of merchandise
19.42
Carrier responsibility
19.44
Employee lists
19.46
Entry of containerized merchandise
19.49
Establishment, relocation or alteration of containerized stations
19.40
Filing of application
19.43
Movement of containerized cargo to a container station
19.41
Security
19.47
Suspension or revocation of the privilege of operating a container station; hearings
19.48
Transfer of merchandise, approval and method
19.45
CONTAINERS
Clearance of serially numbered
10.41b
For compressed gases, and other merchandise
Temporary importation bond
10.31
Instruments of international traffic
10.41(a)
Substantial
10.3, 10.7
CONTAINERS OR COVERINGS
American manufacture, returned as
10.3
In manufacturing warehouse, disposition of
19.15
CONTIGUOUS COUNTRY
Importations from
123.1, 123.3, 123.7, 123.51, 123.52, 148.35(a)
In transit through, between U.S. ports
18.14, Part 123, subpart C, 123.51, 123.65
In transit through U.S.
123.31, 123.32, 123.34, 123.42, 123.52, 123.64
Report of arrival from
123.1, 123.2, 123.5, 123.6
Vehicles and vessels arriving from
123.1-123.5
CONTINUED DUMPING AND SUBSIDY OFFSET
Certifications
159.63
Distribution of offset
159.64
General
159.61
Notice of distribution
159.62
CONTRACTORS—Deceased or incompetent, claims for payment due
24.70
CONTRACTS—Cartage and lighterage
125.11
CONTRARY TO LAW—Importing merchandise
12.97, 145.4, 162.22
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
162.45, 162.45a
CONTROLLED EXPORTS—Imports, seizure
161.2
CONVERSION OF CURRENCY
Date of exportation, definition
152.1(c), 159.32
Rates of exchange
Part 159, subpart C
CONVEYANCES—Seizure of, when used in or employed to aid in unlawful importation of merchandise
162.22
CONVICT, FORCED, OR INDENTURED LABOR—Merchandise produced by, importation prohibited
12.42-12.45
COPIES OF RECORDS—When importers may make
103.4
COPPER-BEARING FLUXING MATERIAL—Entry requirements
10.98
COPPER-METAL-BEARING MATERIALS, SMELTING AND REFINING—Allowance for loss
19.18, 151.55
COPYRIGHT—Mail importations marked
145.37
COPYRIGHTED ARTICLES
Part 133, subparts D and E
ENFORCEMENT OF COPYRIGHTS AND THE DIGITAL MILLENNIUM COPYRIGHT ACT; CBP BONDS
113
ENFORCEMENT OF COPYRIGHTS AND THE DIGITAL MILLENNIUM COPYRIGHT ACT; PERSONAL DECLARATIONS AND EXEMPTIONS
148
ENFORCEMENT OF COPYRIGHTS AND THE DIGITAL MILLENNIUM COPYRIGHT ACT; EXAMINATION, SAMPLING, AND TESTING OF MERCHANDISE
151
ENFORCEMENT OF COPYRIGHTS AND THE DIGITAL MILLENNIUM COPYRIGHT ACT; TRADEMARKS, TRADE NAMES, AND COPYRIGHTS
133
CORN OR MAIZE SEED—REDUCED RATE
10.57
CORPORATIONS
Bonds, execution by
113.33
Sureties on bonds
113.37
CORROSIVE SUBSTANCES—Importation procedure
12.1, 12.3-12.5
COST OF PRODUCTION
Definition and when to be shown on invoice
141.88
Valuation of articles assembled abroad
10.18
COTTON
Commercial travelers' samples of
10.68
Examination and measurement
Part 151, subpart F
COUNTERFEIT COINS, OBLIGATIONS, AND SECURITIES—Importation prohibited
12.48
COUNTERVAILING DUTIES—Port director, action by
159.58
COUNTRY OF ORIGIN
CBI
10.195, 10.198
Definitions
134.1
Evidence of for GSP purposes
10.173
GSP
10.173, 10.176
Marking requirements
Part 134, subparts B and E
Exceptions to
Part 134, subpart D
COUNTRY OF ORIGIN DETERMINATIONS—Government procurement
Part 177, subpart B
COUNTRY OF ORIGIN (NAFTA)
Part 102
COURTESY NOTICE—Liquidation
159.9, 159.11, 159.12
COURT OF INTERNATIONAL TRADE (CIT)
4.20(h), 19.3(g), 111.17(c), 111.75, 112.30(f), 152.16, 159.57, 174.31, 175.31, 176, 177.2, 177.7(b), 177.11(b)(8), 177.30, 177.31, 181.33, 181.93, 181.98, 181.102, 181.115, 181.116
COURT SUBPOENA FOR CUSTOMS DOCUMENTS
176.11
CREAM AND MILK—Importation, special requirements
12.7
CREW OF VESSELS
Crew list
Deposit of, on entry of American vessel
4.68
Presentation of, form
4.61, 4.68
Declarations and exemptions
Part 148, subpart G
Declaration of articles unladen by, when required
148.62
CREWS, ARTICLES ACQUIRED BY, LISTED AS SEA STORES—Form
4.7
CREW'S EFFECTS
148.63
CUBAN CIGARS OR CIGARILLOS
151.111
CULTURAL PROPERTY
12.104-12.104j
CURRENCY CONVERSION
152.25, Part 159, subpart C
Date of exportation, Definition
152.1(c), 159.32
Rates of exchange
Part 159, subpart C
CUSTOMS BROKERS
Charges against
Statement of
111.58
Notice of
111.62
Hearing
111.67
Extension of time for
111.65
Failure to appear
111.66
Service of notice and other papers for
111.64
Mistakes, immaterial
111.71
New proceedings
111.72
Preliminary proceedings
111.59
Decision on
111.61
Proposed findings and conclusions
111.68
Recommended decision
111.69
Reopening the case
111.76
Representation
111.5
Request for additional information
111.60
Service of notice and statement of charges
111.63
Settlement and compromise
111.81
Submissions, additional
111.70
Vacated or modified order, notice of
111.77
Complaints, investigation of
111.55
Review
111.56
Determination
111.57
Customs Business
111.3
Definitions
111.1
Diligence in correspondence and payment monies
111.29
Duties and responsibilities
Part 111, subpart C
Fees
111.96
License or Permit
Appeal from the Secretary's decision revoking or suspending
111.75
Application for—
111.11-111.15
Application for—Investigation and examination
111.11-111.15
Cancellation of
111.51
Employment of broker who has lost
111.79
For more than one Customs port
111.19
Issuance or denial of
111.13, 111.15-111.19
Reprimands
111.78
Required
111.2
Revocation, cancellation or suspension of
111.50-111.53, 111.81
Grounds for
111.53
When voluntary
111.52
Monetary penalty
111.74, 111.91-111.95
Permit (See, License or permit)
Records
111.21-111.27
Representation before Government agencies
111.5
CUSTOMS COLLECTIONS—Persons authorized to receive
24.2
CUSTOMS COURT (See also, COURT OF INTERNATIONAL TRADE (CIT))
Documents and other evidence, produced for
103.22, 176.11
Reliquidation under decision of
176.31
CUSTOMS CUSTODY
Continuous, merchandise exported from
18.25-18.26
Demand to return to
141.113
CUSTOMS EMPLOYEES
Death—Claim for unpaid salary and other moneys due
24.32
Identification cards
101.8
Information, giving out
103.0, 103.12
Prohibitions against
4.101
CUSTOMS FEES (See, FEES)
CUSTOMS FORMS (CF)
Reproduction or substitution
4.99, 122.5
Salable
24.14
CUSTOMS INSPECTION STAMPS—Cigars, etc., imported in mails
11.2(b), 145.13
CUSTOMS—List of
Offices in foreign countries
101.5
Ports
101.3
Stations
101.4
CUSTOMS OFFICERS
Authority of
101.2
Baggage, not to open
123.63
Boarding or search by
162.3-162.8, 162.13
Compensation for service
Required in the discharge of cargo after time limit
4.36, 24.17
When assigned on board a vessel or vehicle
Proceeding between ports
24.17
To protect the revenue
4.36, 24.17
Identification cards
101.8
Marking, supervision of, by—Compensation
134.55
Prohibitions against
4.101
Search and seizure by
162.3-162.13, 162.21, 162.22
Supervision by
101.2(c)
CUSTOMS OFFICES (U.S.)—In foreign countries
101.5
CUSTOMS REVENUE FUNCTION REGULATIONS
0.1
All other Customs regulations issued under the Authority of DHS
0.2
CUSTOMS SEAL—Impression
101.7
CUSTOM SEALS
Penalty for breaking
18.4
Procuring and accounting
24.13
Removal, by carrier
18.3(d)
When required
18.4
CUSTOMS SECURITY AREAS—Access
Part 122 subpart S
CUSTOMS STATIONS and PORTS OF ENTRY
101.3, 101.4
CUSTOMS SUPERVISION
19.4, 19.34, 19.38, 101.2(c), 146.3
Trade fairs
Part 147, subpart D
D
DAMAGED MERCHANDISE—Duty allowance
Part 158, subparts B and C
DANGEROUS AND HIGHLY INFLAMMABLE MERCHANDISE, RESTRICTIONS ON—Warehousing
144.1(a)
DATE OF ENTRY—Definition
141.68
DATE OF IMPORTATION—Definition
101.1
DEATHS OF CUSTOMS EMPLOYEES—Claim for unpaid salary and other monies due
24.32
DEBTS DUE U.S.—Duties, collection
141.1, 141.3
DECISIONS AFFECTING RATE OF DUTY
152.16, 152.17, 174.27, 174.29, 175.22, 177.10
DECLARATION OF USE—Vessel supplies
10.64
DECLARATIONS
Agent's, on entry
141.19(b)
American goods returned
10.103, 145.35
Articles
Assembled abroad
10.24
Exported for processing
10.9
For repairs
10.8
ATPA
10.207
Baggage
Articles not declared or false statement, penalty
148.18, 148.19, 148.67
Bond for production of consignee's
141.19
Books, periodicals, etc.
141.19(c)
CBI
10.198
Consignee to make, on entry
141.19
Crew
148.62, 148.66
Department of Defense transports, baggage
148.73
Domestic products
10.1
GSP
10.173
Household effects used abroad, form, bond
148.52
Imported articles exported
10.8a
Mail shipments
145.11
Match importations
12.34
Motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment
12.80
Oral
148.12
Owner's declaration, production of by nominal consignee
141.20
Requirements
148.11-148.17, 148.65, 148.66
Tools of trade, form
148.53
DEDUCTIVE VALUE
152.105
DEEMED LIQUIDATEDS
159.11
DEFENSE PRODUCTION ACT OF 1950—Transportation orders
4.74
DEFICIENCIES IN CONTENTS OF PACKAGES
158.5
DEFICIT IN DUTY AFTER APPLYING PROCEEDS OF SALE
127.37
DEFINITIONS
ABI
143.32(b)
Absolute (or quantitative) quotas
132.1
Abstract
191.2(a)
Abstract (drawback)
191.2(i)
Accessories, spare parts or tools that are delivered with a good and form part of the good's standard accessories, spare parts or tools
181 App
ACE, Automated Commercial Environment
143.32(a)
Act
12.90, 12.110, 146.1(b)(1), 147.1, 191.2(b)
Activation
146.1(b)(2)
Activities
163.1
Actual loss of duties
162.71(a)(1)
Actual loss of revenue
162.71(b)(1)
Adjusted to an F.O.B basis
181 App
Administrative workweek
24.16(b)(2)
Administrator
12.110
Admit
146.1(b)(3)
Advanced in value
102.1(a)
Advance ruling
181.92(a)(1)
Adverse marking decision
181.112(a)
Advisory ruling (government procurement)
177.22(b)
Agent
122.1, 141.19(b)(1)
Agreement (NAFTA)
143.32(c)
Aircraft
122.1
Civil
10.183(a)
Foreign
122.165(a)
Commercial
122.1
Private
122.1(h), 122.23(a)
Aircraft commander
122.1
Alteration
146.1(b)(4)
American fishery
10.78(b)
American-made
10.12(a)
American vessel
4.9
Analysis record (Laboratories)
151.12
Apparel article
10.26
AGOA
10.212
CBTPA
10.222
Applicable change in tariff classification
181 App.
Archaeological or ethnological material of the State Party to the 1970 UNESCO Convention
12.104(a)
Arrival (fees for services)
24.22(a)(2)
Arrival of a vessel
4.0
Article
12.120(a)
Chemical substances
12.120(a)(1)(iii)
Exported
191.172(c)
Qualified
191.172(a)
Same kind and quality
191.172(b)
Articles
Apparel
10.26(c)(1)
For a fair
147.1
Textile
10.26(c)(1)
Textile or apparel
10.26(c)(1)
Assembly
10.12(b)
Assembled articles
10.12
In one or more countries
AGOA (African Growth and Opportunity Act)
10.212
CBTPA (Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership Act)
10.222
Assembly operations abroad
10.16(a)
Operations incidental to assembly
10.16(b)
Operations not incidental to assembly
10.16(c)
Assist (valuation of merchandise)
152.102(a)
Assistant Commissioner (Laboratories)
151.12
Assistant Commissioner (Office of Field Operations)
111.1
Associated equipment (safety standards)
12.85
A.T.A. carnet (admission Temporaire—Temporary Admission)
114.1(d)
Attribution (petroleum/FTZ)
146.92(a)
Audit (recordkeeping)
163.1
Authorized agent
177.1(d)(4), 181.92(a)(2)
Automotive component (NAFTA)
181 App.
Automotive component (assembly)
181 App.
Baggage and effects (personal or household use)
148.81(b), 148.84(b)
Barges, Lash-Types
4.81(g), 4.81a
Barrels
151.41
Base pay (overtime services)
24.16
Beneficiary country
AGOA (African Growth and Opportunity Act)
10.212
ATPA (Andean Trade Preference Act)
10.26(c)(2), 10.202
CBI
10.191(b)(1), 10.195(b)
Developing
10.178a
Blackstrap molasses
10.139
Boats (safety standards)
12.85(a)
Bona fide gift
10.153
Broker
111.1, 143.32(d)
Business day
101.1
Calendar year (fees for services)
24.22(a)(3)
Callback (overtime services)
24.16
Canada (NAFTA)
181.1(a)
Canadian article
10.84
Cargo
128.1(b)
Cargo (harbor maintenance fee)
24.24
Carrier
112.1
Common
18.1(a)(1), 112.1
Contract
112.1
Private
112.1
Cartman
112.1
Casualty
4.14(h)(2)(i)
CBERA (Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act)
10.222, 10.232
CBTPA (Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership Act)beneficiary country
10.222, 10.232
Originating good
10.232
Centralized examination station (CES)
118.1
Certificate of delivery
191.2(c)
Certificate of manufacture and delivery
191.2(d)
Certification
143.32(e)
Certified (export control)
192.1
Certified recordkeeper
163.1
Certifying Authority
115.3(a)
Change in classification (CFTA)
10.303(c)
Charges (liens)
141.112
Check samples (Laboratories)
151.12
Chemical substance in bulk form
12.120(b)
Citizen
4.0
Civil aircraft
10.183
Claimant (liens)
141.112
Clean kg
151.61(a)
Clean pound (wool and hair)
151.61
Clean yield (wool and hair)
151.61(b)
Clerical error or other mistake
122.162, 123.9(g)
Manifest discrepancy
4.12(a)(5)(a)
Special procedures
162.71(e)
Closely integrated administrative control
128.1(f)
Closing date (trade fairs)
147.1
Coastwise port
4.80a
Commercial
Aircraft
122.1
Cargo (harbor maintenance fee)
24.24
Gaugers
151.13
Importation (NAFTA)
181.1(b)
Laboratories
151.12
Vessel (harbor maintenance fee)
24.24
Commercially interchangeable merchandise
191.2(e)
Commingled (rules of origin)
102.1(b)
Commission
152.102(b)
Commissioner
Carnets
114.1
Certification
115.3(b)
Commodity Group Brochure (Laboratories)
151.12
Common carrier
18.1, 112.1
Control, ownership; trademarks
133.2
Commute compensation (overtime)
24.16
Complete copy (export control)
192.1
Compliance assessment (recordkeeping)
163.1(e)
Conditionally admissible merchandise
146.1
Conspicuous (marking)
134.1(k)
Constructive transfer (foreign trade zones)
146.1(b)
Container (certification)
115.3(c)
Continuous assignment (overtime services)
24.16(b)(6)
Contract carrier
112.1
Convention (cultural property)
12.104(b)
Vessel
4.96
Copy (export control)
192.1
Costs incurred in packing (NAFTA)
181 App.
Country
GSP
10.171(b)
Marking
134.1
Political entity
134.1(a)
Possessions
152.23
Country of origin
Government procurement
177.22(a)
Marking purposes
134.1(b)
Pre-Columbian monumental or architectural sculpture or mural
12.105(c)
Textile and apparel products
102.21(b)(1)
Courier shipment
128.1(c)
Crib
19.37(a)
Crude petroleum
10.179
Cultural property
12.104(c)
Current (ongoing) transactions
177.1(d)(3)
Customs
Accredited Laboratories
151.12
Administration (NAFTA)
181.1
And related laws
177.1(d)(5)
And TIR/Container Plan
115.3(g)
Approved gaugers
151.13
Broker
111.1
Business
111.1
Documents
103.21(c)
Duty (NAFTA)
181.1(d)
Employee
103.21(b)
Officer (overtime services)
24.16
Security area
122.181
Station
101.1
Supervision
101.2(c)
Territory (foreign trade zones)
146.1(b)
Territory of the U.S.
101.1, 134.1(f), 145 (Appendix)
Value (NAFTA)
181 App.
Cut in one or more
AGOA (African Growth and Opportunity Act)
10.212
CBTPA (Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership Act)
10.222
Dangerous caustic or corrosive substances
12.1
Data
143.32(f)
Data, technical (recordkeeping)
163.1
Date
Closing
147.1(e)
Entry
101.1, 141.68
Exportation
101.1, 152.1
Importation
101.1(h)
Landing
158.14
Liquidation
159.9, 159.10, 174.12
Days (NAFTA)
181 App.
Deactivation (foreign trade zones)
146.1(b)(7)
Default
146.1(b)(8)
Degree/sugar degree
151.21(a)
Departure of a vessel
4.0(g)
Designated archaeological or ethnological material
12.104(d)
Designated merchandise (drawback)
191.2(f)
Destruction
191.2(g)
Determination of origin
181.1(e)
Development assistance (harbor maintenance fee)
24.24
Direct cost of processing operations (GSP)
10.178(a)
Direct cost of processing or assembly (CFTA)
10.305
Direct costs of processing (ATP)
10.206
Direct costs of processing (CBI)
10.197
Direct identification drawback
191.2(h)
Direct labor costs (NAFTA)
181 App.
Direct material costs (NAFTA)
181 App.
Direct overhead (NAFTA)
181 App.
Direct physical identification
102.1(c)
Direct shipment (insular possessions)
7.3(e)
Direct shipment (CFTA)
10.306
Distant foreign port
4.80(a)
District
111.1, 112.1
Documentation
143.32
Documented (Vessel)
4.0(c)
Domestic interested party(ies)
175.3
Domestic (international traffic)
123.12
Domestic (locomotives and equipment)
123.12
Domestic material (rules of origin)
102.1
Domestic merchandise (foreign trade zones)
146.1(b)
Domestic value (seized property)
162.43
Drawback (drawback)
191.2(i)
Drawback claim (drawback)
191.2(j)
Drawback entry (drawback)
191.2(k)
Drawback product (drawback)
191.2(r)
Duties
101.1(i)
EDIFACT
143.32(h)
Electronic entry
143.32(j)
Electronic entry summary
143.32(k)
Electronic immediate delivery
143.32(i)
Eligible (ATP)
10.202
Eligible articles (CBI)
10.191
Embark
4.80a(a)(4)
Employee
111.1
Entered (ATP)
10.202(c)
Entered (CBI)
10.191(b)(4)
Entered for consumption
141.0a(f)
Entered for warehouse
141.0a(g)
Enterprise (NAFTA)
181 App.
Entry for temporary inspection bond
141.0a(h)
Entry
141.0a(a)
Entry or withdrawal for consumption
101.1
Entry records/(a)(1)(A) list (recordkeeping)
163.1(f)
Entry summary
141.0a(b)
Estimated duties
10.39
Excluded costs (NAFTA)
181 App.
Executive Director (Labs)
151.12(a)
Exemption (assembled articles)
10.12
Export
192.1
Exportation
101.1
Exportation, country of
152.23
Exportation (drawback)
191.2(m)(1)
Exported article (petroleum derivatives)
191.172(c)
Exporter (drawback)
191.2(m)(2)
Exporter (NAFTA)
181.1(f), 181.112(b)
Express consignment operator or carrier
128.1(a)
Fabric
10.25
Fabric (CBI)
10.195
Fabric-making process
102.21
Fabricated component (assembled abroad with U.S. components)
10.12(d)
Fabricated component (assembled abroad with U.S. components)
10.14
Fabricated component (assembled abroad with U.S. components)
10.15
Fair (trade fairs)
147.1
Fair operator (trade fairs)
147.1
Fair retail value (classification and appraisement)
152.1(d)
Feedstock factor (petroleum/FTZ)
146.92(c)
Feedstocks (petroleum/FTZ)
146.92(b)
Ferry (fees for services)
24.22(a)(4)
Ferry (harbor maintenance fee)
24.24(b)(4)
Filer
143.32
Filing
141.0a(d)
Filing (drawback)
191.2
Final determination (gov't procurement)
177.22
Final product (petroleum/FTZ)
146.92
Findings and trimmings
AGOA (African Growth and Opportunity Act)
10.213
CBTPA (Caribbean basin Trade Partnership Act)
10.223
Fiscal year pay cap (overtime services)
24.16(b)(8)
Fishing
4.96
Foreign
AGOA (African Growth and Opportunity Act)
10.212
CBTPA (Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership Act)
10.222
Foreign (international traffic)
123.12
Foreign (locomotives and other equipment)
123.12
Foreign account and ownership
191.133
Foreign area
122.141
Foreign civil aircraft
122.165
Foreign material (rules of origin)
102.1
Foreign materials (insular possessions)
7.3
Foreign merchandise (foreign trade zones)
146.1(b)
Foreign origin (marking)
134.1(c)
Foreign port or place
4.2
Formal entry (vessels)
4.9
Formed uppers
102.20
Fraud
181.82
Freight (liens)
141.112
Freight forwarder
111.1, 112.1
Fungible goods (NAFTA)
181 App.
Fungible goods/materials (rules of origin)
102.1
Fungible materials (NAFTA)
181 App.
Fungible merchandise (foreign trade zones)
146.1(b)
Fungible merchandise/articles (drawback)
191.2(o)
Fur product
11.12a
Further review (protests)
174.1
Gaugers, Customs-approved (testing of merchandise)
151.13(a)
General average (liens)
141.112
General manufacturing drawback
191.2
General sample (wool and hair)
151.61(e)
Generally accepted accounting principles
152.102(c), 181.1
Good of a NAFTA country (country of origin marking)
134.1(g)
Good wholly obtained/produced (rules of origin)
102.1(g)
Government cartage
125.1(a)
Guaranteeing association (carnets)
114.1(c)
Harmonized System (NAFTA)
181 App.
Harmonized System (rules of origin)
102.1
Headquarters office
177.1
Headquarters office (NAFTA)
181.92
Heavy-duty vehicle (NAFTA)
181 App.
Holiday (hours of business)
101.6
Holiday (overtime services)
24.16(b)
Household effects
148.52
HTSUS (Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States)
AGOA (African Growth and Opportunity Act)
10.212
CBTPA (Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership Act)
10.222 and 10.232
NAFTA (North American Free Trade Agreement)
181.1
Hub
128.1
Humanitarian assistance (harbor maintenance fee)
24.24(b)(5)
Identical goods (NAFTA)
181 App.
Identical materials (NAFTA)
181 App.
Identical merchandise (valuation)
152.102(d)
Imported directly
10.175
AGOA (African Growth and Opportunity Act)
10.213
CBTPA (Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership Act)
10.223 and 10.233
Imported directly
ATP
10.204
CBI
10.193
GSP
10.175(e)(2)
Importer
101.1
Importer (NAFTA)
181.1
Importer's cartage
125.1(b)
Importer security filing importer
149.1
Importer filing importation
149.1
Importer security filing bulk cargo
149.1
Importer security filing break bulk cargo
149.1
Improved in condition (rules of origin)
102.1
Incorporated (NAFTA)
181 App.
Incorporated (rules of origin)
102.1
Indirect material (NAFTA)
181 App.
Indirect materials (rules of origin)
102.1
Information letter
177.1(d)(2)
Information letter (NAFTA)
181.92
Inquiry (recordkeeping)
163.1
Insignificant preliminary preparation
12.95(b)
Instruments of int'l traffic
10.41a
Interest costs (NAFTA)
181 App.
Interlinings
AGOA (African Growth and Opportunity Act)
10.213
CBTPA (Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership Act)
10.223
Intermediate material (NAFTA)
181.1, 181 App.
Intermittent employee (overtime services)
24.16(b)(10)
Issuing association (carnets)
114.1
International airport
122.1
Knit to shape
102.21
AGOA (African Growth and Opportunity Act)
10.212
CBTPA(Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership Act)
10.222
Laboratory, Customs-accredited
151.12
Landing rights airport
122.1
LASH-type barges
4.81(g)
Letter class mail
145.1(b)
Light-duty automotive good (NAFTA)
181 App.
Light-duty vehicle (NAFTA)
181 App.
Lighterman
112.1
Limits of any Customs port
4.6(b), 101.3
Liquidation
159.1
Listed material (NAFTA)
181 App.
Location of the producer (NAFTA)
181 App.
Locomotives or other railroad equipment, domestic and foreign
123.12(d)
Loss of duties (special procedures)
162.71
Loss of revenue (special procedures)
162.71
Made in one or more CBTPA
10.222
Mail article
145.1
Major conversion
191.133
Majority of hours (overtime services)
24.16
Major parts
102.21
AGOA (African Growth and Opportunity Act)
10.212
CBTPA (Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership Act)
10.222
Manufacturing period (petroleum/FTZs)
146.92(e)
Manufacture or production (drawback)
191.2
Manufacturer (certification)
115.3
Marking rules (NAFTA)
134.1, 181.1
Material (NAFTA)
181 App.
Material (rules of origin)
102.1
Materials (CFTA)
10.303
Materials produced in a (CBI)
10.196
Materials produced in the U.S. (ATPA)
10.206(c)
Measure (NAFTA)
181.1
Meat and meat food products
12.8
Merchandise (foreign trade zones)
146.1
Merchandise of the same class
152.102
Mexico (NAFTA)
181.1
Minor processing (rules of origin)
102.1
Mistake of fact (special procedures)
162.71
Month (NAFTA)
181 App.
Motor vehicle assembler (NAFTA)
181 App.
Multiple products (drawback)
191.2
Museum (cultural property)
12.104
NAFTA (North American Free Trade Agreement)
181.1
AGOA (African Growth and Opportunity Act)
10.212
CBTPA (Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership Act)
10.222, 10.232
Country (NAFTA)
181.App.
Drawback
181.1
Marking and marking rules
134.1
Transaction (NAFTA)
181.92
National (NAFTA)
181 App.
National Commodity Specialist Division
181.92(a)(6)
Nearby foreign port
4.80a
Net cost method (NAFTA)
181 App.
Net cost of a good (NAFTA)
181.1
New or different article (GSP)
10.176
Night work (overtime services)
24.16
Noncommerical importation (special procedures)
162.71(d)
Noncontiguous territory of the U.S.
4.0(d)
Nonconvention
Cargo vessel
4.96(a)(3)
Fishing vessel
4.96(a)(2)
Nonresidents
141.31, 148.2
Non-allowable interest costs (NAFTA)
181 App.
Non-originating good (NAFTA)
181 App.
Non-originating material (NAFTA)
181 App.
Non-profit (harbor maintenance fee)
24.24
Officer
111.1
Operations incidental to assembly
10.16
Operator (foreign trade zones)
146.1
Origin of goods (insular possessions)
7.3
Original (recordkeeping)
163.1
Original equipment (NAFTA)
181 App.
Original motor-vehicle equipment
10.84
Originating
AGOA (African Growth and Opportunity Act)
10.212
CFTA (U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agreement)
10.302
NAFTA (North American Free Trade Agreement)
181.1
Originating component (availability of information)
103.21(d)
Originating good (NAFTA)
181 App.
Originating material (NAFTA)
181 App.
Other costs (NAFTA)
181 App.
Overtime pay (overtime services)
24.16
Package
145.1(a)
Packaging materials (NAFTA)
181 App.
Packing costs
152.102(e)
Packing materials (NAFTA)
181 App.
Party-at-interest (government procurement)
177.22(d)
Party/person (recordkeeping)
163.1
Passenger
4.50, 4.80a
Payable
152.103
Payments (NAFTA)
181 App.
Period costs (NAFTA)
181 App.
Permit
111.1
Permitted merchandise
158.1
Person
111.1
Person (NAFTA)
181 App., 181.1
Person of a NAFTA country (NAFTA)
181 App.
Personal effects
148.74
Petroleum refinery (petroleum/FTZ)
146.92
Piratical copies (trademarks)
133.42(a)
Place
122.23
Point of direct shipment (NAFTA)
181 App.
Port director (foreign trade zones)
146.1
Port (harbor maintenance fee)
24.24
Port of arrival
122.112
Port/port of entry
101.1
Port (trade fairs)
147.1
Possession (drawback)
191.2
Possessions of the U.S. (harbor maintenance fee)
24.24
Potential loss of duties
162.71
Potential loss of revenue
162.71
Preclassification/binding ruling number
143.32(m)
Preclearance
122.1
Pre-Columbian monumental and architectural sculpture and murals
12.105
Preferential tariff treatment
CBTPA (Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership Act)
10.232
NAFTA (North American Free Trade Agreement)
181.1
USMCA (United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement)
182
Preferential treatment
CBTPA (Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership Act)
10.222
AGOA (African Growth and Opportunity Act)
10.212
Premium pay differential (overtime services)
24.16
Presentation
141.0a(e)
Presentation (quotas)
132.1
Price of product (petroleum/FTZ)
146.92
Price paid or payable
152.102(f)
Principal field officer
101.1
Private aircraft
122.1, 122.23
Private carrier
112.1
Produced in beneficiary developing country (GSP)
10.177(a)
Producer (NAFTA)
181.1, 181.112, 181 App.
Producibility (petroleum/FTZ)
146.92
Product costs (NAFTA)
181 App.
Production (NAFTA)
181.1, 181 App.
Production (rules of origin)
102.1
Product of the U.S. (assembly)
10.12(e)
Product (safety standards)
12.85
Prohibited merchandise (foreign trade zones)
146.1(b)
Prospective Customs transaction
177.1(d)(3)
Prototype (certification)
115.3
Public aircraft
122.1
Qualified article (petroleum derivatives)
191.172(a)
Quotas
132.1
Reactivation (foreign trade zones)
146.1
Recordkeeper, certified (recordkeeping)
163.1(d)
Recordkeeper, third-party (recordkeeping)
163.1(l)
Records
111.1
Records (drawback)
191.2
Records (recordkeeping)
163.1(a)(1)
Records (special entry procedures)
143.32
Region
111.1
Regularly-scheduled administrative workweek
24.16(b)(15)
Reimbursable
128.1
Related persons (cultural property)
12.104c
Related persons (NAFTA)
181 App.
Related persons (valuation of merchandise)
152.102(g)
Relative value (drawback)
191.2
Relative value (petroleum/FTZ)
146.92
Released conditionally
141.0a
Remote location filing (RLF)
143.32
Repetitive violation (special procedures)
162.71(c)
Request for record
103.5(h)
Residents (powers of attorney)
141.31
Residents (status of arriving persons)
148.2
Residue cargo
122.1
Responsible supervision and control
111.1
Reusable scrap (NAFTA)
181 App.
Right to use (NAFTA)
181 App.
Road vehicle (certification)
115.3
Royalties (NAFTA)
181 App.
Ruling
177.1(d)(1)
Sales promotion, marketing (NAFTA)
181 App.
Same class or kind
152.102(h)
Same kind and quality article (petroleum derivatives)
191.172(b)
Sampling unit (wool and hair)
151.61(d)
Satisfactory evidence (cultural property)
12.104(c)
Schedule (drawback)
191.2
Scheduled airline
122.1
Sealed letter class mail
145.1(c)
Secretary (cultural property)
12.104
Selectivity criteria
143.32
Self-produced material (NAFTA)
181 App.
Self-propelled vehicle (export control)
192.1
Selling commission (valuation of merchandise)
152.102
Sent
10.152
Service port
101.1
Shipment
101.1
Shipping and packing costs (NAFTA)
181 App.
Shook
10.5
Similar goods (NAFTA)
181 App.
Similar materials (NAFTA)
181 App.
Similar merchandise (valuation of merchandise)
152.102(i)
Simple assembly (rules of origin)
102.1
Specific manufacturing drawback ruling
191.2
Staple length (cotton)
151.81
Statement processing
143.32
State party (cultural property)
12.104
Stone carving/wall art
12.105
Sub-component (NAFTA)
181 App.
Subject to a regional value-content requirement
181 App.
Submission
141.0a(c)
Substantial transformation (assembled abroad)
10.14(b)
Substituted merchandise/articles (drawback)
191.2(x)
Subzone (foreign trade zones)
146.1
Sufficient information (valuation of merchandise)
152.102(j)
Summons (recordkeeping)
163.1(j)
Switchblade knife
12.95(a)
Sugar degree
151.21(a)
Tariff provision (NAFTA)
181 App.
Tariff-rate quotas
132.1
TECRO/Al carnet (carnets)
114.1
Territory (NAFTA)
10.26
Textile component
10.25
Textile component (CBI)
10.195
Textile or apparel product
10.26, 102.21
Theatrical scenery, properties and apparel
10.33(b)
Third-party recordkeeper (recordkeeping)
163.1(l)
Time of separation (petroleum/FTZ)
146.92
TIR carnet (carnets)
114.1
Tonnage years
4.20
Total cost (NAFTA)
181 App.
Total sugars (sugars, sirups and molasses)(See also sugars, syrups and molasses)
151.21(b)
Transaction value (NAFTA)
181.1
Transaction value method (NAFTA)
181 App.
Transfer (foreign trade zones)
146.1
Transfer/transferred
122.112
Transit air cargo
122.112
Transit air cargo manifest
122.112
Treasury Dept. or any representative of the Treas. Dept.
111.1
Treaty vessel
4.96
Ultimate purchaser (export control)
192.1
Ultimate purchaser (marking)
134.1(d)
Unclaimed merchandise
127.11
Unique identifier (foreign trade zones)
146.1
United States (marking)
134.1
United States (NAFTA)
181.1
United States/U.S. (cultural property)
12.104
Unit price in greatest aggregate quantity
152.102(k)
U.S.
122.1, 122.141, 122.151
U.S. (American fisheries)
10.78(b)
Used (export control)
192.1
Used (NAFTA)
181.1, 181 App.
User fee airport
122.1
User (foreign trade zones)
146.1
U.S. mainland (harbor maintenance fee)
24.24
Utilitarian use (switchblade knife)
12.95
Value limitation (insular possessions)
7.3
Value (NAFTA)
181.1
Value of materials (CFTA)
10.305
Value of the goods when exported
10.305(c)
Value (rules of origin)
102.1
Verification (drawback)
191.2
Verification of origin (NAFTA)
181 App.
Vessel
4.0
Vessel, arrival
4.0
Vessel, citizen
4.0
Vessel, convention (fisheries)
4.96
Vessel, departure
4.0
Vessel, documented
4.0
Vessel, (fees for services)
24.22
Vessel, noncontiguous territory of the U.S.
4.0
Vessel, nonconvention cargo (fisheries)
4.96(a)(3)
Vessel, nonconvention fishing (fisheries)
4.96(a)(2)
Vessel of the U.S.
4.0
Vessel, treaty (fisheries)
4.96(a)(4)
Voluntarily
181.82
Weighted average (petroleum/FTZ)
146.92
Wholly assembled
102.21
AGOA (African Growth and Opportunity Act)
10.212
CBTPA (Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership Act)
10.222
Wholly formed
AGOA (African Growth and Opportunity Act)
10.212
CBTPA (Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership Act)
10.222
Wholly the growth
ATP
10.202
GSP
10.176
Wholly the growth, product, or manufacture (CBI)
10.191(b)(3)
Wool product
11.12
Zone lot (foreign trade zones)
146.1
Zone site (foreign trade zones)
146.1
Zone status (foreign trade zones)
146.1
DEMAND FOR RETURN TO CUSTOMS CUSTODY—Form
141.113
DENATURING OF VEGETABLE OILS
10.56
DEPARTURE BEFORE REPORT OF VESSEL OR VEHICLE—Penalty
4.6
DERELICTS—Vessels, report of arrival
4.2(c)
DESCRIPTIVE LIST OF THEATRICAL EFFECTS, FILMS, AND TRAVELERS' SAMPLES TAKEN ABROAD AND RETURNED
10.68, 10.69
DESIGNATION OF EXAMINATION PACKAGES
151.1-151.11
DESIGNATION OF EXAMINATION PACKAGES, INFORMATION AS TO RESTRICTED
151.4, 151.5
DESTRUCTION
Abandoned merchandise subject to sale—Application—Form
158.43, 158.44
Articles subject to internal revenue tax
127.28(g)
In lieu of payment of duty on merchandise in bond
158.43
Merchandise—Expenses of supervision of
24.17
Rejected merchandise
Food and drug products
159.55
Plants and plant products
Refund of duty
12.15
Viruses, serums, toxins, etc.
12.20-12.23
Seizure
162.46(d), 162.50(c)
DETENTION, VESSEL OR VEHICLE
162.22
DIPLOMATIC AND CONSULAR OFFICERS—Free entry privilege
148.82, 148.85
DISASSEMBLED ENTITIES
141.58
DISASSEMBLY
181.132
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION
Judicial proceedings
Part 103, subpart B
Restricted access
Part 103, subpart C
Under the FOIA
Part 103, subpart A
DISCLOSURE, PRIOR, PENALTIES
162.74
DISMANTLED VESSELS, TREATMENT OF CARGO AND STORES
4.40, 4.41
DISPOSITION OF GOODS AFTER SUMMARY FORFEITURE
162.46
DISTILLED SPIRITS, BOTTLES AND SIMILAR CONTAINERS, IMPORTED
Regulations of Internal Revenue Service applicable
11.7
DISTILLED SPIRITS, WINES, AND MALT LIQUORS
Marking requirements
11.6
Summary forfeiture
162.46(e)
DIVERSIONS
Bonded merchandise
18.5
Vessel, while en route
4.91
Vessel or cargo, emergency
4.33
Vessel supplies
10.63
DOCK PASSES
4.1
DOCUMENTED, DEFINITION
4.0(c)
DOCUMENTS
Availability of
10.24, Part 103
Extension of time to produce
113.43
Free entry
Cancellation of bond (or charge against bond)
10.64, 113.51
Late filing of
10.112
Missing—Bond for
141.66
Official, charge for copies of
103.10
Reduced duty, late filing of
10.112
Time for production of missing documents
113.42, 113.43
Waiver of requirement for—Effect on liability
113.53
DOMESTIC CONTAINERS RETURNED—Procedure
10.7
DOMESTIC INTERESTED PARTY(IES), APPEALS AND PROTESTS BY
Petitions
Contents
175.12
Court decision, procedure following
175.31
Decision, procedure following
175.22-175.24
Public inspection
175.21
Published notice of filing
175.21
When and how filed
175.11
Requests for classification, appraised value and rate of duty
175.1, 175.2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC - CENTRAL AMERICA - UNITED STATES FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (CAFTA-DR)
Part 10, subpart J
Textile and apparel goods, refunds of excessive duties on
10.699
DONATIONS OF TECHNOLOGY
133.61
DRAWBACK
191
Abstract of manufacturer's records
191.2, 191.23
Agency
191.9
Aircraft, supplies for
191.141
Allowance
191.4
Allowance, Meats cured with imported salt
191.121
American goods returned—Dutiability
10.3
Ascertainment of
191.105
Authority of the Commissioner of Customs
191.1
Claims filed under NAFTA
191.0a
Definitions
191.2
Designation of imported merchandise, substitution
191.32
Distilled Spirits, wines or beers which are unmerchantable, etc.
Part 191, subpart P
Destruction of merchandise
191.166
Documentation
191.163
Exportation by mail
191.165
Liquidation
191.167
Procedure
191.162
Refund of taxes
191.161
Returned to Customs custody
191.164
Time limit for exportation or destruction
191.168
Documents, powers of attorney required for signing of
191.6
Documents required to complete claim
Notice of exportation—Form
191.51-191.53
Duties and fees subject or not subject to drawback
191.3
Duties paid to Puerto Rico, drawback on
191.5, 191.151
Entries
Liquidation of
191.81
Suspension of liquidation until rate established
191.81
Exportation and destruction
Part 191, subpart G
Certification of exportation by mail
191.74
Exportation by the Government
191.75
Exportation, notice of
191.35, 191.36, 191.51-191.53, 191.91
Exportation procedures
191.72
Falsification of drawback claims
191.62, 191.194
Foreign-Built Jet Aircraft Engines Processed in the United States
Part 191, subpart N
Guam
191.5, 191.151
Guantanamo Bay Naval Station
191.5, 191.151
Identification of imported merchandise
191.22, 191.23
Identification of merchandise or articles by accounting method
191.14
Import entries, charges against for
191.81
Import entries, liquidation
191.81
Internal Revenue Tax on Flavoring Extracts and Medicinal or Toilet Preparations (Including Perfumery) Manufactured From Domestic Tax-Paid Alcohol
Part 191, subpart J
Landing certificates
191.76
Liquidation and Protest of Drawback Entries
Part 191, subpart H
Liquidation of duties
Part 159
Liquidation of entries, bulletin notice of
159.9
Liquidation of import entries necessary prior to allowance of
191.81
Manufacturing
Part 191, subpart B
Person entitled to claim drawback
191.28
Time limitations
191.27
Materials for construction and equipment of vessels and aircraft
Part 191, subpart M
Allowance
191.111
Procedure
191.112
Meats cured with imported salt
191.121-191.123
Merchandise Exported From Continuous Customs Custody
Part 191, subpart O
Merchandise not conforming to sample or specifications or shipped without the consent of the consignee
181.45, 181.47, 191.185
Merchandise shipped to U.S. possessions
191.5, 191.151
Merchandise sold to U.S. Government
191.4
Merchandise Transferred to a Foreign Trade Zone From Customs Custody
Part 191, subpart R
Modernized
190
Multiple products
191.2, 191.22, 191.23, 191.81
Notice of exportation
Certification by port director
191.51-191.53
Form
191.51-191.53
Numbering
191.51-191.53
Time of filing, limitations as to
191.51-191.53
Notice of intent to export
191.35, 191.36, 191.91
Notice of lading, supplies for vessels or aircraft
191.72, 191.112
Powers of attorney
191.6
Proposal
Proper applicant
191.21(a)
Sample
191.21(c)
Subcontractors
191.21(a)(2)
Protests
191.7
Quantities of merchandise, ascertainment
191.22
Rate, application, establishment
191.22
Recordkeeping
191.15
Record of, on import entries
191.71
Records, manufacturers'
191.22, 191.23
Rejected merchandise
191.142, 191.165
Renewal of rate
191.22
Restrictions
Part 181, subpart E
Salt used for curing meats
191.121-191.123
Samoa
191.5, 191.151
Statement of manufacturer (basis for rate)
191.22
Substitution of Finished Petroleum Derivatives
Part 191, subpart Q
Time limitations
191.27, 191.32(d)
Two or more products, distribution
191.81
Unused merchandise
Part 191, subpart C
Destruction under Customs supervision
191.37
Direct identification
191.31
Failure to file “Notice of Intent to Export Destroy or Return Merchandise for Purposes of Drawback”
191.36
Notice of intent to export; examination of Merchandise
191.35
Records
191.38
U.S. possessions, applicability on shipments to
191.5, 191.151
Verification of drawback claims
191.61
Vessels
Documents required to complete claim
191.51, 191.52
Material for original construction and equipment
Part 191, subpart M
Virgin Islands, shipments to
191.5, 191.151
Wastes, valuable
Part 191, subpart B
DRUGS, ETC.—Importation procedure
12.1, 12.3-12.5
DRUMS (substantial containers or holders)
Domestic manufacture returned
10.7(a)
Duty to be collected in lieu of drawback paid, amount of
10.7(f)
Foreign manufacture exported and returned
10.7(b)
DUMPING DUTIES
159.41, 159.58
DUNNAGE
4.14, 4.39
DUTIABLE CONTENTS METAL BEARING MATERIALS
19.19, 151.55
DUTIES
Abandoned merchandise—Refund
Part 158, subpart D
Accrue, when
141.1
Additional
Antiques
159.45
Articles not legally marked
134.2, 159.46
Discrimination by foreign country
159.42
Dumping
159.41, 159.58
Foreign export duties, etc., contingent upon
159.44
Allowance
Casualty, loss, or theft while in Customs custody
Part 158, subpart C
Damaged or defective merchandise
Part 158, subpart B
Destroyed, abandoned, or exported merchandise
Part 158, subpart D
Excessive moisture, etc.
151.46, 158.13
Merchandise lost, stolen, destroyed, injured, abandoned, or shortshipped
159.8
Natural force or leakage
158.7
Nonimportation
158.11
Perishable and condemned merchandise
158.11, 158.14
Shortages, lost or missing packages
158.3
Warehoused merchandise
144.3, 144.4
Bill to importer for increased or additional—Form
24.11
Change in rates
152.16, 152.17, 175.22, 177.10
Chargeable
127.33
Checks receivable in payment of
24.1
Computation of
159.1, 159.3, 159.4, 159.6, 141.104
Consignee's liability for
141.19, 141.20
Corn or maize seed, reduced rate
10.57
Countervailing
159.47
Death of importer
141.1
Deficit after applying proceeds of sale
127.37
Difference between liquidated and estimated duties
159.6
Dumping
159.58
Effective date
141.1
Erroneous construction of law or regulation—Importer's liability
141.1
Estimated
Depositing of
Part 141, subpart G
On entries
Part 141, subpart G
Raw sugar
151.22
Warehouse entries, on
144.12
Flat rate
148.102
Government importations
10.100-10.104, 141.102(d)
Importations having a value not exceeding $200
10.151
Importer's liability as a personal debt
141.1
Increased (possible)
141.105, 152.2
Insolvency of importer
141.1
Insufficient proceeds of sale
127.37
Liability for
162.80
Liability for—Warehouse merchandise
144.2, 144.3
Lien on merchandise
141.1(d)
Marking, assessment of
134.2, 159.46
Noncommercial importations of limited value
Part 148, subpart J
Personal debt
141.1(b)
Potatoes, seed—Reduced rate of duty
10.57
Priority of Government claim for
141.1(c)
Protest of payment
145.22, 174.11
Rates of informal mail entry
145.12
Rates of, to be noted on invoice
141.90
Receipt for, baggage declarations—Forms
148.27
Receipts for formal or appraisement entries—Form
24.3
Refund of
Certain leather-related articles
10.198a
Exportation of merchandise from Customs custody
158.45
Reliquidation, refunds
24.36, 176.31
To whom payable
24.36
Salt for curing fish—Conditionally free
10.80, 10.81,10.83
Seized merchandise
148.18, 148.19
Seizure or Penalty—Collection
148.19, 162.79(b)
Smuggled articles
148.18(a)
Special, on articles imported under agreements in restraint of trade
159.44
States not exempt from payment of
141.1(e)
Supplies for vessels exempt from
10.59
Vessel repair
Part 4
Wool and hair products after determining clean content
151.65
DUTY-FREE ENTRY FOR CERTAIN BEVERAGES PRODUCED IN CANADA FROM CARIBBEAN RUM
10.199
DUTY-FREE STORES
19.35-19.39
DUTY-FREE TREATMENT FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICAN COUNTRIES
10.178a
DUTY-FREE TREATMENT; PUERTO RICO
10.198b
DUTY-PAID GOODS IN PUBLIC STORES OR BONDED WAREHOUSE UNDELIVERED—Disposition
127.14
E
EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES, ARTICLES FOR
10.67
EFFECTS OF CITIZENS DYING ABROAD
148.54
EFFECTS, PERSONAL AND HOUSEHOLD
Military, Civilian employees of U.S. and evacuees
Part 148, subpart H
Noncommercial importations of limited value
Part 148, subpart J
Nonresidents
Part 148, subpart E
Returning residents
Part 148, subpart D
Repairs or alterations
148.31(b)
EGGS AND PLUMAGE OF WILD BIRDS, IMPORTATION—Restrictions
12.29
ELECTRONIC ENTRY AND ENTRY SUMMARY DOCUMENTATION
143.31-37, 143.39
Remote location filing
Part 143, subpart E
ELECTRONIC INFORMATION FOR AIR CARGO REQUIRED IN ADVANCE OF ARRIVAL
122.48a
ELECTRONIC INFORMATION FOR OUTWARD CARGO REQUIRED IN ADVANCE OF DEPARTURE
192.14
ELECTRONIC MANIFEST REQUIREMENT FOR CREW MEMBERS AND NON-CREW MEMBERS ON-BOARD COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT ARRIVING IN, CONTINUING WITHIN, AND OVERFLYING THE UNITED STATES
122.49b
ELECTRONIC MANIFEST REQUIREMENT FOR CREW MEMBERS AND NON-CREW MEMBERS ONBOARD COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT DEPARTING FROM THE UNITED STATES
122.75b
ELECTRONIC MANIFEST REQUIREMENT FOR PASSENGERS ONBOARD COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT ARRIVING IN THE UNITED STATES
122.49a
ELECTRONIC MANIFEST REQUIREMENT FOR PASSENGERS ONBOARD COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT DEPARTING FROM THE UNITED STATES
122.75a
ELECTRONIC PASSENGER AND CREW ARRIVAL MANIFESTS
4.7b
ELECTRONIC PASSENGER AND CREW MEMBER DEPARTURE MANIFESTS
4.64
ELECTRONIC PRODUCTS
12.90, 12.91
EMERGENCY—Diversion of cargo
4.33
EMERGENCY LANDING, AIRCRAFT
122.35
EMERGENCY PURCHASES OF WAR MATERIAL ABROAD
10.102(b)
EMERGENT TEMPORARY USE OF FIRE-FIGHTING, RESCUE AND RELIEF EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES
10.107
EMISSION STANDARDS
12.73
ENERGY CONSERVATION
12.50
ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT OF 1975
12.50
ENFORCEMENT POWERS
Part 161
ENGINES, NONROAD, COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL ANTIPOLLUTION EMISSION REQUIREMENTS
12.74
ENGLISH LANGUAGE; REQUIREMENT
122.4, 141.86
ENGRAVINGS, BOOKS, ETC.—U.S. Agencies, conditionally free
10.46, 145.37
ENGRAVINGS—Free entry, evidence required
10.48
ENTRIES
Affidavits required to accompany
12.6
Engines, nonroad
12.74
Filing of—When
141.4, 141.5
Form of
141.61, 143.31-143.37, 143.39
Gauging, measuring, or weighing order when noted on
141.86(f)
Requirements on
141.61-141.64, 141.66-141.68
Shipments arriving on one vessel or vehicle consigned to one consignee—Separate, when
141.51, 141.52
Signing of
141.61(b)
ENTRY AND CLEARANCE, AIRCRAFT
122.41, 122.42, 122.62, 122.64, 122.77
ENTRY AND CLEARANCE—Vessels, who may make
4.9
ENTRY DOCUMENT—Carnet
114.3
ENTRY—Gifts, not exceeding $100 in value, no entry required
10.152
ENTRY OF MERCHANDISE
Abandoned or destroyed goods—Duty allowance
158.41-158.44
Actual owner's declaration—superseding bond
141.20
Administrator or executor may make
141.14
Agent of consignee may make
141.19(b)
Applicable rate of duty
141.69
Appraisement entries
Form and procedure
143.11-143.16
Liquidation of
159.9
Warehouse entries may be substituted for
143.16
Arrival as condition for
141.63, 141.68
Auditory or visual materials
10.121
Automated broker interface (ABI)
143.1-143.8
Automobiles, safety standards
12.80
Baggage—
Declaration and baggage entries—Forms
148.6, 148.11-148.17
Formal entry, when not required
148.23(c), 143.21
Liquidation of, entries
159.10
Baggage not declared penalty
148.18
Bills of lading
141.11
Boats, safety standards
12.85
Bond for production of bill of lading
141.15
Bonded cartman or lighterman to be designated on warehouse entry
125.11
Bonded merchandise, cartman to be designated by importer
125.22
Caribbean Basin Initiative
10.191-10.198
Cheeses
12.6
Commercial invoices, when and when not required
141.91, 141.92, 141.81-141.83
Condemned perishable goods—Duty allowance
158.14
Conditionally free, cancellation of bond
10.39
Consignee
141.19, 141.20, 101.1, 141.14
Consolidated shipments
141.52-141.54, 141.61(d)(2)
Damaged goods, duty allowance
158.11, 158.12, 158.14, 158.21-58.27
Declarations required on entry
141.19, 141.20
Derelict merchandise, ships' stores, equipment, etc.
4.40, 4.41
Discrepancy between shipment and invoice—Liquidation
152.3
Duty liability
141.1-141.3
Electronic entry
Part 143, subparts D and E
Entered for consumption
141.0a(f)
Entered for warehouse
141.0a(g)
Entered for temporary importation bond
141.0a(h)
Entire consignment, when to be covered by one entry
141.51, 141.52
Estimated duties to be deposited by importer
143.28, 143.15, 141.101-141.105
Estimation of duties on entries
141.90
Entry, definition
141.0a(a)
Entry documentation
Assigned entry numbers
142.3a
Bond requirements
142.4
Electronic
142.3(d)
Examination
142.7
Failure to file timely
142.8
Invoice requirements
142.6
Required
142.3
Time for filing
142.2
Entry, rate of duty
141.69
Entry summary
Definition
141.0a(b)
Delinquent payment
142.14
Electronic entry/entry summary
143.31-143.37, 143.39, 143.44
Failure to file timely
142.15
Form
142.11, 142.16
Mandatory filing
142.13
Multiple ultimate consignees
142.17a
Multiple entries
142.17
Preliminary review
141.63
Prohibited merchandise
142.18
Release of merchandise
142.19
Single for one transportation entry
141.56
Statistics
141.61(e)
Entry, time of
141.68
Evidence of right to make
141.11
Excessive moisture and other impurities—Duty allowance
158.13
Exportation, direct
18.25
Exported under lease and returned
10.108
Express consignments
Part 128
Extracts from invoices for use in
141.84
Filing
Definition
141.0a(d)
Time and place of
141.62
Foreign corporation may make—Special requirements
141.18, 143.22, 145.12
Free under executive order
148.87, 148.88
Late filing of documents
10.112
Immediate delivery, articles for
142.0, 142.3
Immediate delivery, articles for U.S. Government
10.100-10.104
Immediate transportation without appraisement entries
18.11, 18.12, 151.9
Importer security filing (unified filing)
149.6
Imports from Guantanamo Bay Naval Station
7.11
In transit through U.S.
18.20-18.24
Incomplete invoices
141.86-141.89
Informal entries
Information to be shown on—Form
Part 141.82
Liquidation of
159.10
Informal entry procedures
128.24, 143.21, 145.31, 148.12, 148.62
Institutions, articles for
10.43, 10.49, 10.52, 145.36
Instruments and apparatus for educational and scientific institutions
10.114
Invoices
Commercial or special—Failure to produce, liquidated damages
163.6
Installment shipments
141.82
Requirements and exceptions
Part 141, Subpart F
Liability of consignee for duty
101.1,141.19, 141.20
Library of Congress, articles
10.46, 145.37
Liens
141.112
Limited to ports of entry and customs stations
101.1
Liquidation of entries
159.9, 159.10
Mail entries liquidation of
159.10
Mail importations
132.24
Over $2,000 in value
145.12
Under $2,000 in value
145.12, 145.35, 145.41
Making entry
141.61-141.64, 141.66-141.69
Manifest used as an entry for unconditionally free merchandise valued not over $250
123.7
Motor vehicles, safety standards
12.80
Motor vehicles and engines—Clean Air Act
12.73
Noncommercial importations of limited value
148.101-148.106
Nonresident consignee may make—Bond requirements
141.17
Not specified on invoice
152.3
Packed packages
141.52
Passengers baggage
148.4-148.27
Possession, when evidence of ownership for entry purposes
141.12
Powers of attorney
141.31, 141.39, 141.46, 174.3
Preliminary examination of entry papers
141.63
Preparation and form of entries
141.61-141.64, 141.66-141.69
Pro forma invoice, use
141.82, 141.84, 141.91
Quota quantity limits
132.4
Rate of duty applicable
141.69
Receiver may make
141.14
Reduced duty, late filing of documents
10.112
Reliquidation of entries upon protest
152.16, 173.2, 174.26, 174.2, 175.22, 176.31
Repairs and equipment obtained abroad for vessels
4.14
Required, when and when not
141.4, 10.151, 10.152, 148.62(b), 148.85-148.88
Rewarehouse entries
Combined rewarehouse and withdrawal for consumption
144.42
General provisions
144.34(b), 144.41
Samples, taking of, prior to
151.3-151.5
Shipments arriving on one vessel or vehicle consigned to one consignee, separate entries—When
141.51, 141.52
Shortages—Duty allowance
158.2-158.6
Softwood lumber
12.140, 12.142
Special invoices, when and when not required
141.91, 141.83
Submission, definition
141.0a(c)
Supplies for aircraft or vessels withdrawn from warehouse
Cancellation of bonds
10.64
Form and procedure
10.60
Permit for delivery
10.61
Temporary importation bond entries—Form and contents
10.31
Temporary removal and return to port before customs release
141.69
Time within which entry must be made
141.5
Trade-mark or trade names, goods bearing
133.21-133.24
Transportation and exportation entries
144.37
Transportation entries, classes of
18.10
Unclaimed merchandise
127.11
Unclaimed merchandise, entry before sale
127.14
Unfair competition, exclusion—Entry under bond
12.39
U.S., articles for
10.46, 141.102(d), 145.37, 10.100-10.104
Value to be shown by importer
141.90(c)
Value when not in excess of $200
10.151
Visual or auditory materials
10.121
Warehouse entries
General provisions
144.1-144.5, 144.7
Making entry
141.11-141.64, 141.66-141.69, 144.11-144.15
Warehouse withdrawals
Consumption
144.38
Exportation
144.37
Transportation
144.22, 144.36
When and by whom to be made
141.4
Who may make
141.11-141.20
Wrecked or abandoned at sea
141.13
ENTRY OF VESSELS
American
4.9(b)
At other than port of entry, expenses
101.4
Coastwise
Requirements
4.81, 4.83, 4.84
Via Hudson River
4.83(b)
Via St. Lawrence River
4.83(a)
Coastwise and foreign trade combined
4.89
Contiguous country, vessels arriving from—Report required
123.1, 123.34
Foreign
4.9(c)
Formal—Oath, Form
4.9(b)
Preliminary—Certification, Form
4.8
Records
4.95
Repairs and equipment obtained abroad
4.14
When required
4.3
Who may make
4.9
Yachts, when not required
4.94
EQUIPMENT AND REPAIRS
American vessels abroad
4.14
Election to proceed
162.72(a)
EQUIPMENT AND STORES OF VESSELS
Landing—Entry, when required
4.39
EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES
Aircraft searches, fire-fighting, rescue and relief
10.107
Withdrawal for vessels
10.59
EQUIPMENT, ETC., FROM WRECKED OR DISMANTLED VESSELS
4.40
ERRONEOUS CONSTRUCTION OF LAW OR REGULATION, LIABILITY FOR DUTIES
141.1
ERRORS, CORRECTION OF, ON LIQUIDATION OR RELIQUIDATION OF ENTRIES
173.1-173.5
ESTABLISHED AND UNIFORM PRACTICE
177.10(c)
ESTATES OF DECEDENTS, LIABILITY FOR DUTY
141.1
ETHYL ALCOHOL—Importation for non-beverage purposes
10.99
EXAMINATION OF MERCHANDISE
Additional packages, requisition for —Form
141.113, 151.11
Altars, etc., to be set up
151.8
Baggage in foreign countries
148.22
Cotton
151.81-151.85
Crew effects
148.62-148.67
Designation of packages
151.1-151.11
Expenses of outside examination
151.7
Immediate transportation entries
151.9
Importer's premises
Bond for return to Customs custody
151.7(d)
Cording and sealing of packages required
151.7(a)
Machinery, etc., to be set up
151.8
Mail importations
145.2, 145.4
On vessels and vehicles
162.3
Outside of public stores
151.7
Petroleum products
151.41, 151.42, 151.44-151.47
Prior to entry, inspection charges
151.5
Sugar, syrups, and molasses (See also Sugar, sirups, and molasses)
151.21-151.30
Tobacco, Cuban leaf—Examiners
151.111
Wool and hair
151.61-151.71; 151.73-151.76
EXAMINATION OF PERSONS AND BAGGAGE
162.3-162.7
EXAMINATION OF WOOL AND HAIR BY IMPORTER
151.67
EXAMINATION PACKAGES
Cartage of, to importer's premises or elsewhere
125.11-125.14
Designation of
151.1-151.11
EXCESSIVE MOISTURE AND OTHER IMPURITIES—Duty allowance
158.13
EXECUTOR
Entry by
141.14
Liability of Estate for debts due the U.S.
141.1
EXEMPTION
Allowed nonresidents
Part 148, Subpart E
Allowed returning residents
Part 148, Subpart D
Other
Part 148, Subpart F
EXEMPTION, FALSE CLAIM, FAILURE TO DECLARE PENALTY
148.18, 148.19
EXHIBITION BOND—Form
113.14
EXHIBITION, RETURN OF ARTICLES EXPORTED FOR
10.66
EXHIBITION, WORKS OF ART, AND OTHER ARTICLES
Entry
10.49
Transfer to other institution
10.49(c)
EXPENSES
Examination of merchandise outside public stores
151.7
General expenses and profit
152.105(e), 152.106(c)
Seizure and forfeiture payment of
162.51
For services rendered
24.17
EXPLOSIVE SUBSTANCES
Exportation of, on arrival
18.21(d), 18.25
Sale of unclaimed
127.22
Warehousing of, prohibited
18.25(f)
EXPORTED ARTICLES RETURNED
10.66, 10.67
EXPORT BONDS, CANCELLATION OF
113.55
EXPORT CONTROL
Definition
192.1
Liability of carriers
192.4
Penalties
192.3
Requirements for exportations
192.2
EXPORT DECLARATIONS
Filing of
4.61, 4.63, 4.75, 122.76
Incomplete—Bond
4.75
Vessel, proceeding foreign via domestic ports
4.87
EXPORTATION
Arms and munitions
4.61, 4.73, 161.2
Articles
Repaired abroad, to be
10.8
Scientific or educational purposes, return of
10.67
Atomic energy material, equipment, and devices
161.2
Bond—Cancellation of requirement for
113.55
Bonds—Form
18.25, 113.14
Cancellation of bond to produce export declaration
172.22, 113.55
Continuous Customs custody
158.45
Customs supervision
18.7, 18.45
Date of, for conversion of currency
159.32
Date of, for textiles
102.23(c)
Drawback on merchandise exported via ports outside continental U.S.
191.51-191.53
Entered merchandise in Customs custody—Liquidated and unliquidated entries
158.45
Expenses of
24.17
Helium gas
161.2
In bond—Indirect
18.26
Inspection
Part 118
Limitation of time for
18.24
Mail, dutiable articles by—Waiver of right to withdraw
145.40, 145.71
Manufacturing warehouse products
19.15
Marihuana
162.61
Merchandise
Denied admission by a Government agency
18.25, 18.26
Received under warehouse withdrawal for transportation
144.36(h)
Unclaimed, restrictions
127.14
Unentered
18.25, 18.26
Unliquidated consumption entry
18.25, 18.26
Munitions of war
161.2(a)(1)
Narcotics and certain other drugs—Requirements, penalties
12.36, 161.2, 162.61, 162.63
Port of, final
123.28
Rejected merchandise
Food and drug products
12.4
General provisions
158.45
Plants and plant products, refund of duty
12.15
Viruses, serums, and toxins
12.20, 12.23
Seizure of articles and transporting vessel, vehicle or aircraft
161.2(b)
Temporary importation bond entries
10.38, 10.39
Time of, to be used in appraising
152.1(c)
Tobacco products for consumption on vessel or aircraft deemed to be
10.65
Used self-propelled vehicles
Part 192, Subpart A
Warehouse, withdrawals for
144.37
Wild animals, birds, etc., when prohibited
12.27
EXPORTS, CONTROLLED—Seizure
161.2(b)
EXPRESS CONSIGNMENT CARRIERS
Part 128
EXTENSION OF TIME—Liquidation
159.12
F
FAILURE TO DECLARE ARTICLES IN BAGGAGE—Penalty
148.18
FAMILY GROUP, BAGGAGE DECLARATIONS
148.14, 148.34, 148.103
FATS, INEDIBLE—Exportation
4.61, 4.72
FEES
Ad valorem merchandise
24.23
Aircraft arrival
24.22, 122.29
Commercial truck
24.22(c)
Commercial vessel
24.22(b)
Container Station, establishment of
19.40(b)
Customs bonded warehouse, establishment of
19.2, 19.13
Customs brokers
24.22(h), 111.96
Customs cartage or lighterage license, issuance of
111.96, 112.22
Customhouse broker's license, issuance of
111.12, 111.19
Dutiable mail
24.22(f)
Express consignment application
128.13
Freedom of Information Act
103.10
Harbor maintenance
24.24
Issuance of a customhouse broker's license/permits
24.22(h) 111.12, 111.19,
Navigational
4.98
Patent infringement information
24.12
Passengers aboard vessels or aircraft
24.22(g)
Private vessel/aircraft
24.22(e)
Railroad car
24.22(d)
Recording
Copyright
Part 133, subpart C
Trademark
Part 133, subpart A
Tradename
Part 133, subpart B
Storage in Government buildings
24.12
Tonnage
4.20
FIBER PRODUCTS IDENTIFICATION ACT, COMPLIANCE WITH
11.12b(d)-(f)
FILMS
Exhibited on vessels
10.68
Motion picture, return of—Domestic or foreign origin
10.68(b)
When prohibited
12.41
FINAL PORT OF EXPORTATION IN CROSSING CONTIGUOUS FOREIGN TERRITORY
123.28
FINES, PENALTIES, AND FORFEITURES (See also, PENALTIES)
Applicability
162.70
Importations contrary to law
161.2(b), 162.22
Information
103.32
Notice of, to offender
162.31
Prior disclosure
162.74
Remission or mitigation of
162.31, 171.11, 171.21-171.24
FINGERPRINTS
19.2, 111.12, 112.42, 118.4, 122.182, 146.6
FIREARMS, MAIL IMPORTATIONS
145.53, 145.59
FIRE FIGHTING, RESCUE AND RELIEF EQUIPMENT FOR EMERGENT TEMPORARY USE
10.107
FISH, SALT FOR CURING
10.80, 10.81, 10.83
FISHERIES, AMERICAN
Definition
10.78
Entry products of
10.78
Limited to American vessels
4.96
Products of—Definition
10.78(d)
FISHING VESSELS TOUCHING AND TRADING AT FOREIGN PLACES—Permit form
4.15
FLAT RATE OF DUTY
148.102
FLIES, ARTIFICIAL, ENTRY PROCEDURE
12.29
FLORENCE AGREEMENT
10.114
FLUXING MATERIAL, ENTRY REQUIREMENTS
10.98
FOODS, IMPORTATION PROCEDURE
12.1, 12.3-12.5
FORCED LABOR, MERCHANDISE PRODUCED BY
12.42-12.45
FORCED LANDING, AIRCRAFT
122.35
FOREIGN ASSETS CONTROL
12.150, 145.56, 161.2
FOREIGN CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION, MATCH IMPORTATIONS
12.34
FOREIGN CERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN, MERCHANDISE NOT PRODUCED BY CONVICT, FORCED, OR INDENTURED LABOR, WHEN
12.43, 12.44
FOREIGN CORPORATION, ENTRY OF MERCHANDISE BY
141.18
FOREIGN INLAND FREIGHT
152.103(a)(5)
FOREIGN MILITARY PERSONNEL AND IMMEDIATE FAMILIES
148.90
FOREIGN REPRESENTATIVES
Diplomatic pouches, bags and mail
145.38, 148.83, 145.2
Free entry privilege
148.81, 148.82, 148.85, 148.89
Mail for
145.2
FOREIGN TRADE STATISTICS
18.25(c), 113.62(b)(3), 141.0a(b) and (d)(2), 141.92(a)(2)
FOREIGN TRADE ZONES
Part 146
Application, zone, who may file
146.9, 146.32
Carriers, use of zone by
146.12
Changes
146.7
Customs, control of merchandise in
146.51
Customs forms and procedures
146.13
Importer security filing
146.32, 149.1
Merchandise
Admission of, procedure for
146.10, Part 146, subpart C
Appraisement and tariff classification
146.65
Destruction or exhibition of
146.52
Exportation of, direct
146.67
Manipulation or manufacture of
146.52
Permitted in a zone
146.31
Release and removal from zone
146.71
Seals; authority of operator to break or affix
146.8
Sending of into Customs territory
146.61-146.68
Shortages and overages
146.53
Transfer of to another zone
146.66
Transportation of to a zone
146.11
With Zone status of
Nonprivileged domestic
146.43
Nonprivileged foreign
146.42, 146.65
Privileged domestic
146.43
Privileged foreign
146.41, 146.65
Zone restricted
146.44
Transfer into Customs territory
146.70
Penalties
146.81
Port director as board representative
146.2
Retail trade within a zone
146.14
Revocation of zone grant
146.83
Suspension
146.82
Supplies, equipment, and repair material for vessels or aircraft
146.69
FOREIGN VESSELS, BOARDING OR SEARCH
162.3
FORFEITURES
Actions for—Property valued in excess of $10,000
162.32
Appraisement of merchandise subject to forfeiture
162.43
Controlled substances, narcotics and marihuana
162.61
Compromise of claims
161.5
Copyrights, trademarks; procedures
Part 133, subpart F
Destruction of, in lieu of sale
162.46, 162.50(c)
Disposition of goods summarily forfeited
162.46
Expenses of seizure and forfeiture
162.51
Importations contrary to law
162.22
Notice of, to offender and prepenalty notice
162.31
Passengers baggage
148.18
Prior disclosure
162.74
Prohibited importation of immoral articles
12.40-12.42
Release of, upon payment of appraised value
162.44
Relief
133.51
Remission or mitigation of, by port director, when
171.21-171.24
Remission or mitigation of—Petitions
162.31, 162.32, 171.11-171.33
Reports to U.S. Attorney—When required
162.32(c), 162.47(d), 162.49
Sale of
162.45, 162.46, 162.48, 162.50, 162.51, 162.52
Seizure of property subject to
162.11-162.22, 122.161, 148.18, 148.19
Smuggling or other fraudulent acts
161.2
Summary—Disposition of goods
162.46, 162.48
Value not exceeding $500,000
162.45, 162.46, 162.48
Value not exceeding $500,000—Filing of claim and bond to stop summary forfeiture proceedings
162.47
FORMS
Reproduction or substitution
4.99, 122.5
Salable
24.14
FORMULAS, DENATURING VEGETABLE OILS
10.56
FORWARDER, FREIGHT, BONDED
18.1
FREE TRADE AGREEMENTS
Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA-DR)
Part 10, subpart J
North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) (See NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT)
United States-Bahrain Free Trade Agreement (BFTA)
Part 10, subpart N
United States-Canada Free Trade Agreement
Part 10, subpart G
United States-Chile Free Trade Agreement (US-CFTA)
Part 10, subpart H
United States-Jordan Free Trade Agreement (US-JFTA)
Part 10, subpart K
United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement (UKFTA)
Part 10, subpart R
United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA)(See UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA AGREEMENT (USMCA))
United States-Morocco Free Trade Agreement (MFTA)
Part 10, subpart M
United States-Oman Free Trade Agreement (OFTA)
Part 10, subpart P
United States-Singapore Free Trade Agreement (SFTA)
Part 10, subpart I
Trade Promotion Agreements
United States-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement(CTPA)
Part 10, subpart T
United States-Panama Trade Promotion Agreement (PANTPA)
Part 10, subpart S
United States-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement(PTPA)
Part 10, subpart Q
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT (FOIA)
103.0-103.13
Petitions By Domestic Interested Parties
175
FRESH FRUITS AND VEGETABLES FROM CANADA AND MEXICO—Special permit for immediate delivery
142.21(b)
FRUIT BOXES, SHOOKS, DUTIABLE STATUS
10.5
FRUIT, CONDEMNED
158.14
FRUIT JUICES—Brix values
151.91
FUR PRODUCTS
Definition
11.12a
Labeling of
11.12a
FURS AND FUR SKINS
12.60-12.63
FURTHER PROCESSING-VALUATION
Deductive value
152.105(i)
G
GAME ANIMALS AND BIRDS
Killed for noncommercial purposes
10.76
Live, for stocking purposes
10.76
GAUGERS, COMMERCIAL
151.13
GAUGING
Ethyl alcohol
10.99
Liquors
Bulk
11.6
Dutiable and taxable quantities
159.21
Molasses and syrups (Molasses and sirups)
151.28
Petroleum products
151.41,151.42, 151.44-151.47
Warehoused goods for exportation or transportation
144.37
GENERAL AVERAGE LIENS
141.112
GENERALIZED SYSTEM OF PREFERENCES
ATPA
10.207
Certificate of origin
10.173
Costs or value of materials produced in the beneficiary developing country
Determination of
10.177(c)
Produced in the beneficiary developing country, defined
10.177(a)
When origin is questionable
10.177(b)
Country, defined
10.171(b), 10.176(a)
Country of origin
Criteria
10.176
Evidence of—certification of origin
10.173(b)
Shipments valued in excess of $250
10.173(a)
Direct cost of processing operations
Defined
10.178(a)
Items included in
10.178(a)
Items not included in
10.178(b)
Direct shipment
Evidence of
Documents required
10.174(a)
Waiver of
10.174(b)
Imported directly, defined
10.175
Informal entry of
143.23(g)
GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES—Defined, Trade Agreements Act (1979)
152.102(c)
GENERAL ORDER
Baggage
4.37, 148.7
Defined
127.4
Merchandise
Immediate transportation entry, forwarding under
18.11
Period, how calculated
4.37
When to be sent
4.37
Period of, defined
127.4
Weighing merchandise before deposit in warehouse
4.37
Withdrawal from general order for entry or exportation
127.2
Withdrawal of less than single lot
127.2(c)
GIFTS
Baggage in
148.33(c), 148.44
Bona fide, not exceeding $100 in value
10.152, 10.153, 145.32
Flat rate of duty for noncommercial importations of limited value
Part 148, Subpart J
GLOBAL ENTRY PROGRAM
235.12
GOBELIN TAPESTRIES
10.54
GOLD ARTICLES, FALSE MARKING OF—Penalty
11.13
GOVERNMENT, IMPORTATIONS LIQUIDATION
10.104, 141.102(d)
GOVERNMENT PROCUREMENT; COUNTRY OF ORIGIN DETERMINATIONS
Part 177, Subpart B
GOVERNMENT VESSELS
Manifest of passengers and baggage
4.5
GREAT LAKES, U.S. PORTS ON—Vessels trading between such ports and other ports of U.S.
4.83
GUAM
Customs administration of
7.2
Exports to—Drawback
191.5, 191.81, 191.131, 191.151
Imports in
7.2(b)
Not within Customs territory of U.S.
7.2(a)
Unaccompanied shipments from
Part 148, Subpart K
GUANO BROUGHT IN VESSELS ENGAGED IN COASTWIDE TRADE
4.84
GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL STATION
Drawback, foreign territory for
191.5, 191.13, 191.131, 191.151
Importations from
7.11
GUNPOWDER, EXPORTATION OF, ON ARRIVAL
18.25
H
HAITIAN HEMISPHERIC OPPORTUNITY THROUGH PARTNERSHIP ENCOURAGEMENT ACT (“Haiti HOPE I and II”)
Part 10, subpart O
HARBOR MAINTENANCE FEE
24.24
Payment and refund request
24.24
HEADQUARTERS PORTS, LIST OF
101.3
HELIUM GAS, CONTROLLED EXPORTS—Seizure
161.2
HOLIDAYS
Definition
24.16
National, list of
101.6
HONEY BEES AND SEMEN
12.32
HORSES
Exported for racing
10.66
Exported for temporary exhibition
10.66, 10.67
Taken abroad temporarily; tariff status on return
148.31, 148.32
HOURS
Entry papers
141.62
Of business, official
101.6
Quota-class merchandise
132.3
HOUSEHOLD EFFECTS
Baggage
148.31, 148.51
Definitions
148.52, 148.74
Diplomatic, consular and military personnel, foreign representatives, etc.
Part 148, Subpart I
Entry of, not accompanying the importer
148.6
Entry, requirements on
148.6, 148.52
Military, civilian employees of U.S., and evacuees
148.74
Noncommercial importations of limited value
Part 148, subpart J
Reliquidation of entry
173.5
Used abroad, definition
148.52
HOUSES OF WORSHIP, STAINED OR PAINTED GLASS WINDOWS
10.52
I
IDENTICAL MERCHANDISE—Defined, Trade Agreements Act (1979)
152.102(d)
Transaction value of
152.104
IDENTIFICATION CARDS
Cartmen's employees
Part 112, subpart D
Customs employees
101.8
Customs Security Areas
Part 122, subpart S
IDENTIFICATION NUMBER
24.5
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY OF ARTICLES PRIOR TO ENTRY
Part 142, subpart C
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY OF ARTICLES PRIOR TO ENTRY—U.S. Government importations
10.100-10.104
IMMEDIATE TRANSPORTATION WITHOUT APPRAISEMENTS
By aircraft
122.92(b)
Consolidated shipments
18.11(g)
Form of entry
18.11(h)
From general order warehouse
18.11(a)
Livestock shipments
18.11(d)
Procedure at destination
18.12, 151.9, 151.7
Procedure at port of origin
18.11(c)
Restricted products
18.11(e)
Splitting shipments at port of origin
122.92(d), 18.11
To other than a port of entry
18.11(c)
Unclaimed merchandise, entry permitted when
18.12
Value stated on entry
18.11(e)
When consumption or warehouse entry may be accepted
141.55
Who may make entry
18.11(b)
IMMIGRANTS, PROFESSIONAL BOOKS—Tools of trade
148.53
IMMORAL ARTICLES—Importation prohibited
12.40,12.41
IMPORTATIONS
Atomic energy material, equipment, and devices
161.2
Contiguous country, from
123.0-123.9, 123.63
Contrary to law
161.2, 162.11, 162.22
Controlled—Penalty
161.2
Copyright articles
133.42-133.44, 133.46
Date of, definition
101.1
Engines, nonroad
12.74
Mail
Part 145
Narcotics and certain other drugs—Requirements—Penalties
12.36, 161.2, 162.61
Noncommercial importations of limited value
148.101-148.106
Restrictions
12.104g
Temporarily free of duty, metal articles
54.5, 54.6
Trademarked articles
133.21-133.24
U.S. Government, for
10.100-10.104
IMPORTATIONS BY STATES ARE DUTIABLE
141.1
IMPORTER
Identification number
24.5
Liability of, for duty
141.1
Refund of excessive duties or taxes
24.36
Request for value information
152.26
Warehouse designated by
144.11(c)
IMPORTER SECURITY FILING
Automated Broker Interface (ABI)
143.1
Bonds
113.62, 113.63, 113.64, 113.73, Appendix D - Part 113, 149.5
Break bulk cargo exemption
149.4
Bulk cargo exemption
149.4
Data elements
149.3
Definitions
149.1
Eligibility to file
149.5
Entry and entry summary (unified filing)
149.6
Flexible requirements
149.2
Foreign trade zones
146.32, 149.1
Freight remaining on board (FROB)
149.3
Immediate exportation shipments
18.5, 149.3
Powers of attorney
149.5
Requirement
149.2
Transmission
149.2
Transportation and exportation shipments
18.5, 149.3
Unified filing
149.6
Updates
149.2
Verification
149.2
Withdrawal
149.2
IMPURITIES, DUTY ALLOWANCE, WHEN
158.13
IN BOND SEALS, PROCURING AND ACCOUNTING
24.13
INBOUND EXPRESS MAIL, FEES
24.22
INCONSISTENT CUSTOMS DECISIONS
177.13
INDENTURED LABOR, MERCHANDISE PRODUCED BY—Importations prohibited
12.42-12.45
INEDIBLE FATS—Exportation
4.61, 4.72
INFORMAL ENTRIES
Generalized system of preferences
143.23
Information to be shown on—Form
141.82(d), Part 143, subpart C
Liquidation of
159.10
Procedure
143.23-143.28
INFORMATION AS TO VALUES; FURNISHED TO IMPORTERS
152.26
INFORMATION, CLASSES OF CUSTOMS DOCUMENTS EXEMPT FROM DISCLOSURE
103.12
INFORMATION COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS, APPROVAL OF
Part 178
INFORMATION, FREEDOM OF
103.0-103.13
INFORMATION, RESTRICTED
Fines, Penalties
103.32
Foreign agents
103.33
Sanctions
103.34
INFORMATION SUBJECT TO RESTRICTED ACCESS
Part 103, subpart C
INFORMERS
Awards of compensation to
161.12, 161.14-161.16
Claim for compensation—Form
161.12
Confidentiality of identity
161.15
INFRINGING COPIES—Definition
133.42
INLAND FREIGHT, FOREIGN
152.103(a)(5)
INSECTICIDES, IMPORTATION PROCEDURE
12.1, 12.3
INSOLVENT DEBTORS—Duty due U.S. is a preferred claim
141.1
INSPECTION AND SEARCH OF TRUNKS, VEHICLES, ETC., FROM CONTIGUOUS COUNTRY
123.63
INSPECTION OF CUSTOMS RECORDS
103.0-103.11
INSPECTION OF MERCHANDISE
By importer prior to entry
151.4, 151.5
Centralized examination stations
Part 118
Exported merchandise
161.2
Meat and meat food products
12.8, 12.9
INSPECTION OF PERSONS, BAGGAGE, AND MERCHANDISE ON BOARD VESSELS AND VEHICLES
162.3-162.7
INSPECTION OF VESSELS
Certificate
Required
4.66
Verification
4.61, 4.66
INSTALLMENT SHIPMENTS, INVOICES FOR
141.82
INSTITUTIONS
Character of, evidence as to
10.43
INSTRUMENTS AND APPARATUS FOR EDUCATIONAL AND SCIENTIFIC INSTITUTIONS (“Florence Agreement”), General provisions
10.114
INSTRUMENTS OF INTERNATIONAL TRAFFIC
10.41(a)
INSULAR POSSESSIONS, CUSTOMS RELATIONS
7.2, 191.5
Drawback
191.5
Duty
148.101, 148.102, Part 148, subpart K
Guantanamo Bay Naval Station
7.11
Puerto Rico, spirits, wines, and coffee
7.1
INTERCOASTAL RESIDUE CARGO PROCEDURE
4.83, 4.85, 4.86, 4.89
INTEREST CHARGES ON CERTAIN BILLS
24.3a
INTERIM (A)(1)(a) LIST
Appendix to Part 163
INTERNAL ADVICE
177.11
INTERNAL-REVENUE MARKS, ERASURE OF, AT EXPENSE OF IMPORTER
10.4
INTERNAL-REVENUE REQUIREMENTS
Cigarette papers, and tubes
11.3, 159.5
Cigars, cigarettes, medicinal preparations, and perfumery
11.1
Distilled spirits
11.6, 11.7, 134.21, 159.4
Tobacco
11.2
INTERNAL-REVENUE TAXES
American goods returned
10.3
Bill to importer for taxes due—Form
24.11
Carrier liable for, shortage, etc.
18.8
Computation of, upon liquidation
159.4, 159.6, 159.21(b)
Destruction of articles subject to
127.28(e)-(g)
Diplomatic, consular and military personnel, foreign representatives, etc., exempt from
148.89, 148.90
Ethyl alcohol for nonbeverage purposes, conditionally exempt from
10.99
Forfeited or unclaimed goods
127.28, 162.45
Importations having a value not exceeding $200
10.151
Liquor in passengers' baggage
148.26, 148.27, 148.51, 148.64
Liquor—Taxable quantity
159.21
Merchandise subject to seizure
148.18, 148.19
Refund of
24.36
Regauge of liquors for assessment of
159.21(b)
Sale of articles subject to
127.28
Supplies for vessels exempt from
10.59
Tobacco and tobacco products in baggage of nonresident
148.43
Tobacco products for consumption on vessel or aircraft
10.65
INTERNATIONAL CUSTOMS CONVENTIONS, PURSUANT TO CARGO CONTAINER AND ROAD VEHICLE CERTIFICATION
Part 115
INTERNATIONAL (Public) ORGANIZATIONS
148.87, 148.88
INTERNATIONAL TRAFFIC
10.41, 10.41a, 10.41b, Part 123, subpart B
INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION, MERCHANDISE SHIPPED IN BOND, EXAMINATION BY
18.9
IN-TRANSIT MERCHANDISE
Part 123, subparts A-F
Restricted and prohibited merchandise
18.21-18.23
Through contiguous foreign territory
Animals
123.24(a)(3), 123.27
Authority for
123.21
Manifest—Form, contents and disposition of
123.21, 123.22, 123.25
Procedure at port of exit
123.22(a), 123.28
Procedure at port of reentry
123.29
Sealing of
123.24
Seals, in bond or in transit, breaking of
123.21, 123.26, 123.29
Storage in foreign territory
123.26(b)
Train consist sheets
123.23, 123.29
Transshipment in foreign territory
123.26
Through U.S. between ports of a contiguous foreign country
Part 123, subpart D, 123.52, 123.64
IN-TRANSIT SEALS, PROCURING AND ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE
24.13
INVENTORIES OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS FOR CONSUMPTION ON VESSELS OR AIRCRAFT
10.65
INVENTORY, RAILWAY SUPPLIES, INTERNATIONAL TRAINS
123.11
INVESTIGATORY FILES—Disclosure of information
103.10(g)
INVOICES
Additional information, when required
141.86, 141.89
All invoices with entry to be numbered consecutively
141.86(h)
Baggage declarations, special or commercial invoices
148.23(c)
Bond for, canceled by photocopy
141.84(e)
Commercial
Bond for production of
141.91(d)
When required
141.83, 141.92
Cost of production, when to be shown on
141.88
Cotton
151.82
Duty rates to be noted
141.90
Entry of merchandise
Part 141, subpart F
General requirements on
141.86
Goods arriving within a period of 10 days
141.82
Information required on
141.86-141.92
Mail shipments
145.11
Merchandise found not to correspond with invoice description
152.3
Merchandise, list of, requiring special information
141.89
Multiple
141.61(f)
Photocopies from, for entry purposes
141.84
Pro forma
141.82, 141.84, 141.85, 141.91, 141.92, 142.22
Required on entry
Exceptions
141.83, 141.91, 141.92
Single shipment to be covered
141.81, 141.82(a), 141.84
Requirements
142.6
Separate sheets to be numbered
141.86(h)
Single
141.61(f)
Special
Bond for productions of
141.91, 141.92
Entry procedures
143.27
When required
141.83
Time limit, failure to produce—Liquidated damages
172.22
Wool and hair
151.62
INWARD CARGO, ACCOUNTING FOR
4.61, 4.62
IRREGULAR DELIVERY OF BONDED MERCHANDISE
18.6
J
JEWELRY AND ARTICLES OF PERSONAL ADORNMENT EXEMPTIONS, SALE OF
148.46
JOHNSTON ATOLL
7.2, 191.5
JORDAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (See, UNITED STATES-JORDAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT)
JUICES, FRUIT—Brix values
151.91
JUDICIAL REVIEW
103.9, 112.30(f), 151.12(g) and (k), 151.13(e) and (i), 174.31, Part 176
Disclosure of information
Part 103, subpart B
K
KIMBERLEY PROCESS CERTIFICATE
12.152, 163.2, 178.2
KINGMAN REEF
4.0, 4.21, 122.0, 134.1, 191.5, 191.101, 191.151
UNITED STATES-KOREA FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (See, FREE TRADE AGREEMENTS)
L
LABELING
Fur products
11.12a
Textile fiber products
11.12b
Wool products
11.12
LABELING STANDARDS
12.50
LABELS, IN BOND, IN LIEU OF CORDS AND SEALS—Form
18.4
LABORATORY, COMMERCIAL
151.12, 151.14
LABORATORY TESTING (WOOL AND HAIR)
151.71
LADING AND UNLADING OF VESSELS, PERMIT OR SPECIAL LICENSE FOR—Form
4.30
LADING, EXPORTATION IN BOND, CUSTOMS SUPERVISION
18.7
LADING, CERTIFICATE OF, FOR AIRCRAFT
122.94
LADING OR UNLADING, VEHICLES AND VESSELS OF LESS THAN 5 NET TONS FROM CONTIGUOUS COUNTRY, PERMITS FOR
123.8
LANDING CARGO AT OTHER THAN PORT OF DESTINATION DUE TO DISTRESS
4.32
LANDING CERTIFICATES
Cancellation of export bonds
113.51, 113.55
Foreign merchandise destined for foreign ports—Bond
4.88
Temporary importation bond—Exportation
10.39
Waivers
113.55(c)(3)
LARGE YACHTS IMPORTED FOR SALE
4.94a
LASH-TYPE BARGES
4.81a
LAY-ORDER PERIOD, EXTENSION OF, HOW CALCULATED
4.37
LEASE, ARTICLES UNDER, EXPORTED AND REIMPORTED
10.108
LEATHER ARTICLES
10.198a
LETTERS, SEARCH AND SEIZURE
162.4
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
Articles for
10.46, 145.37(a)
Books, engravings, etc., conditionally free
10.46, 145.37(b)
LICENSE FOR CERTAIN WORSTED WOOL FABRIC SUBJECT TO TARIFF-RATE QUOTA
132.18
LICENSE, SPECIAL FOR UNLADING AND LADING
4.30, 122.38
LICENSES
Carriers, cartmen and lightermen
112.30
Cartmen and lightermen to produce
112.28
Cartmen's suspension or revocation
112.30
CES; revocation
118.21
Customs brokers
111.0
Revocation
Part 111, subpart D
Gaugers revocation
151.13
Importations in vessel less than 30 net tons
4.100
Laboratories; revocation
151.12
Yachts, pleasure, when required
4.94
LICENSING AND BONDING OF CARTMEN AND LIGHTERMEN
Part 112, subpart C
LIENS
Discharge of
141.112
Duty constitutes
141.1
Freight and other charges
141.112(a)(1), 171.44
Payment from proceeds of sales
127.31
Seized property—Awarded for official use—Payment of liens
171.44
LIGHTERAGE
Part 112, subparts A, C and D; Part 125; 127.32
LIGHTERMEN, designation of, on warehouse entry
144.11
LIGHTERMEN'S BOND
113.63
LIGHTERS, ETC., MARKING OF LICENSED
112.27
LIGHT MONEY
Exemptions
4.21
Payment of—Certificate, form
4.23
Refund of
4.24
Table, classes of vessels
4.20
LIQUIDATED DAMAGES
Bonded cartmen, failure to remove marking
112.27(d)
Carnets, fraud, violation, or abuse of privileges
114.33, 114.34
Copyrights, trademarks
Part 133, subpart F
Decisions not protestable
172.22
Failure to petition for relief
172.2
Free withdrawal of supplies
10.59
Notice of liquidated damages incurred
172.1(a)
Petition for relief
133.51, Part 172, subparts A-C
Return to Customs custody, failure to
10.39(e), 141.113(g)
Temporary importation bond—Application for relief
10.39(e)
Temporary importation bond, assessment under
10.39
Under carrier's bond
18.8
LIQUIDATION
Appraisement entries
159.9
Articles not specified on invoice
152.3
Baggage entries
159.10
Bonded merchandise—Shortages
18.6
Bulletin notice—Forms
159.9, 159.10
Change in rate of duty by
Congress or presidential proclamation
152.17
Court decision
152.16
Headquarters decisions
174.27, 174.29, 175.22, 177.10
Classification, change in
152.2
Clerical errors, correction of
Part 173
Commingling of goods
152.13
Computation of duties
141.104, 159.1, 159.3, 159.4, 159.6
Conditionally free—Failure to produce missing documents
172.22
Conversion of currency
Part 159, subpart C
Courtesy notice
159.9(d)
Currency, basis for conversion of
159.35
Deemed
159.1
Difference between estimated and liquidated duties
159.6
Effective date of rate of duty
152.16, 159.7(b), 177.10
Entries
Discrepancy on—New entry required
152.3
Drawback
191.71
Informal
159.10
Mail
159.10
Protest
145.22(c)
Merchandise entered by false documents and seized
162.80
Rewarehouse
159.7
Subject to—Exceptions
159.2
Stamped with date
159.9(c)
Visual or auditory materials, suspension
10.121(b)
Warehouse
159.9, 159.21, 159.52
Withdrawals
159.9
Evidence
159.9(c)
Excessive duties or taxes paid, notice of refund of—Form
24.36
Exportation, date of
159.32
Extension of time
159.12
Fractional parts of dollar or unit of quantity
159.3
Instruments and apparatus
10.114
Internal revenue taxes, computation of
159.4, 159.21
Merchandise manipulated in warehouse
159.21(a)
Method of
159.3-159.10
Net weight, when basis for
159.21, 159.22
Notice of
159.9, 159.10
Operation of law
159.11
Protests against
174.11, 174.12, 174.14
Accelerated disposition of
Rates of exchange
159.31, 159.38
Required
159.2
Shortages, allowance of
18.6, 158.2-158.6
Smelting or refining of metal-bearing materials, entries of
151.55
Special duties
Part 159, subpart D
Suspension of
159.51-159.53, 159.54, 159.55
Weight, gauge, or measure
159 subpart B
LIQUORS
Aircraft kits
Part 122, subpart M
Baggage of diplomatic officials or other representatives
148.81, 148.82, 148.87-148.90
Blending, permit requirements
12.37
Bottles and similar containers, imported
11.7
Bottling, permit requirements
12.37
Bulk importations (in casks and similar containers)
11.6
Certificate for shipments on small vessels—Penalty
4.13
Crewmembers' declarations and exemptions
148.66
Distilled spirits and wines shipped to Puerto Rico
7.1
Foreign military personnel, exemptions
148.90
Importation restricted, permits
12.37
Labeling packages, requirements—penalty
12.38
Nonresidents
148.43
Quantities dutiable or taxable
159.21
Residents
148.33
Strip stamps for bottled
11.6, 11.7
Taxes, internal revenue
148.26(b)
LITERATURE, TREASONABLE, ETC.—Importation prohibited
12.40, 145.51
LIVESTOCK
Exported for exhibition, return—Entry requirements
10.66
Immediate transportation restricted
18.11
LOAD-LINE REGULATIONS
4.61, 4.65a
LOCOMOTIVES
Domestic, repaired in foreign country—Dutiable status
123.13
Foreign, operating in U.S.—Entry of, when not required
123.12
LOSS OF MERCHANDISE IN PUBLIC STORES
158.26
LOTTERY MATTER, MAIL IMPORTATIONS, PROHIBITION
145.51, 146.1
LUMBER, SOFTWOOD FROM CANADA
12.140
LUMBER, SOFTWOOD FROM ANY COUNTRY
12.142
M
MACHINERY, EXAMINATION OF, AT MILL OR FACTORY
151.8
MAIL
Absolute quota merchandise
Part 132, subpart C
Books, engravings, etc., for Government departments or agencies
145.37
Books or other articles imported for institutions
145.36
Carnets not accepted for importation by mail
114.31(a)
Carriage on vessels
4.61
Cigars
11.1, 11.2, 145.13
Commercial shipments, invoice requirements
145.11(b)
Copyright, articles marked for
145.37
Customs declarations and invoices required
145.11(a)
Diplomatic pouches, official documents
145.38
Duties, refund of
Part 145, subpart C
Entry
Examination of
145.2, 145.3
Firearms
145.53
Formal
145.12(a)
Forms
145.12(e)(2)
Free, conditionally
10.43, 10.46, 145.12(d), 145.35-145.39, 145.41
Gifts valued not over $100
145.32
Informal
145.12(b)
Institutions, free list of; books, music, etc., for
10.43, 145.36,
Internal revenue tax on mail entries
11.1(a), 145.13
Liquidation of
159.9, 159.10
Lottery matter
145.51
Marking requirements law (Search for letters)
162.4
Personal and household effects
145.34
Plant material for export
145.40, 145.57
Plants and plant products
145.57
Prohibited or restricted articles, disposition of
145.4, Part 145, subpart E
Protests
145.22, 145.23
Rates of duty in effect
145.12(b)(2)
Reading of correspondence, when prohibited
145.2, 145.3
Review of
Part 145, subpart C
Search for letters
162.4
Search warrant to read foreign mail
145.3
Seizure of, addressee to be notified
145.59(b)
Seizure, when imported contrary to law
145.4, 145.59
Separate shipments, combining for entry
145.12(a)(3)
Shipments not exceeding $200 in value
145.31
Trademarks, trade names and copyrights
145.55
Tools of trade
145.34
Undeliverable, detention and disposition of
145.5
U.S. Government offices or officials, articles for
145.12(c)
Value exceeding $2,000, entry of
145.12(a)(2)
Value not more than $200
145.31
When not exceeding $2,000 in value
145.4, 145.12(b), 145.41
Exportations
Continuous Customs custody
145.71
Imported articles, remission of duties, when
145.40, 145.71, 145.72
Plant material
145.40
Waiver of right to withdraw
145.71(b)
Fees, dutiable mail
24.22(f)
Foreign representatives, for
145.2(b)(3), 145.38, 145.39, 148.83, 148.85
Importations
Abortion and contraceptive matter
145.52
Absolute quota merchandise
Part 132, subpart C
Addressee dissatisfied with duties assessed
Part 145, subpart C
Administrative review of mail entries
Part 145, subpart C
Alcoholic beverages, nonmailable
145.54
American, Samoa, Guam, or Virgin Islands, from
Part 148, subpart K
MAIZE SEED—Reduced rate
10.57
MANIFESTS
Air commerce
122.22(b), 122.49a, 122.49b, 122.49c, 122.75a, 122.75b
Amendment of, bulk cargo
4.12
Baggage
Domestic, through contiguous foreign territory
123.21, 123.65
Foreign, from contiguous foreign territory
123.3-123.5
In bond—Form
18.13
In transit through U.S.
18.14, 123.64
Boarding vessels for examination of
162.3
Cargo, departure with to noncontiguous territory
4.84
Cargo from wrecked vessel
4.41
Cargo, vessels trading between U.S. ports on Great Lakes and other U.S. ports
4.83
Coastwise, vessel touching at foreign port
4.82
Commercial travelers' samples
Accompanied through Canada and return
10.68, 123.21, 123.51
Accompanied through U.S. and return to Canada
10.68, 123.21, 123.52
Confidential treatment of information
103.31(d)
Contiguous countries, vehicles and vessels less than 5 net tons, from—Form
123.3, 123.4, 123.7
Delivery to boarding officer
4.7
Discrepancies in—Penalty
4.12
Diversion of cargo from port shown on, amendment of
4.33
Entry of merchandise; line release
142.46, 142.48
Failure to manifest articles when required
4.7a(b)(4)
Failure to manifest narcotic drugs or marihuana
162.65
Failure to list crew's purchases
4.7a(b)(4)
Form
18.2, 122.92
Government vessel from foreign port, required
4.5
In-transit
Baggage through foreign territory, form
123.64, 123.65
Commercial travelers' samples
Merchandise through contiguous foreign territory, form
Part 123, subpart C
Merchandise through U.S., form
Part 123, subpart D
Truck procedures
123.41, 123.42
Inward Foreign
Contents, forms
4.7
Information required and alternative forms
4.7a
Shipments of containerized or palletized cargo
4.7a(c)(1)
Shipper's load and count and use of term “SLAC”
4.7a(c)(2)
Merchandise transported in bond
Conveyance, manifest to accompany each
18.2, 18.3
Disposition of
18.2
Merchandise valued not over $250 unconditionally free, manifest used as entry
123.7
Outward foreign
Before clearance
4.61, 4.63, 4.75
Incomplete, bond
4.75
Passenger—Unaccompanied baggage on board vessel
4.7a(e)(4)
Permit, used as
18.2
Prematurely discharged or overcarried cargo, form
4.34
Refusal of master to produce to boarding officer, penalty
4.7
Sea and ships' stores, etc., when to be manifested
4.7, 4.7a
Special manifest
18.10a
Transit air cargo procedures
Part 122, subpart L
Transshipment of
18.3
Vehicles
123.3, 123.4
Vessels
Discrepancies, and corrections
4.12
In trade with noncontiguous territory
4.84
Inward foreign—Forms, contents
4.7
Overage of cargo—Form
4.12, 4.62
Proceeding foreign via domestic ports
4.87
Shortage of cargo—Form
4.12, 4.62
Vessels and vehicles, examination of
162.3
MANIPULATION IN WAREHOUSE OR ELSEWHERE
19.11
MANIPULATION OUTSIDE BONDED WAREHOUSE, EXPENSES OF
24.17(a)(8)
MARIHUANA AND NARCOTIC DRUGS
Permit to unlade, penalty
162.66
Unmanifested, penalty
162.65
When permissible on vessels, aircraft and individuals
162.62
MARINE PRODUCTS, CONDITIONALLY FREE
10.78
MARITIME ADMINISTRATION, VESSELS OF, EXEMPT FROM PENALTIES
162.22(e)
MARKING
Bolting cloth for milling purposes
10.58
Containers, foreign substantial, for reimportation
10.7
Corn or maize, seed
10.57
Country of origin
Part 134
Additional duties
134.2
Articles repacked or manipulated
134.26, 134.34
Articles subject to marking
Part 134, subpart B
Certificate of marking
134.52
Compensation for services of Customs officers and employees
134.55
Containers and holders, marking of
Part 134, subpart C
Definition of
134.1(b)
Delivery withheld
134.3
Exceptions to marking
Part 134, subpart D
Filing of false certificate, penalty
134.52(d)
Intentional alterations, penalty
134.4
Liquidated damages
134.54
Notice to mark or redeliver, form
134.51(a)
Requirements and methods of marking
Part 134, subpart E
Specific articles, method of marking
134.43
Ultimate purchaser, defined
134.1(d)
Watches, clocks, and timing apparatus
11.9, 134.43(b)
Customs officers, compensation of
24.17, 134.55
Disposition of articles not properly marked
134.51-134.54
Drums of foreign manufacture exported
10.7
Duties
159.46
Furs, other skins or seal skins
12.61-12.63
Gold or silver articles, false, penalty
11.13
Labeling
11.9, 11.12, 11.12a, 11.12b, 11.13
Liquor packages, penalty
12.38
Liquors in casks and similar containers
11.6
Milk and cream containers
12.7
Packages containing merchandise produced by convict labor, penalty
12.45
Potatoes, seed
10.57
Vehicles and vessels
112.27
Viruses, serums, and toxins, containers of
12.18, 12.22
MARKING OF LICENSED VEHICLES AND LIGHTERS, CARTAGE
112.27
MARKING OF PACKAGES SHIPPED BY MAIL
145.11
MASTER CREW MEMBER LIST AND MASTER NON-CREW MEMBER LIST REQUIREMENT FOR COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT ARRIVING IN, CONTINUING WITHIN, AND OVERFLYING THE UNITED STATES
122.49c
MASTER RECORDS AND METAL MATRICES
10.90
MASTER'S DECLARATION—Repairs and equipment obtained abroad
4.14
MASTER'S OATH, CLEARANCE OF VESSEL ON—Form
4.63
MATCHES, WHITE PHOSPHORUS—Importation prohibited
12.34
MEASUREMENT
Cotton
Part 151, subpart F
Petroleum products
Part 151, subpart C
Sugar, syrups, and molasses (See also Sugar, sirups, and molasses)
Part 151, subpart B
Wool and hair
Part 151, subpart E
MEASURING WAREHOUSED GOODS FOR EXPORTATION OR TRANSPORTATION
144.37(e)
MEAT AND MEAT-FOOD PRODUCTS
Entry procedure
12.8, 12.9
Exportation of, inspection by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, U.S.D.A.
4.61, 4.72
MEDICINAL PREPARATIONS, STAMPING
11.1
MELTING, METAL ARTICLES TO BE USED IN REMANUFACTURE BY
54.5, 54.6
MERCHANDISE
Abandoned, forfeited, or unclaimed goods subject to internal-revenue tax, disposition of
127.28(e), (f), (g)
Abandoned or destroyed
Application to abandon, form
Part 158, subpart D
Duty allowance
Part 158, subpart D
Appraisement entries
Part 143, subpart B
Appraisement to be made
152.101
Articles not specified on invoice
152.3
Baggage, not for personal use, in
148.23(c)
Bearing trademarks or trade names
Part 133, subpart C
Bonded
Carrier to furnish warning cards for cars, etc.
18.4
Diversion of Transportation entry to another port
18.5
Immediate transportation without appraisement
18.11, 18.12
Marking required for vehicles or lighters to carry
112.27
Receipt by Carrier
18.2
Sealing of conveyances, etc.
18.4
Seals, removal
18.3(d)
Shortages
18.6
Splitting shipments at intermediate or destination port
18.5(d)
Transportation of
18.1-18.7, Part 112, subpart B
Transportation of, nonbonded goods with
18.4(c)
Transshipment
18.3
Cartage and lighterage
Part 125
Cartmen's liability
125.41, 125.42
Coastwise transportation
4.80b
Commingling of—Segregation
152.13
Condemned perishable—Allowance in duty
158.14
Contiguous country, from
123.3-123.8
Contrary to law, imported
162.21, 162.22
Copyrighted
Part 133, subpart E
Damaged or Defective—Duty allowance
Part 158, subpart B
Designation of packages for examination
151.1-151.3
Detention of
151.16
Discrepancy between shipment and invoice, liquidation
152.3
Dutiable, in baggage examined in foreign country
148.22
Duty paid, in public stores or bonded warehouses—Undelivered, disposition
127.14
Entry for manipulation
19.11
Entry; line release processing
Part 142, subpart D
Entry of
From vessel sunk for 2 years
4.41(c)
Unclaimed, before sale
127.14
Entry, when and when not required
141.4, 10.151-10.153, 148.62(b), 148.85-148.88
Examination of, prior to entry, inspection charges
151.5
Excessive moisture and other impurities—Duty allowance
158.13
Exportation of, final port, in transit
123.28
Exported contrary to law, seizure
161.2(b)
Exported for
Alterations or repairs
10.8
Exhibition, return of
10.66
Scientific or educational purposes, return
10.67
Exported from Customs custody
158.45
Fee, ad valorem merchandise
24.23
Foreign, destined to foreign countries via U.S. port
4.88, 4.89
Foreign military personnel and their immediate families
148.90
Foreign representative, free entry privilege
Part 148, subpart I
Forfeited
Remission or mitigation of fine, penalty, and forfeiture—Petitions
162.32, Part 171, subparts B-D
Sold, petition for restoration of proceeds
Part 171, subpart E
Forfeiture
Failure to declare in baggage, penalty
148.18
Prohibited importation of immoral articles
12.40-12.41
Sale
162.45-162.48
General order procedure
4.37
Government importations
141.102(d), 10.100-10.104, 145.37
Immediate delivery, special permit for
Part 142, subpart C
Importation date
101.1
Imported in vessels of less than 30 net tons
4.100
Importing contrary to law
162.22
Informal entry of, information to be shown
Part 143, subpart C
Institutions, articles—Conditionally free
10.43
In transit through contiguous foreign territory
Authority for
123.21(c)
Manifest—Form, contents, and disposition
Part 123, subpart C
Procedure at port of exit
123.22(a), 123.28
Procedure at port of reentry
123.29
Sealing
123.24
Seals, in bond or in transit, breaking
123.21, 123.26, 123.29
Storage in foreign territory
123.26(b)
Train consist sheets
123.23, 123.29
Transshipment in foreign country
Part 123, subpart D, 123.52, 123.64
In transit through U.S.
Between ports of a contiguous country
Part 123, subpart D, 123.52, 123.64
To foreign countries
18.20-18.24
Laden on vehicle or vessel without special license or permit
148.67(b), 162.22
Landed, unentered, when to be sent to general order
4.37
Library of Congress, articles for
10.46, 145.37
Line release processing
Part 142, subpart D
Loss of, by cartmen—Liability
125.35, Part 125, subpart E
Loss of, in public stores
Part 158, subpart C
Mail importations
Part 145
Manipulated in warehouse
19.11, 159.21(a)
Marking country of origin, exceptions
11.9, Part 134, subparts D and E
Noncommercial importations of limited value
Part 148, subpart J
Nonimportation—Duty allowance
158.11
Not properly marked, disposition of
Part 134, subpart F
Obscene, etc.—Importation
12.40, 12.41
Omission of merchandise on invoice
152.3
Perishable
Inspection before entry or while in transit, inspection charges
151.4, 151.5
Unclaimed, sale
127.28(c)
Place of examination
151.6, 151.7, 151.8
Proceeds of sale of, disposition of
Part 127, subpart D
Produced by convict, forced, or indentured labor—Importation prohibited
12.42-12.45
Recall
141.113, 151.11
Recovered from wrecked vessel or as derelict, Disposition
4.41
Refused by consignee, when to be treated as unclaimed
141.1(f)
Reimported goods dutiable, exceptions
141.2
Rejected
Exportation of
158.45
Exportation of—Drawback
191.42
Viruses, serums, and toxins
12.20, 12.23
Release of
In warehouse, limitation on
19.6
Nonexamination packages, form
141.102(d)
From carrier or warehouse proprietor
Part 141, subpart H
When lien exists
141.112
Remaining unsold
127.29
Responsibility for, in warehouse
144.2
Restricted or prohibited importations, Burmese covered articles
12.151
Restricted or prohibited importations, exportation
18.25, 18.26
Return to Customs custody—Default on bond, liquidated damages
141.113(g), Part 113, subpart F, Part 172, subpart C
Rewarehousing
144.41, 144.42
Sale notices—Catalogs
127.24, 127.26
Sale
Abandoned or unclaimed
Part 127, subpart C
Forfeited
162.46, 162.48, 162.49
Forfeited, disposition of proceeds—Expenses
162.51
Unclaimed perishable goods
127.28(c)
Samples, taking of prior to entry
151.4, 151.5
Sealed by Customs officer
123.24, 123.33, 18.4
Search and examination
162.6
Seized
Appraisement of
162.43
By State officer—Adoption by Customs
162.21
Disposition after summary forfeitures
162.46
Disposition when inspection by other Government agency required
162.46(b)
Perishable or liable to waste or deteriorate in value—sale
162.48
Release
On payment of appraised value
162.44
Petition for
162.31, Part 171, subpart B, 171.22, Part 171, subpart D
Under bond—Petition to court
162.47(b), 162.49(b)
Subject to summary forfeiture
Release under bond
162.47, 162.49
Claim and bond to stop summary forfeiture
162.47
Treatment of
Part 162, subpart E
Proceedings by libel
162.42
Seized and forfeited
Destruction of, when
162.46, 162.50
Disposition
162.46, 162.48
Reports to U.S. attorneys—When required
162.32, 162.47(d), 162.49(a), 172.3
Sale
162.45-162.52
State laws prohibiting sale
162.46(c)(2), 162.50
Transfer to other districts for sale
162.46, 162.50
Seizure of—In passengers' baggage
148.18, 148.19
Shortages—Duty allowance
158.2-158.6
Smuggled
162.22, 148.18(a)
Special marking requirements, exceptions
11.9, Part 134, subpart D 134.42-134.44
Special permit for immediate delivery
Part 142, subpart C
State importations dutiable
141.1(e)
Summary sale
162.45 -162.48
Supplies for vessels withdrawn from warehouse
10.59
Transfer to another warehouse
144.34
Transportation of, by bonded carriers
Part 112, subpart B
Transported by pipeline
Abandonment of exportation
18.44
Applicability
18.41
Direct exportation
18.42
Indirect exportation
18.43
Pipeline transportation of bonded merchandise
18.31
Supervision of exportation
18.45
Unclaimed
Abandonment and sale
127.13, 127.14, Part 127, subparts C and D
Entry of
127.13(a), 127.2
Storage and other expenses, payment of
127.13(b)
Unclaimed or in warehouse beyond the time fixed by law, disposition
127.11, 127.14
Undeliverable by cartmen
125.36
Unentered, exportation of
158.45(a)
U.S., articles of
145.37, 141.102(d), 10.100-10.104
Unladen from vehicle or vessel without special license or permit
162.22
Valuation
152.101
Value not exceeding $5
10.153(e)
Warehouse, sent to public stores—Disposition
19.10
Warehouse withdrawal period
144.5
Warehouse withdrawals for exportation
144.37
Warehoused, liability for duties
144.2
Weighing, gauging, or measuring warehouse merchandise for exportation or transportation
144.37(e)
When duties accrue on
141.1
Withdrawal from warehouse for consumption—Form and procedure
144.38
Withdrawal from sale
127.14
Withdrawal of, by transferee
144.27, Part 144, subpart C
Withdrawn for exportation but not laden, disposition of by inspector
144.37(f)
METAL ARTICLES FOR REMANUFACTURE BY MELTING
Part 54
METAL-BEARING ORES AND METAL-BEARING MATERIALS
Part 151, subpart D
METAL MATRICES FOR SOUND RECORDS FOR EXPORT
10.90
MEXICO
Articles repaired or altered
181.64
Resident returning from—exemption
148.35(a)
Vehicles, stolen, returned from
123.82
MIDWAY ISLANDS
7.2, 7.3, 191.5
MILK AND CREAM, IMPORTATION OF—Special requirements
12.7
MISSING DOCUMENTS, BOND FOR
141.66
MISTAKE OF FACT
162.71, 162.73
MITIGATION OF FINES, PENALTIES, AND FORFEITURES—Petitions
162.31, 162.32, Part 171, subpart B
MODELS AND PATTERNS FOR INSTITUTIONS
10.43
MODELS OF WOMEN'S WEARING APPAREL—Temporary importation bond
10.31, 10.35
MODERNIZED DRAWBACK
190
Manufacturing Drawback
190, subpart B
Unused Merchandise Drawback
190, subpart C
Rejected Merchandise
190, subpart D
Completion of Drawback Claims
190, subpart E
Verification of Claims
190, subpart F
Exportation and Destruction
190, subpart G
Liquidation and Protest of Drawback Entries
190, subpart H
Waiver of Prior Notice of Intent to Export or Destroy; Accelerated Payment of Drawback
190, subpart I
Internal Revenue Tax on Flavoring Extracts and Medicinal or Toilet Preparations (Including Perfumery) Manufactured From Domestic Tax-Paid Alcohol
190, subpart J
Supplies for Certain Vessels and Aircraft
190, subpart K
Meats Cured With Imported Salt
190, subpart L
Materials for Construction and Equipment of Vessels and Aircraft Built for Foreign Account and Ownership
190, subpart M
Foreign-Built Jet Aircraft Engines Processed in the United States
190, subpart N
Merchandise Exported From Continuous CBP Custody
190, subpart O
Distilled Spirits, Wines, or Beer Which Are Unmerchantable or Do Not Conform to Sample or Specifications
190, subpart P
Substitution of Finished Petroleum Derivatives
190, subpart Q
Merchandise Transferred to a Foreign Trade Zone From Customs Territory
190, subpart R
Drawback Compliance Program
190, subpart S
MOISTURE ALLOWANCE
Ores and metals
151.55
Petroleum products
151.46
Raw sugar
151.23
MOISTURE, EXCESSIVE, DUTY ALLOWANCE
158.13
MOLASSES (See SUGAR, SIRUPS, AND MOLASSES.)(See also SUGAR, SYRUPS, AND MOLASSES)
MOROCCO FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (See, UNITED STATES-MOROCCO FREE TRADE AGREEMENT)
MOTION-PICTURE FILMS
American goods returned
10.1
Exported and returned
10.68
Theatrical effects, not
10.33
MOTOR CARRIERS, BONDED CARRIERS, AS
18.1, 112.11, 112.12(b)(4)
MOTOR VEHICLES—Safety standards
12.80
MULTIPLE ENTITIES
141.58
MULTIPLE INVOICES
141.61(f)
MUNITIONS AND ARMS, EXPORTATION OF
4.61, 4.73
MUNITIONS OF WAR, CONTROLLED IMPORTS AND EXPORTS—Seizure
161.2
N
NAFTA (See NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT)
NARCOTICS
Arrests and seizures
162.63
Controlled imports and exports, seizure of
161.2(b), 162.63
Exportation to other countries, unlawful
162.61
Forfeited, disposition of
162.63
Importation and exportation procedure
12.36
In transit through U.S.
18.21
Medical stores on vessels
4.39, 162.62
Permit to unlade—Penalty
162.66
Seized, disposition
162.63
Unmanifested—Penalties
162.65
NATIONALITY OF VESSEL, VERIFICATION OF
4.61, 4.65
NAVIGATION FEES
4.98
NEUTRALITY
Bonds, special
113.71
Observance of, by vessels
4.73
NEWSPAPERS, INFORMATION TO
10.31, 103.31
NEWSREEL FILMS EXPOSED ABROAD
10.10
NIGHT, DEFINITION
24.16
NOMINAL CONSIGNEE, BANKRUPT—REFUND OF EXCESSIVE DUTIES AND INTERNAL-REVENUE TAXES
24.36
NONCONTIGUOUS TERRITORY
Definition
4.0
Vessels in trade with
4.84, 4.90
NONIMPORTATION, WHAT CONSTITUTES—Duty allowance
158.11
NONRESIDENTS
Articles carried through U.S.
148.41
Consignee, entry of merchandise
141.17
Definition
148.2(c)
Exemptions allowed
Part 148, subparts E and F
Jewelry, sale
148.46
Vehicles, free entry
148.45
NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT
10.31(f), 24.23(c)(3), Part 102, 174.12(a)(5), 174.15(b), Part 181
NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS, Commonwealth of the
7.2, 148.101, 148.102, Part 148, subpart K
NOTICES
Advance in value
152.2
Clean yield (wool or hair) to importer
151.64, 151.71(b)
Commingling of merchandise
152.13(a)
Denial of protest
174.30
Duties due, to importer
24.11
Fines, penalties, and forfeitures, to offender
162.31(a)
Grade (wool or hair), to importer
151.76(b)
Increased duties, possible
152.2
Internal-revenue taxes due, to importer
24.11
Internal-revenue taxes, refund of
24.36
Liquidated damages incurred
172.1
Liquidated entries, to be posted
159.9, 159.10
Mail importations value over $2,000, notice to addressee
145.12(a)(4)
Motor vehicles—Safety standards
12.80(h)
Penalties
111.92
Return to customs custody—Form
141.113, 151.11
Sale of merchandise, to importer
127.24
Seizure, addressee to be notified
145.59
Seizure and intent to forfeit property
162.45
Shooks and staves—Form
10.5
Staple length (cotton), to importer
151.84
Substantial containers or holders
10.7
Test of sugar, molasses, and syrup, to importer (See also Test of sugar, molasses, and sirup, to importer)
151.31
O
OBLIGATIONS OF THE U.S.
Counterfeit, prohibited importation
12.48
OBSCENE MATTER—Importation prohibited
12.40, 12.41
OFFERS IN COMPROMISE
161.5
OFFICIALS OF FOREIGN GOVERNMENT—FREE ENTRY PRIVILEGE
Part 148, subpart I
OFFSETTING (NETTING)
163.11
OFFSPRING OF ANIMALS—FOREIGN PASTURAGE AND STRAYS
10.74
OIL OR REFUSE DISCHARGED BY VESSEL IN NAVIGABLE WATERS
4.66a, 4.66b, 4.66c
OILS
Product of American fisheries
10.78
Vegetable—Olive, palm-kernel, rapeseed, sunflower, and sesame
Denaturing
10.56
Release
10.56
OMB CONTROL NUMBERS, LISTING OF
178.2
OPIUM
Controlled substances
162.61
Unmanifested—Penalty
162.65
OMAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (See, UNITED STATES-OMAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT)(OFTA)
OPTIONAL PORTS IN INTERCOASTAL TRADE
4.86
ORAL DECLARATIONS
148.12
ORES AND CRUDE METALS
Part 151, subpart D
ORES AND METALS
Domestic substituted, for drawback
191.32
Entry of, in bond
19.17
Sampling and assaying
19.17, 151.51, 151.52
ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES
148.88
ORIGINAL EQUIPMENT—AUTOMOTIVE
10.84
ORIGIN
Country of
Part 134
Rules; CAFTA-DR
10.593-605
Rules; NAFTA
181.131
