(B) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent because it omits a material fact that the person making the statement has a duty to include in such statement; and
(ii) Contains or is accompanied by an express certification or affirmation of the truthfulness and accuracy of the contents of the statement—
Shall be subject, in addition to any other remedy that may be prescribed by law, to a civil penalty of not more than $13,946 for each such statement.
(2) Each written representation, certification, or affirmation constitutes a separate statement.
(3) A statement shall be considered made to the authority when such statement is actually made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any State or political subdivision thereof, acting for or on behalf of the authority.
(c) No proof of specific intent to defraud is required to establish liability under this section.
(d) In any case in which it is determined that more than one person is liable for making a claim or statement under this section, each such person may be held liable for a civil penalty under this section.
(e) In any case in which it is determined that more than one person is liable for making a claim under this section on which the Government has made payment (including transferred property or provided services), an assessment may be imposed against any such person or jointly and severally against any combination of such persons.
[52 FR 39498, Oct. 22, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 599, Jan. 9, 1989; 82 FR 28763, June 26, 2017; 82 FR 48762, Oct. 20, 2017; 83 FR 2046, Jan. 16, 2018; 84 FR 13115, Apr. 4, 2019; 84 FR 14608, Apr. 11, 2019; 85 FR 16546, Mar. 24, 2020; 86 FR 14245, Mar. 15, 2021; 87 FR 23108, Apr. 19, 2022; 88 FR 24906, Apr. 25, 2023; 89 FR 20107, Mar. 21, 2024]
§ 1264.103
Investigation.
(a) If an investigating official concludes that a subpoena pursuant to the authority conferred by 31 U.S.C. 3804(a) is warranted—
(1) The subpoena so issued shall notify the person to whom it is addressed of the authority under which the subpoena is issued and shall identify the records or documents sought;
(2) The subpoena may designate the person, to act on the investigating official's behalf, to receive the documents sought; and
(3) The person receiving such subpoena shall be required to tender to the investigating official or the person designated to receive the documents a certification that the documents sought have been produced, or that such documents are not available and the reasons therefor, or that such documents, suitably identified, have been withheld based upon the assertion of an identified privilege.
(b) If the investigating official concludes that an action under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act may be warranted, the investigating official shall submit a report containing the findings and conclusions of such investigation to the reviewing official.
(c) Nothing in this section shall preclude or limit the investigating official's discretion to refer allegations directly to the Department of Justice for suit under the False Claims Act or other civil relief, or to defer or postpone a report of referral to the reviewing official to avoid interference with a criminal investigation or prosecution.
(d) Nothing in this section modifies any responsibility of the investigating official to report violations of criminal law to the Attorney General.
[52 FR 39498, Oct. 22, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 599, Jan. 9, 1989]
§ 1264.104
Review by the reviewing official.
(a) If, based on the report of the investigating official under § 1264.103(b), the reviewing official determines that there is adequate evidence to believe that a person is liable under § 1264.102 of this part, the reviewing official shall transmit to the Attorney General a written notice of the reviewing official's intention to issue a complaint under § 1264.106.
(b) Such notice shall include—
(1) A statement of the reviewing official's reasons for issuing a complaint;
(2) A statement specifying the evidence that supports the allegations of liability;
(3) A description of the claims or statements upon which the allegations of liability are based;
(4) An estimate of the amount of money or the value of property, services, or other benefits requested or demanded in violation of § 1264.102 of this part;
(5) A statement of any exculpatory or mitigating circumstances that may relate to the claims or statements known by the reviewing official or the investigating official; and
(6) A statement that there is a reasonable prospect of collecting an appropriate amount of penalties and assessments. Such a statement may be based upon information then known or an absence of any information indicating that the person may be unable to pay such an amount.
§ 1264.105
Prerequisites for issuing a complaint.
(a) The reviewing official may issue a complaint under § 1264.106 only if—
(1) The Department of Justice approves the issuance of a complaint in a written statement described in 31 U.S.C. 3803(b)(1); and
(2) In the case of allegations of liability under § 1264.102(a) with respect to a claim, the reviewing official determines that, with respect to such claim or a group of related claims submitted at the same time such claim is submitted (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section), the amount of money or the value of property or services demanded or requested in violation of § 1264.102(a) does not exceed $150,000.
(b) For the purposes of this section, a related group of claims submitted at the same time shall include only those claims arising from the same transaction (e.g., grant, loan, application, or contract) that are submitted simultaneously as part of a single request, demand, or submission.
(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the reviewing official's authority to join in a single complaint against a person claims that are unrelated or were not submitted simultaneously, regardless of the amount of money or the value of property or services demanded or requested.
§ 1264.106
Complaint.
(a) On or after the date the Department of Justice approves the issuance of a complaint in accordance with 31
U.S.C. 3803(b)(1), the reviewing official may serve a complaint on the defendant, as provided in § 1264.107.
(b) The complaint shall state—
(1) The allegations of liability against the defendant, including the statutory basis for liability, an identification of the claims or statements that are the basis for the alleged liability, and the reasons why liability allegedly arises from such claims or statements;
(2) The maximum amount of penalties and assessments for which the defendant may be held liable;
(3) Instructions for filing an answer to request a hearing, including a specific statement of the defendant's right to request a hearing by filing an answer and to be represented by a representative; and
(4) That failure to file an answer within 30 days of service of the complaint will result in the imposition of the maximum amount of penalties and assessments without right to appeal as provided in § 1264.109.
(c) At the same time the defendant is served with the complaint, he or she shall also be served with a—
(1) Notice to Consent to the Chairperson of the NASA Board of Contract Appeals (BCA), or Designee, as presiding officer;
(2) Copy of this part 1264 of 14 CFR.
[52 FR 39498, Oct. 22, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 599, Jan. 9, 1989]
§ 1264.107
Service of complaint.
(a) Service of a complaint must be made by certified or registered mail or by delivery in any manner authorized by Rule 4(d) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
(b) Proof of service, stating the name and address of the person on whom the complaint was served, and the manner and date of service, may be made by—
(1) Affidavit of the individual servicing the complaint by delivery;
(2) A United States Postal Service return receipt card acknowledging receipt; or
(3) Written acknowledgment of receipt by the defendant or his/her representative.
[52 FR 39498, Oct. 22, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 600, Jan. 9, 1989]
§ 1264.108
Answer.
(a) The defendant may request a hearing by filing an answer with the reviewing official within 30 days of service of the complaint. An answer shall be deemed to be a request for hearing.
(b) In the answer, the defendant—
(1) Shall admit or deny each of the allegations of liability made in the complaint;
(2) Shall state any defense on which the defendant intends to rely;
(3) May state any reasons why the defendant contends that the penalties and assessments should be less than the statutory maximum; and
(4) Shall state the name, address, and telephone number of the person authorized by the defendant to act as defendant's representative, if any.
(c) If the defendant is unable to file an answer meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section within the time provided, the defendant may, before the expiration of 30 days from service of the complaint, file with the reviewing official a general answer denying liability and requesting a hearing, and a request for an extension of time within which to file an answer meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. The reviewing official, as provided in § 1264.110, shall file promptly with the presiding officer the complaint, the general answer denying liability, and the request for an extension of time. For good cause shown, the presiding officer may grant the defendant up to 30 additional days within which to file an answer meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
[52 FR 39498, Oct. 22, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 600, Jan. 9, 1989]
§ 1264.109
Default upon failure to file an answer.
(a) If the defendant does not file an answer within the time prescribed in § 1264.108(a), the reviewing official may refer the complaint to the presiding officer.
(b) Upon the referral of the complaint, the presiding officer shall promptly serve on defendant, in the manner prescribed in § 1264.107, a notice
that an initial decision will be issued under this section.
(c) If the defendant fails to answer, the presiding officer shall assume the facts alleged in the complaint to be true and, if such facts establish liability under § 1264.102, the presiding officer shall issue an initial decision imposing the maximum amount of penalties and assessments allowed under the statute.
(d) Except as otherwise provided in this section, by failing to file a timely answer, the defendant waives any right to further review of the penalties and assessments imposed under paragraph (c) of this section, and the initial decision shall become final and binding upon the parties 30 days after it is issued.
(e) If, before such an initial decision becomes final, the defendant files a motion with the presiding officer seeking to reopen on the grounds that extraordinary circumstances prevented the defendant from filing an answer, the initial decision shall be stayed pending the presiding officer's decision on the motion.
(f) If, on such motion, the defendant can demonstrate extraordinary circumstances excusing the failure to file a timely answer, the presiding officer shall withdraw the initial decision under paragraph (c) of this section, if such a decision has been issued, and shall grant the defendant an opportunity to answer the complaint.
(g) A decision of the presiding officer denying a defendant's motion under paragraph (e) of this section is not subject to reconsideration under § 1264.137.
(h) The defendant may appeal to the authority head the decision denying a motion to reopen by filing a notice of appeal with the authority head within 15 days after the presiding officer denies the motion. The timely filing of a notice of appeal shall stay the initial decision until the authority head decides the issue.
(i) If the defendant files a timely notice of appeal with the authority head, the presiding officer shall forward the record of the proceeding to the authority head.
(j) The authority head shall decide expeditiously whether extraordinary circumstances excuse the defendant's failure to file a timely answer based solely on the record before the presiding officer.
(k) If the authority head decides that extraordinary circumstances excused the defendant's failure to file a timely answer, the authority head shall remand the case to the presiding officer with instructions to grant the defendant an opportunity to answer.
(l) If the authority head decides that the defendant's failure to file a timely answer is not excused, the authority head shall reinstate the initial decision of the presiding officer, which shall become final and binding upon the parties 30 days after the authority head issues such decision.
[52 FR 39498, Oct. 22, 1987, as amended at 80 FR 42029, July 16, 2015]
§ 1264.110
Referral of complaint and answer to the presiding officer.
Upon receipt of an answer, the reviewing official shall file the complaint and answer with the presiding officer, and include the name and address of the attorney who will represent the authority before the presiding officer.
§ 1264.111
Notice of hearing.
(a) When the presiding officer receives the complaint and answer, the presiding officer shall promptly serve a notice of hearing upon the defendant in the manner prescribed by § 1264.107. At the same time, the presiding officer shall send a copy of such notice to the representative of the authority.
(b) Such notice shall include—
(1) The tentative time and place, and the nature of the hearing;
(2) The legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be held;
(3) The matters of fact and law asserted;
(4) A description of the procedures for the conduct of the hearing;
(5) The name, address, and telephone number of the representative of the authority and of the defendant;
(6) An opportunity for a settlement conference or proposals of adjustment through alternative dispute resolutions, if not already explored; and
(7) Such other matters as the presiding officer deems appropriate.
[52 FR 39498, Oct. 22, 1987, as amended at 80 FR 42029, July 16, 2015]
§ 1264.112
Parties to the hearing.
(a) The parties to the hearing shall be the defendant and the authority.
(b) Pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3730(c)(5), a private plaintiff under the False Claims Act, as amended, may participate in these proceedings to the extent authorized by the provisions of that Act. (See section 3 of the False Claims Amendments Act of 1986, Pub. L. 99-562, October 27, 1986.)
§ 1264.113
Separation of functions.
(a) The investigating official, the reviewing official, and any employee or agent of the authority who takes part in investigating, preparing, or presenting a particular case may not, in such case or a factually related case—
(1) Participate in the hearing as the presiding officer;
(2) Participate or advise in the initial decision or the review of the initial decision by the authority head, except as a witness or as the authority representative in the administrative or judicial proceedings; or
(3) Make the collection of penalties and assessments under 31 U.S.C. 3806.
(b) The presiding officer shall not be responsible to, or subject to the supervision or direction of, the investigating official or the reviewing official.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the representative for the Government must be a member of the legal staff of the authority. Nothing in this paragraph is intended to prevent assistance to the Government representative by attorneys in the NASA organization or other governmental entities.
§ 1264.114
Ex parte
contacts.
No party or person (except employees of the presiding officer's office) shall communicate in any way with the presiding officer on any matter at issue in a case, unless on notice and opportunity for all parties to participate. This provision does not prohibit a person or party from inquiring about the status of a case or asking routine questions concerning administrative functions or procedures.
[54 FR 600, Jan. 9, 1989]
§ 1264.115
Disqualification of reviewing official or presiding officer.
(a) A reviewing official or presiding officer in a particular case may disqualify himself or herself at any time.
(b) A party may file with the presiding officer a motion for disqualification of a reviewing official or a presiding officer. Such motion shall be accompanied by an affidavit alleging personal bias or other reason for disqualification.
(c) Such motion and affidavit shall be filed promptly upon the party's discovery of reasons for disqualification, or such objections shall be deemed waived.
(d) Such affidavit shall state specific facts that support the party's belief that personal bias or other reason for disqualification exists and the time and circumstances of the party's discovery of such facts. It shall be accompanied by a certificate of the representative of record that it is made in good faith.
(e) Upon the filing of such a motion and affidavit, the presiding officer shall proceed no further in the case until the matter of disqualification is resolved in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.
(f)(1) If the presiding officer determines that a reviewing official is disqualified, the presiding officer shall dismiss the complaint without prejudice.
(2) If the presiding officer disqualifies himself or herself, the case shall be reassigned promptly to another presiding officer.
(3) If the presiding officer denies a motion to disqualify, the authority head may determine the matter only as part of his or her review of the initial decision upon appeal, if any.
§ 1264.116
Rights of parties.
Except as otherwise limited by this part, all parties may—
(a) Be accompanied, represented, and advised by a representative;
(b) Participate in any conference held by the presiding officer;
(c) Conduct discovery;
(d) Agree to stipulations of fact or law, which shall be made part of the record;
(e) Present evidence relevant to the issues at the hearing;
(f) Present and cross-examine witnesses;
(g) Present oral arguments at the hearing as permitted by the presiding officer; and
(h) Submit written briefs and proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law after the hearing.
[52 FR 39498, Oct. 22, 1987, as amended at 80 FR 42029, July 16, 2015]
§ 1264.117
Authority of the presiding officer.
(a) The presiding officer shall conduct a fair and impartial hearing, avoid delay, maintain order, and assure that a record of the proceeding is made.
(b) The presiding officer has the authority to—
(1) Set and change the date, time, and place of the hearing upon reasonable notice to the parties;
(2) Continue or recess the hearing in whole or in part for a reasonable period of time;
(3) Hold conferences to identify or simplify the issues, or to consider other matters, including settlement conferences or other alternative dispute resolution, that may aid in the fair and expeditious disposition of the proceeding;
(4) Administer oaths and affirmations;
(5) Issue subpoenas, requiring the attendance of witnesses and the production of documents at depositions or at hearings, which the presiding officer considers relevant and material;
(6) Rule on motions and other procedural matters;
(7) Regulate the scope and timing of discovery;
(8) Regulate the course of the hearing and the conduct of representatives and parties;
(9) Examine witnesses;
(10) Receive, rule on, exclude, or limit evidence;
(11) Upon motion of a party, take official notice of facts;
(12) Upon motion of a party, decide cases, in whole or in part, by summary judgment where there is no genuine issue as to any material fact;
(13) Conduct any conference, argument, or hearing on motions in person or by telephone; and
(14) Exercise such other authority as is necessary to carry out the responsibilities of the presiding officer under this part.
(c) The presiding officer does not have the authority to find Federal statutes or regulations invalid.
[52 FR 39498, Oct. 22, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 600, Jan. 9, 1989]
§ 1264.118
Prehearing conferences.
(a) The presiding officer may schedule prehearing conferences as appropriate.
(b) Upon the motion of any party, the presiding officer shall schedule at least one prehearing conference at a reasonable time in advance of the hearing.
(c) The presiding officer may use prehearing conferences to discuss the following:
(1) Simplification of the issues;
(2) The necessity or desirability of amendments to the pleadings, including the need for a more definite statement;
(3) Stipulations and admissions of fact or as to the contents and authenticity of documents;
(4) Whether the parties can agree to submission of the case on a stipulated record;
(5) Whether a party chooses to waive appearance at an oral hearing and to submit only documentary evidence (subject to the objections of other parties) and written arguments;
(6) Limitation of the number of witnesses;
(7) Scheduling dates for the exchange of witness lists and of proposed exhibits;
(8) Discovery;
(9) The time and place for the hearing; and
(10) Such other matters, including settlement, as may tend to expedite the fair and just disposition of the proceedings.
(d) The presiding officer may issue an order containing all matters agreed upon by the parties or ordered by the
presiding officer at a prehearing conference.
[52 FR 39498, Oct. 22, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 600, Jan. 9, 1989]
§ 1264.119
Disclosure of documents.
(a) Upon written request to the reviewing official, the defendant may review any relevant and material documents, transcripts, records, and other materials that relate to the allegations set out in the complaint and upon which the findings and conclusions of the investigating official under § 1264.103(b) are based unless such documents are subject to a privilege under Federal law. Upon payment of a reasonable fee for duplication, the defendant may obtain copies of such documents.
(b) Upon written request to the reviewing official, the defendant also may obtain a copy of all exculpatory information in the possession of the reviewing official or investigating official relating to the allegations in the complaint, even if it is contained in a document that would otherwise be privileged. If the document would otherwise be privileged, only that portion containing exculpatory information must be disclosed.
(c) The notice sent to the Attorney General from the reviewing official as described in § 1264.104 is not discoverable under any circumstances.
(d) The defendant may file a motion to compel disclosure of the documents subject to the provisions of this section. Such a motion may only be filed with the presiding officer following the filing of an answer pursuant to § 1264.108.
§ 1264.120
Discovery.
(a) The following types of discovery are authorized:
(1) Requests for production of documents for inspection and copying;
(2) Requests for admissions of the authenticity of any relevant document or of the truth of any relevant fact;
(3) Written interrogatories; and
(4) Depositions.
(b) For the purpose of this section and §§ 1264.121 and 1264.122, the term
documents
includes information, documents, reports, answers, records, accounts, papers, and other data and documentary evidence which the presiding officer considers relevant and material to the hearing. Nothing contained herein shall be interpreted to require the creation of a document.
(c) Unless mutually agreed to by the parties, discovery is available only as ordered by the presiding officer. The presiding officer shall regulate the timing of discovery.
(d)
Motions for discovery.
(1) A party seeking discovery may file a motion with the presiding officer. Such a motion shall be accompanied by a copy of the discovery request or, in the case of depositions, a summary of the scope of the proposed deposition.
(2) Within 10 days of service, a party may file an opposition to the motion and/or a motion for protective order as provided in § 1264.123.
(3) The presiding officer may grant a motion for discovery only if he/she finds that the discovery sought—
(i) Is necessary for the expeditious, fair, and reasonable consideration of the issues;
(ii) Is not unduly costly or burdensome;
(iii) Will not unduly delay the proceeding; and
(iv) Does not seek privileged information.
(4) The burden of showing that discovery should be allowed is on the party seeking discovery.
(5) The presiding officer may grant discovery subject to a protective order under § 1264.123.
(e)
Depositions.
(1) If a motion for deposition is granted, the presiding officer shall issue a subpoena for the deponent, which may require the deponent to produce documents. The subpoena shall specify the time and place at which the deposition will be held.
(2) The party seeking to depose shall serve the subpoena in the manner prescribed in § 1264.107.
(3) The deponent may file with the presiding officer a motion to quash the subpoena or a motion for a protective order within 10 days of service.
(4) The party seeking to depose shall provide for the taking of a verbatim transcript of the deposition, which it shall make available to all other parties for inspection and copying.
(f) Each party shall bear its own costs of discovery.
§ 1264.121
Exchange of witness lists, statements, and exhibits.
(a) At least 15 days before the hearing or at such other time as may be ordered by the presiding officer, the parties shall exchange witness lists, copies of prior statements of proposed witnesses, and copies of proposed hearing exhibits, including copies of any written statements that the party intends to offer in lieu of live testimony in accordance with paragraph (b) of § 1264.132. At the time the above documents are exchanged, any party that intends to rely on the transcript of deposition testimony in lieu of live testimony at the hearing, if permitted by the presiding officer, shall provide each party with a copy of the specific pages of the transcript it intends to introduce into evidence.
(b) If a party objects, the presiding officer shall not admit into evidence the testimony of any witness whose name does not appear on the witness list or any exhibit not provided to the opposing party, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, unless the presiding officer finds goods cause for the failure or that there is no prejudice to the objecting party.
(c) Unless another party objects within the time set by the presiding officer, documents exchanged in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section shall be deemed to be authentic for the purpose of admissibility at the hearing.
§ 1264.122
Subpoena for attendance at hearing.
(a) A party wishing the appearance and testimony of any individual at the hearing may request that the presiding officer issue a subpoena.
(b) A subpoena requiring the attendance and testimony of an individual may also require the individual to produce documents at the hearing.
(c) A party seeking a subpoena shall file a written request therefor not less than 15 days before the date fixed for the hearing unless otherwise allowed by the presiding officer for good cause shown. Such request shall specify any documents to be produced and shall designate the witnesses and describe the address and location thereof with sufficient particularity to permit such witnesses to be found.
(d) The subpoena shall specify the time and place at which the witness is to appear and any documents the witness is to produce.
(e) The party seeking the subpoena shall serve it in the manner prescribed in § 1264.107. A subpoena on a party or upon an individual under the control of a party may be served by first class mail.
(f) A party or the individual to whom the subpoena is directed may file with the presiding officer a motion to quash the subpoena within 10 days after service or on or before the time specified in the subpoena for compliance if it is less than 10 days after service.
§ 1264.123
Protective order.
(a) A party or a prospective witness or deponent may file a motion for a protective order with respect to discovery sought by an opposing party or with respect to the hearing, seeking to limit the availability or disclosure of evidence.
(b) In issuing a protective order, the presiding officer may make any order which justice requires to protect a party or person from annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden or expense, including one or more of the following:
(1) That the discovery not be had;
(2) That the discovery may be had only on specified terms and conditions, including a designation of the time or place;
(3) That the discovery may be had only through a method of discovery other than that requested;
(4) That certain matters not be inquired into, or that the scope of discovery be limited to certain matters;
(5) That discovery be conducted with no one present except persons designated by the presiding officer;
(6) That the contents of discovery or evidence be sealed;
(7) That a deposition after being sealed be opened only by order of the presiding officer;
(8) That a trade secret or other confidential research, development, commercial information, or facts pertaining to any criminal investigation,
proceeding, or other administrative investigation not be disclosed or be disclosed only in a designated way; or
(9) That the parties simultaneously file specified documents or information enclosed in sealed envelopes to be opened as directed by the presiding officer.
§ 1264.124
Fees.
The party requesting a subpoena shall pay the cost of the fees and mileage of any witness subpoenaed in the amounts that would be payable to a witness in a proceeding in United States District Court. A check for witness fees and mileage shall accompany the subpoena when served, except that when a subpoena is issued on behalf of the authority, a check for witness fees and mileage need not accompany the subpoena.
[52 FR 39498, Oct. 22, 1987, as amended at 80 FR 42029, July 16, 2015]
§ 1264.125
Form, filing, and service of papers.
(a)
Form.
(1) Documents filed with the presiding officer shall include an original and two copies.
(2) Every pleading and paper filed in the proceeding shall contain a caption setting forth the title of the action, the case number assigned by the presiding officer, and a designation of the paper (e.g., motion to quash subpoena).
(3) Every pleading and paper shall be signed by, and shall contain the address and telephone number of the party or the person on whose behalf the paper was filed, or his or her representative.
(4) Papers are considered filed when they are mailed. Date of mailing may be established by a certificate from the party or its representative or by proof that the document was sent by certified or registered mail.
(b)
Service.
A party filing a document with the presiding officer shall, at the time of filing, serve a copy of such document on every other party. Service upon any party of any document other than those required to be served as prescribed in § 1264.107 shall be made by delivering a copy or by placing a copy of the document in the U.S. mail, postage prepaid, and addressed to the party's last known address. When a party is represented by a representative, service shall be made upon such representative.
(c)
Proof of service.
A certificate of the individual serving the document by personal delivery or by mail, setting forth the manner of service, shall be proof of service.
[52 FR 39498, Oct. 22, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 600, Jan. 9, 1989]
§ 1264.126
Computation of time.
(a) In computing any period of time under this part or in an order issued thereunder, the time begins with the day following the act, event, or default, and includes the last day of the period, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday observed by the Federal government, in which event it includes the next business day.
(b) When the period of time allowed is less than 7 days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays observed by the Federal government shall be excluded from the computation.
(c) Where a document has been served or issued by placing it in the mail, an additional 5 days will be added to the time permitted for any response.
[52 FR 39498, Oct. 22, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 600, Jan. 9, 1989]
§ 1264.127
Motions.
(a) Any application to the presiding officer for an order or ruling shall be by motion. Motions shall state the relief sought, the authority relied upon, and the facts alleged, and shall be filed with the presiding officer and served on all other parties.
(b) Except for motions made during a prehearing conference or at the hearing, all motions shall be in writing. The presiding officer may require that oral motions be reduced to writing.
(c) Within 15 days after a written motion is served, or such other time as may be fixed by the presiding officer, any party may file a response to such motion.
(d) The presiding officer may not grant a written motion before the time for filing responses thereto has expired, except upon consent of the parties or following a hearing on the motion, but may overrule or deny such motion without awaiting a response.
(e) The presiding officer shall make a reasonable effort to dispose of all outstanding motions prior to the beginning of the hearing.
§ 1264.128
Sanctions.
(a) The presiding officer may sanction a person, including any party or representative for—
(1) Failing to comply with an order, rule, or procedure governing the proceeding;
(2) Failing to prosecute or defend an action; or
(3) Engaging in other misconduct that interferes with the speedy, orderly, or fair conduct of the hearing.
(b) Any such sanction, including but not limited to those listed in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section, shall reasonably relate to the severity and nature of the failure or misconduct.
(c) When a party fails to comply with an order, including an order for taking a deposition, the production of evidence within the party's control, or a request for admission, the presiding officer may—
(1) Draw an inference in favor of the requesting party with regard to the information sought;
(2) In the case of requests for admission, deem each matter of which an admission is requested to be admitted;
(3) Prohibit the party failing to comply with such order from introducing evidence concerning, or otherwise relying upon testimony relating to, the information sought; and
(4) Strike any part of the pleadings or other submissions of the party failing to comply with such request.
(d) If a party fails to prosecute or defend an action under this part commenced by service of a notice of hearing, the presiding officer may dismiss the action or may issue an initial decision imposing penalties and assessments.
(e) The presiding officer may refuse to consider any motion, request, response, brief, or other document which is not filed in a timely fashion.
§ 1264.129
The hearing and burden of proof.
(a) The presiding officer shall conduct a hearing on the record in order to determine whether the defendant is liable for a civil penalty or assessment under § 1264.102 and, if so, the appropriate amount of any such civil penalty or assessment considering any aggravating or mitigating factors.
(b) The authority shall prove defendant's liability and any aggravating factors by a preponderance of the evidence.
(c) The defendant shall prove any affirmative defenses and any mitigating factors by a preponderance of the evidence.
(d) The hearing shall be open to the public unless otherwise ordered by the presiding officer for good cause shown.
§ 1264.130
Determining the amount of penalties and assessments.
(a) In determining an appropriate amount of civil penalties and assessments, the presiding officer, and the authority head upon appeal, should evaluate any circumstances that mitigate or aggravate the violation and should articulate in their opinions the reasons that support the penalties and assessments they impose. Because of the intangible costs of fraud, the expense of investigating such conduct, and the need to deter others who might be similarly tempted, ordinarily double damages and a significant civil penalty should be imposed.
(b) Although not exhaustive, the following factors are among those that may influence the presiding officer and the authority head in determining the amount of penalties and assessments to impose with respect to the misconduct (i.e., the false, fictitious, or fraudulent claims or statements) charged in the complaint:
(1) The number of false, fictitious, or fraudulent claims or statements;
(2) The time period over which such claims or statements were made;
(3) The degree of the defendant's culpability with respect to the misconduct;
(4) The amount of money or the value of the property, services, or benefit falsely claimed;
(5) The value of the Government's actual loss as a result of the misconduct, including foreseeable consequential damages and the costs of investigation;
(6) The relationship of the amount imposed as civil penalties to the amount of the Government's loss;
(7) The potential or actual impact of the misconduct upon national defense, public health or safety, or public confidence in the management of Government programs and operations, including particularly the impact on the intended beneficiaries of such programs;
(8) Whether the defendant has engaged in a pattern of the same or similar misconduct;
(9) Whether the defendant attempted to conceal the misconduct;
(10) The degree to which the defendant has involved others in the misconduct or in concealing it;
(11) Where the misconduct of employees or agents is imputed to the defendant, the extent to which the defendant's practices fostered or attempted to preclude such misconduct;
(12) Whether the defendant cooperated in or obstructed an investigation of the misconduct;
(13) Whether the defendant assisted in identifying and prosecuting other wrongdoers;
(14) The complexity of the program or transaction, and the degree of the defendant's sophistication with respect to it, including the extent of the defendant's prior participation in the program or in similar transactions;
(15) Whether the defendant has been found, in any criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding to have engaged in similar misconduct or to have dealt dishonestly with the Government of the United States or of a State, directly or indirectly; and
(16) The need to deter the defendant and others from engaging in the same or similar misconduct.
(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the presiding officer or the authority head from considering any other factors that in any given case may mitigate or aggravate the offense for which penalties and assessments are imposed.
§ 1264.131
Location of hearing.
(a) The hearing may be held—
(1) In any judicial district of the United States in which the defendant resides or transacts business;
(2) In any judicial district of the United States in which the claim or statement in issue was made; or
(3) In such other place as may be agreed upon by the defendant and the presiding officer.
(b) Each party shall have the opportunity to present argument with respect to the location of the hearing.
(c) The hearing shall be held at the place and at the time ordered by the presiding officer.
§ 1264.132
Witnesses.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, testimony at the hearing shall be given orally by witnesses under oath or affirmation.
(b) At the discretion of the presiding officer, testimony may be admitted in the form of a written statement or deposition. Any such written statement must be provided to all other parties along with the last known address of such witness, in a manner which allows sufficient time for other parties to subpoena such witness for cross-examination at the hearing. Prior written statements of witnesses proposed to testify at the hearing and deposition transcripts shall be exchanged as provided in § 1264.121(a).
(c) The presiding officer shall exercise reasonable control over the mode and order of interrogating witnesses and presenting evidence so as to make the interrogation and presentation effective for the ascertainment of the truth, avoid needless consumption of time, and protect witnesses from harassment or undue embarrassment.
(d) The presiding officer shall permit the parties to conduct such cross-examination as may be required for a full and true disclosure of the facts.
(e) At the discretion of the presiding officer, a witness may be cross-examined on matters relevant to the proceeding without regard to the scope of his or her direct examination. To the extent permitted by the presiding officer, cross-examination on matters outside the scope of direct examination shall be conducted in the manner of direct examination and may proceed by leading questions only if the witness is a hostile witness, an adverse party, or a witness identified with an adverse party.
(f) Upon motion of any party, the presiding officer shall order witnesses excluded so that they cannot hear the testimony of other witnesses. This rule does not authorize exclusion of—
(1) A party who is an individual;
(2) In the case of a party that is not an individual, an officer or employee of the party appearing for the entity pro se or designated by the party's representative; or
(3) An individual whose presence is shown by a party to be essential to the presentation of its case, including an individual employed by the Government engaged in assisting the representative for the Government.
[52 FR 39498, Oct. 22, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 600, Jan. 9, 1989]
§ 1264.133
Evidence.
(a) The presiding officer shall determine the admissibility of evidence.
(b) Except as provided herein, the presiding officer shall not be bound by the Federal Rules of Evidence. However, the presiding officer may apply the Federal Rules of Evidence where appropriate, e.g., to exclude unreliable evidence.
(c) The presiding officer shall exclude irrelevant and immaterial evidence.
(d) Although relevant, evidence may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice, confusion of the issues, or by considerations of undue delay or needless presentation of cumulative evidence.
(e) Although relevant, evidence may be excluded if it is privileged under Federal law.
(f) Evidence concerning offers of compromise or settlement shall be inadmissible to the extent provided in Rule 408 of the Federal Rules of Evidence.
(g) The presiding officer shall permit the parties to introduce rebuttal witnesses and evidence.
(h) All documents and other evidence offered or taken for the record shall be open to examination by all parties, unless otherwise ordered by the presiding officer pursuant to § 1264.123.
§ 1264.134
The record.
(a) The hearing will be recorded and transcribed. Transcripts may be obtained following the hearing from the presiding officer at a cost not to exceed the actual cost of duplication.
(b) The transcript of testimony, exhibits, and other evidence admitted at the hearing, and all papers and requests filed in the proceeding constitute the record for the decision by the presiding officer and the authority head.
(c) The record may be inspected and copied (upon payment of a reasonable fee) by anyone, unless otherwise ordered by the presiding officer pursuant to § 1264.123.
§ 1264.135
Post-hearing briefs.
The presiding officer may require the parties to file post-hearing briefs. In any event, upon approval of the presiding officer, any party may file a post-hearing brief. The presiding officer shall fix the time for filing such briefs, not to exceed 60 days from the date the parties receive the transcript of the hearing or, if applicable, the stipulated record. Such briefs may be accompanied by proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law. The presiding officer may permit the parties to file reply briefs, and may grant an extension of the 60-day time period or other time for good cause shown.
§ 1264.136
Initial decision.
(a) The presiding officer shall issue an initial decision based solely on the record, which shall contain findings of fact, conclusions of law, and the amount of any penalties and assessments imposed.
(b) The findings of fact shall include a finding on each of the following issues:
(1) Whether the claims or statements identified in the complaint, or any portions thereof, violate § 1264.102;
(2) If the person is liable for penalties or assessments, the appropriate amount of any such penalties or assessments considering any mitigating or aggravating factors found in the case, such as those described in § 1264.130.
(c) The presiding officer shall promptly serve the initial decision on all parties within 90 days after the time for submission of post-hearing briefs and reply briefs (if permitted) has expired or upon notification that the record is now closed. The presiding
officer shall at the same time serve all parties with a statement describing the right of any defendant determined to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment to file a motion for reconsideration with the presiding officer or a notice of appeal with the authority head. If the presiding officer fails to meet the deadline contained in this paragraph, he or she shall notify the parties of the reason for the delay and shall set a new deadline.
(d) Unless the initial decision of the presiding officer is timely appealed to the authority head, or a motion for reconsideration of the initial decision is timely filed, the initial decision shall constitute the final decision of the authority head and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after it is issued by the presiding officer.
[52 FR 39498, Oct. 22, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 600, Jan. 9, 1989]
§ 1264.137
Reconsideration of initial decision.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, any party may file a motion for reconsideration of the initial decision within 20 days of receipt of the initial decision. If service was made by mail, receipt will be presumed to be 5 days from the date of mailing in the absence of contrary proof.
(b) Every such motion must set forth the matters claimed to have been erroneously decided and the nature of the alleged errors. Such motion shall be accompanied by a supporting brief.
(c) Responses to such motions shall be allowed only upon request of the presiding officer.
(d) No party may file a motion for reconsideration of an initial decision that has been revised in response to a previous motion for reconsideration.
(e) The presiding officer may dispose of a motion for reconsideration by denying it or by issuing a revised initial decision.
(f) If the presiding officer denies a motion for reconsideration, the initial decision shall constitute the final decision of the authority head and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after the presiding officer denies the motion, unless the initial decision is timely appealed to the authority head in accordance with § 1264.138.
(g) If the presiding officer issues a revised initial decision, the revised decision shall constitute the final decision of the authority head and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after it is issued, unless it is timely appealed to the authority head in accordance with § 1264.138.
[52 FR 39498, Oct. 22, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 600, Jan. 9, 1989]
§ 1264.138
Appeal to authority head.
(a) Any defendant who has filed a timely answer and who is determined in an initial decision to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment may appeal such decision to the authority head by filing a notice of appeal with the authority head in accordance with this section.
(b) The time for appeal to the authority head is as follows:
(1) A notice of appeal may be filed at any time within 30 days after the presiding officer issues an initial decision. However, if any other party files a motion for a reconsideration under § 1264.137, consideration of the appeal shall be stayed automatically pending resolution of the motion for reconsideration.
(2) If a motion for reconsideration is timely filed, a notice of appeal must be filed within 30 days after the presiding officer denies the motion or issues a revised initial decision, whichever applies.
(3) If no motion for reconsideration is timely filed, a notice of appeal must be filed within 30 days after the presiding officer issues the initial decision.
(4) The authority head may extend the initial 30-day period for an additional 30 days if the defendant files with the authority head a request for an extension within the initial 30-day period and shows good cause.
(c) If the defendant files a timely notice of appeal with the authority head and the time for filing motions for reconsideration under § 1264.137 has expired, the presiding officer shall forward the record of the proceeding to the authority head.
(d) A notice of appeal shall be accompanied by a written brief specifying exceptions to the initial decision and reasons supporting the exceptions.
(e) The representative for the Government may file a brief in opposition to exceptions within 30 days of receiving the notice of appeal and accompanying brief.
(f) There is no right to appear personally before the authority head.
(g) There is no right to appeal any interlocutory ruling by the presiding officer.
(h) In reviewing the initial decision, the authority head shall not consider any objection that was not raised before the presiding officer unless a demonstration is made of extraordinary circumstances causing the failure to raise the objection.
(i) If any party demonstrates to the satisfaction of the authority head that additional evidence not presented at such hearing is material and that there were reasonable grounds for the failure to present such evidence at such hearing, the authority head shall remand the matter to the presiding officer for consideration of such additional evidence.
(j) The authority head may affirm, reduce, reverse, compromise, remand, or settle any penalty or assessment, determined by the presiding officer in any initial decision.
(k) The authority head shall promptly serve each party to the appeal with a copy of the decision of the authority head. At the same time the authority head shall serve the defendant with a statement describing the defendant's right to seek judicial review.
(l) Unless a petition for review is filed as provided in 31 U.S.C. 3805, after a defendant has exhausted all administrative remedies under this part and within 60 days after the date on which the authority head serves the defendant with a copy of the authority head's decision, a determination that a defendant is liable under § 1264.102 is final and is not subject to judicial review.
[52 FR 39498, Oct. 22, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 600, Jan. 9, 1989]
§ 1264.139
Stays ordered by the Department of Justice.
If at any time the Attorney General or an Assistant Attorney General designated by the Attorney General transmits to the authority head a written finding that continuation of the administrative process described in this part with respect to a claim or statement may adversely affect any pending or potential criminal or civil action related to such claim or statement, the authority head shall stay the process immediately. If the process is before the presiding officer, the authority head shall promptly transmit the finding to the presiding officer, who, in turn, must stay the proceeding and give notice to all parties and their representatives. The authority head may order the process resumed only upon receipt of the written authorization of the Attorney General.
§ 1264.140
Stay pending appeal.
(a) An initial decision is stayed automatically pending disposition of a motion for reconsideration or of an appeal to the authority head.
(b) No administrative stay is available following a final decision of the authority head.
§ 1264.141
Judicial review.
Section 3805 of Title 31, United States Code, authorizes judicial review by an appropriate United States District Court of a final decision of the authority head imposing penalties or assessments under this part and specifies the procedures for such review.
§ 1264.142
Collection of civil penalties and assessments.
Sections 3806 and 3808(b) of Title 31, United States Code, authorize actions for collection of civil penalties and assessments imposed under this part and specify the procedures for such actions.
§ 1264.143
Right to administrative offset.
The amount of any penalty or assessment which has become final, or for which a judgment has been entered under § 1264.141 or § 1264.142, or any amount agreed upon in a compromise or settlement under § 1264.145, may be collected by administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716, except that an administrative offset may not be made under this subsection against a refund of an overpayment of Federal taxes, then or later owing by the United States to the defendant.
§ 1264.144
Deposit in Treasury of United States.
All amounts collected pursuant to this part shall be deposited as miscellaneous receipts in the Treasury of the United States, except as provided in 31 U.S.C. 3806(g).
§ 1264.145
Compromise or settlement.
(a) Parties may make offers of compromise or settlement at any time, including proposals for alternative dispute resolution.
(b) The reviewing official has the exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part at any time after the date on which the reviewing official is permitted to refer allegations of liability to a presiding officer and before the date on which the presiding officer issues an initial decision.
(c) The authority head has exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part at any time after the date on which the presiding officer issues an initial decision, except during the pendency of any judicial review under § 1264.141 or during the pendency of any civil action to collect penalties and assessments under § 1264.142.
(d) The Attorney General has exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part during the pendency of any judicial review under 31 U.S.C. 3805 or of any civil action to recover penalties and assessments under 31 U.S.C. 3806.
(e) The investigating official may recommend settlement terms to the reviewing official, the authority head, or the Attorney General, as appropriate. The reviewing official may recommend settlement terms to the authority head, or the Attorney General, as appropriate.
(f) Any compromise or settlement must be in writing.
§ 1264.146
Limitations.
(a) The notice of hearing with respect to a claim or statement must be served in the manner specified in § 1264.107 within 6 years after the date on which such claim or statement is made.
(b) If the defendant fails to file a timely answer, service of a notice under § 1264.109(b) shall be deemed a notice of hearing for purposes of this section.
(c) The statute of limitations may be extended by agreement of the parties.
Pt. 1264, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 1264—Notice To Consent to the Chairperson, NASA Board of Contract Appeals (BCA), or Designee, as Presiding Officer
In accordance with the provisions of 14 CFR 1264.106, you are hereby notified that the Chairperson, NASA Board of Contract Appeals (BCA), or designee, in addition to other duties, upon your consent, may conduct any or all proceedings as the presiding officer, pursuant to 14 CFR part 1264 which implements the Program Fraud Civil Penalties Act of 1986.
You should be aware that your decision to consent, or not to consent, to the referral of this case to the NASA/BCA must be entirely voluntary. Only if you and the authority head consent to this reference will either the Chairperson or the designee to whom the case may be assigned be informed of your decision.
An appeal from a decision by the presiding officer under this consent procedure may be taken in the same manner as an appeal from a decision by any other presiding officer, as provided in 14 CFR 1264.136(d), 1264.137, 1264.138, and 1264.141.
If you consent, you must sign, date, and return this form within the 30-day period provided for your answer (see 14 CFR 1264.108, 1264.109).
consent:
(Signature of person alleged to be liable)
(Print name)
(Date of signature)
Pt. 1266

# PART 1266—CROSS-WAIVER OF LIABILITY
Sec.
1266.100
Purpose.
1266.101
Scope.
1266.102
Cross-waiver of liability for agreements for activities related to the International Space Station.
1266.103
[Reserved]
1266.104
Cross-waiver of liability for launch agreements for science or space exploration activities unrelated to the International Space Station.

# Authority:
51 U.S.C. 20139 and 51 U.S.C. 20113(a), (e), and (f).

# Source:
73 FR 10148, Feb. 26, 2008, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1266.100
Purpose.
The purpose of this Part is to ensure that consistent cross-waivers of liability are included in NASA agreements for activities related to the ISS and for NASA's science or space exploration activities unrelated to the ISS that involve a launch.
§ 1266.101
Scope.
The provisions at § 1266.102 are intended to implement the cross-waiver requirement in Article 16 of the intergovernmental agreement entitled, “Agreement Among the Government of Canada, Governments of Member States of the European Space Agency, the Government of Japan, the Government of the Russian Federation, and the Government of the United States of America concerning Cooperation on the Civil International Space Station (IGA).” Article 16 establishes a cross-waiver of liability for use by the Partner States and their related entities and requires that this reciprocal waiver of claims be extended to contractually or otherwise-related entities of NASA by requiring those entities to make similar waivers of liability. Thus, NASA is required to include IGA-based cross-waivers in agreements for ISS activities that fall within the scope of “Protected Space Operations,” as defined in § 1266.102. The provisions of § 1266.102 provide the regulatory basis for cross-waiver clauses to be incorporated into NASA agreements for activities that implement the IGA and the memoranda of understanding between the United States and its respective international partners. The provisions of § 1266.104 provide the regulatory basis for cross-waiver clauses to be incorporated into NASA launch agreements for science or space exploration activities unrelated to the ISS.
§ 1266.102
Cross-waiver of liability for agreements for activities related to the International Space Station.
(a) The objective of this section is to implement NASA's responsibility to flow down the cross-waiver of liability in Article 16 of the IGA to its related entities in the interest of encouraging participation in the exploration, exploitation, and use of outer space through the International Space Station (ISS). The IGA declares the Partner States' intention that the cross-waiver of liability be broadly construed to achieve this objective.
(b) For the purposes of this section:
(1) The term “Party” means a party to a NASA agreement involving activities in connection with the ISS.
(2)(i) The term “related entity” means:
(A) A contractor or subcontractor of a Party or a Partner State at any tier;
(B) A user or customer of a Party or a Partner State at any tier; or
(C) A contractor or subcontractor of a user or customer of a Party or a Partner State at any tier.
(ii) The terms “contractor” and “subcontractor” include suppliers of any kind.
(iii) The term “related entity” may also apply to a State, or an agency or institution of a State, having the same relationship to a Partner State as described in paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) through (b)(2)(i)(C) of this section or otherwise engaged in the implementation of Protected Space Operations as defined in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(3) The term “damage” means:
(i) Bodily injury to, or other impairment of health of, or death of, any person;
(ii) Damage to, loss of, or loss of use of any property;
(iii) Loss of revenue or profits; or
(iv) Other direct, indirect, or consequential damage.
(4) The term “launch vehicle” means an object, or any part thereof, intended for launch, launched from Earth, or returning to Earth which carries payloads or persons, or both.
(5) The term “payload” means all property to be flown or used on or in a launch vehicle or the ISS.
(6) The term “Protected Space Operations” means all launch or transfer vehicle activities, ISS activities, and payload activities on Earth, in outer space, or in transit between Earth and outer space in implementation of the IGA, MOUs concluded pursuant to the IGA, and implementing arrangements. It includes, but is not limited to:
(i) Research, design, development, test, manufacture, assembly, integration, operation, or use of launch or
transfer vehicles, the ISS, payloads, or instruments, as well as related support equipment and facilities and services; and
(ii) All activities related to ground support, test, training, simulation, or guidance and control equipment and related facilities or services. “Protected Space Operations” also includes all activities related to evolution of the ISS, as provided for in Article 14 of the IGA. “Protected Space Operations” excludes activities on Earth which are conducted on return from the ISS to develop further a payload's product or process for use other than for ISS-related activities in implementation of the IGA.
(7) The term “transfer vehicle” means any vehicle that operates in space and transfers payloads or persons or both between two different space objects, between two different locations on the same space object, or between a space object and the surface of a celestial body. A transfer vehicle also includes a vehicle that departs from and returns to the same location on a space object.
(8) The term “Partner State” includes each Contracting Party for which the IGA has entered into force, pursuant to Article 25 of the IGA or pursuant to any successor agreement. A Partner State includes its Cooperating Agency. It also includes any entity specified in the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between NASA and the Government of Japan to assist the Government of Japan's Cooperating Agency in the implementation of that MOU.
(c)(1) Cross-waiver of liability: Each Party agrees to a cross-waiver of liability pursuant to which each Party waives all claims against any of the entities or persons listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of this section based on damage arising out of Protected Space Operations. This cross-waiver shall apply only if the person, entity, or property causing the damage is involved in Protected Space Operations and the person, entity, or property damaged is damaged by virtue of its involvement in Protected Space Operations. The cross-waiver shall apply to any claims for damage, whatever the legal basis for such claims, against:
(i) Another Party;
(ii) A Partner State other than the United States of America;
(iii) A related entity of any entity identified in paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (c)(1)(ii) of this section; or
(iv) The employees of any of the entities identified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iii) of this section.
(2) In addition, each Party shall, by contract or otherwise, extend the cross-waiver of liability, as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, to its related entities by requiring them, by contract or otherwise, to:
(i) Waive all claims against the entities or persons identified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of this section; and
(ii) Require that their related entities waive all claims against the entities or persons identified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of this section.
(3) For avoidance of doubt, this cross-waiver of liability includes a cross-waiver of claims arising from the Convention on International Liability for Damage Caused by Space Objects, which entered into force on September 1, 1972, where the person, entity, or property causing the damage is involved in Protected Space Operations and the person, entity, or property damaged is damaged by virtue of its involvement in Protected Space Operations.
(4) Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section, this cross-waiver of liability shall not be applicable to:
(i) Claims between a Party and its own related entity or between its own related entities;
(ii) Claims made by a natural person, his/her estate, survivors or subrogees (except when a subrogee is a Party to the agreement or is otherwise bound by the terms of this cross-waiver) for bodily injury to, or other impairment of health of, or death of, such person;
(iii) Claims for damage caused by willful misconduct;
(iv) Intellectual property claims;
(v) Claims for damage resulting from a failure of a Party to extend the cross-
waiver of liability to its related entities, pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section; or
(vi) Claims by a Party arising out of or relating to another Party's failure to perform its obligations under the agreement.
(5) Nothing in this section shall be construed to create the basis for a claim or suit where none would otherwise exist.
(6) This cross-waiver shall not be applicable when 49 U.S.C. Subtitle IX, Chapter. 701 is applicable.
§ 1266.103
[Reserved]
§ 1266.104
Cross-waiver of liability for launch agreements for science or space exploration activities unrelated to the International Space Station.
(a) The purpose of this section is to implement a cross-waiver of liability between the parties to agreements for NASA's science or space exploration activities that are not related to the International Space Station (ISS) but involve a launch. It is intended that the cross-waiver of liability be broadly construed to achieve this objective.
(b) For purposes of this section:
(1) The term “Party” means a party to a NASA agreement for science or space exploration activities unrelated to the ISS that involve a launch.
(2) (i) The term “related entity” means:
(A) A contractor or subcontractor of a Party at any tier;
(B) A user or customer of a Party at any tier; or
(C) A contractor or subcontractor of a user or customer of a Party at any tier.
(ii) The terms “contractor” and “subcontractor” include suppliers of any kind.
(iii) The term “related entity” may also apply to a State or an agency or institution of a State, having the same relationship to a Party as described in paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) through (b)(2)(i)(C) of this section, or otherwise engaged in the implementation of Protected Space Operations as defined in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(3) The term “damage” means:
(i) Bodily injury to, or other impairment of health of, or death of, any person;
(ii) Damage to, loss of, or loss of use of any property;
(iii) Loss of revenue or profits; or
(iv) Other direct, indirect, or consequential damage.
(4) The term “launch vehicle” means an object, or any part thereof, intended for launch, launched from Earth, or returning to Earth which carries payloads or persons, or both.
(5) The term “payload” means all property to be flown or used on or in a launch vehicle.
(6) The term “Protected Space Operations” means all launch or transfer vehicle activities and payload activities on Earth, in outer space, or in transit between Earth and outer space in implementation of an agreement for launch services. Protected Space Operations begins at the signature of the agreement and ends when all activities done in implementation of the agreement are completed. It includes, but is not limited to:
(i) Research, design, development, test, manufacture, assembly, integration, operation, or use of launch or transfer vehicles, payloads, or instruments, as well as related support equipment and facilities and services; and
(ii) All activities related to ground support, test, training, simulation, or guidance and control equipment and related facilities or services. The term “Protected Space Operations” excludes activities on Earth that are conducted on return from space to develop further a payload's product or process for use other than for the activities within the scope of an agreement for launch services.
(7) The term “transfer vehicle” means any vehicle that operates in space and transfers payloads or persons or both between two different space objects, between two different locations on the same space object, or between a space object and the surface of a celestial body. A transfer vehicle also includes a vehicle that departs from and returns to the same location on a space object.
(c)(1) Cross-waiver of liability: Each Party agrees to a cross-waiver of liability pursuant to which each Party
waives all claims against any of the entities or persons listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of this section based on damage arising out of Protected Space Operations. This cross-waiver shall apply only if the person, entity, or property causing the damage is involved in Protected Space Operations and the person, entity, or property damaged is damaged by virtue of its involvement in Protected Space Operations. The cross-waiver shall apply to any claims for damage, whatever the legal basis for such claims, against:
(i) Another Party;
(ii) A party to another NASA agreement that includes flight on the same launch vehicle;
(iii) A related entity of any entity identified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) or (c)(1)(ii) of this section; or
(iv) The employees of any of the entities identified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iii) of this section.
(2) In addition, each Party shall extend the cross-waiver of liability, as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, to its own related entities by requiring them, by contract or otherwise, to:
(i) Waive all claims against the entities or persons identified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of this section; and
(ii) Require that their related entities waive all claims against the entities or persons identified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of this section.
(3) For avoidance of doubt, this cross-waiver of liability includes a cross-waiver of claims arising from the Convention on International Liability for Damage Caused by Space Objects, which entered into force on September 1, 1972, where the person, entity, or property causing the damage is involved in Protected Space Operations and the person, entity, or property damaged is damaged by virtue of its involvement in Protected Space Operations.
(4) Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section, this cross-waiver of liability shall not be applicable to:
(i) Claims between a Party and its own related entity or between its own related entities;
(ii) Claims made by a natural person, his/her estate, survivors, or subrogees (except when a subrogee is a Party to the agreement or is otherwise bound by the terms of this cross-waiver) for bodily injury to, or other impairment of health of, or death of, such person;
(iii) Claims for damage caused by willful misconduct;
(iv) Intellectual property claims;
(v) Claims for damages resulting from a failure of a Party to extend the cross-waiver of liability to its related entities, pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section; or
(vi) Claims by a Party arising out of or relating to another Party's failure to perform its obligations under the agreement.
(5) Nothing in this section shall be construed to create the basis for a claim or suit where none would otherwise exist.
(6) This cross-waiver shall not be applicable when 49 U.S.C. Subtitle IX, Chapter 701 is applicable.
Pt. 1271

# PART 1271—NEW RESTRICTIONS ON LOBBYING

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1271.100
Conditions on use of funds.
1271.105
Definitions.
1271.110
Certification and disclosure.

# Subpart B—Activities by Own Employees
1271.200
Agency and legislative liaison.
1271.205
Professional and technical services.
1271.210
Reporting.

# Subpart C—Activities by Other Than Own Employees
1271.300
Professional and technical services.

# Subpart D—Penalties and Enforcement
1271.400
Penalties.
1271.405
Penalty procedures.
1271.410
Enforcement.

# Subpart E—Exemptions
1271.500
Secretary of Defense.

# Subpart F—Agency Reports
1271.600
Semi-annual compilation.
1271.605
Inspector General report.
Appendix A to Part 1271—Certification Regarding Lobbying
Appendix B to Part 1271—Disclosure Form To Report Lobbying

# Authority:
Section 319, Pub. L. 101-121 (31 U.S.C. 1352); Pub. L. 97-258 (31 U.S.C. 6301
et seq.
)

# Cross Reference:
See also Office of Management and Budget notice published at 54 FR 52306, December 20, 1989.

# Source:
55 FR 6737, 6748, Feb. 26, 1990, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1271.100
Conditions on use of funds.
(a) No appropriated funds may be expended by the recipient of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative ageement to pay any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any of the following covered Federal actions: the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement shall file with that agency a certification, set forth in appendix A, that the person has not made, and will not make, any payment prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a Federal contract, grant, loan, or a cooperative agreement shall file with that agency a disclosure form, set forth in appendix B, if such person has made or has agreed to make any payment using nonappropriated funds (to include profits from any covered Federal action), which would be prohibited under paragraph (a) of this section if paid for with appropriated funds.
(d) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with that agency a statement, set forth in appendix A, whether that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or guarantee.
(e) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with that agency a disclosure form, set forth in appendix B, if that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or guarantee.
§ 1271.105
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a)
Agency,
as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(f), includes Federal executive departments and agencies as well as independent regulatory commissions and Government corporations, as defined in 31 U.S.C. 9101(1).
(b)
Covered Federal action
means any of the following Federal actions:
(1) The awarding of any Federal contract;
(2) The making of any Federal grant;
(3) The making of any Federal loan;
(4) The entering into of any cooperative agreement; and,
(5) The extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
Covered Federal action does not include receiving from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan. Loan guarantees and loan insurance are addressed independently within this part.
(c)
Federal contract
means an acquisition contract awarded by an agency, including those subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), and any other acquisition contract for real or personal property or services not subject to the FAR.
(d)
Federal cooperative agreement
means a cooperative agreement entered into by an agency.
(e)
Federal grant
means an award of financial assistance in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, by the Federal Government or a direct appropriation made by law to any person. The term does not include technical assistance which provides services instead of money, or other assistance in the form of revenue sharing, loans, loan guarantees, loan insurance, interest subsidies, insurance, or direct United States cash assistance to an individual.
(f)
Federal loan
means a loan made by an agency. The term does not include loan guarantee or loan insurance.
(g)
Indian tribe
and
tribal organization
have the meaning provided in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450B). Alaskan Natives are included under the definitions of Indian tribes in that Act.
(h)
Influencing or attempting to influence
means making, with the intent to influence, any communication to or appearance before an officer or employee or any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any covered Federal action.
(i)
Loan guarantee
and
loan insurance
means an agency's guarantee or insurance of a loan made by a person.
(j)
Local government
means a unit of government in a State and, if chartered, established, or otherwise recognized by a State for the performance of a governmental duty, including a local public authority, a special district, an intrastate district, a council of governments, a sponsor group representative organization, and any other instrumentality of a local government.
(k)
Officer or employee of an agency
includes the following individuals who are employed by an agency:
(1) An individual who is appointed to a position in the Government under title 5, U.S. Code, including a position under a temporary appointment;
(2) A member of the uniformed services as defined in section 101(3), title 37, U.S. Code;
(3) A special Government employee as defined in section 202, title 18, U.S. Code; and,
(4) An individual who is a member of a Federal advisory committee, as defined by the Federal Advisory Committee Act, title 5, U.S. Code appendix 2.
(l)
Person
means an individual, corporation, company, association, authority, firm, partnership, society, State, and local government, regardless of whether such entity is operated for profit or not for profit. This term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
(m)
Reasonable compensation
means, with respect to a regularly employed officer or employee of any person, compensation that is consistent with the normal compensation for such officer or employee for work that is not furnished to, not funded by, or not furnished in cooperation with the Federal Government.
(n)
Reasonable payment
means, with respect to perfessional and other technical services, a payment in an amount that is consistent with the amount normally paid for such services in the private sector.
(o)
Recipient
includes all contractors, subcontractors at any tier, and subgrantees at any tier of the recipient of funds received in connection with a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement. The term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
(p)
Regularly employed
means, with respect to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, an officer or employee who is employed by such person for at least 130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for receipt of such contract, grant, loan, cooperative agreement, loan insurance commitment, or loan guarantee commitment. An officer or employee who is employed by such person for less than
130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person shall be considered to be regularly employed as soon as he or she is employed by such person for 130 working days.
(q)
State
means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, a territory or possession of the United States, an agency or instrumentality of a State, and a multi-State, regional, or interstate entity having governmental duties and powers.
§ 1271.110
Certification and disclosure.
(a) Each person shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, with each submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for:
(1) Award of a Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) An award of a Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000.
(b) Each person shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, upon receipt by such person of:
(1) A Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) A Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000,
Unless such person previously filed a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Each person shall file a disclosure form at the end of each calendar quarter in which there occurs any event that requires disclosure or that materially affects the accuracy of the information contained in any disclosure form previously filed by such person under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section. An event that materially affects the accuracy of the information reported includes:
(1) A cumulative increase of $25,000 or more in the amount paid or expected to be paid for influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or
(2) A change in the person(s) or individual(s) influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or,
(3) A change in the officer(s), employee(s), or Member(s) contacted to influence or attempt to influence a covered Federal action.
(d) Any person who requests or receives from a person referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section:
(1) A subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal contract;
(2) A subgrant, contract, or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal grant;
(3) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal loan exceeding $150,000; or,
(4) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal cooperative agreement,
Shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, to the next tier above.
(e) All disclosure forms, but not certifications, shall be forwarded from tier to tier until received by the person referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section. That person shall forward all disclosure forms to the agency.
(f) Any certification or disclosure form filed under paragraph (e) of this section shall be treated as a material representation of fact upon which all receiving tiers shall rely. All liability arising from an erroneous representation shall be borne solely by the tier filing that representation and shall not be shared by any tier to which the erroneous representation is forwarded. Submitting an erroneous certification or disclosure constitutes a failure to file the required certification or disclosure, respectively. If a person fails to file a required certification or disclosure, the United States may pursue all available remedies, including those authorized by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code.
(g) For awards and commitments in process prior to December 23, 1989, but not made before that date, certifications shall be required at award or commitment, covering activities occurring between December 23, 1989, and the date of award or commitment. However, for awards and commitments in process prior to the December 23, 1989 effective date of these provisions,
but not made before December 23, 1989, disclosure forms shall not be required at time of award or commitment but shall be filed within 30 days.
(h) No reporting is required for an activity paid for with appropriated funds if that activity is allowable under either subpart B or C.

# Subpart B—Activities by Own Employees
§ 1271.200
Agency and legislative liaison.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 1271.100 (a), does not apply in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement if the payment is for agency and legislative liaison activities not directly related to a covered Federal action.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, providing any information specifically requested by an agency or Congress is allowable at any time.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following agency and legislative liaison activities are allowable at any time only where they are not related to a specific solicitation for any covered Federal action:
(1) Discussing with an agency (including individual demonstrations) the qualities and characteristics of the person's products or services, conditions or terms of sale, and service capabilities; and,
(2) Technical discussions and other activities regarding the application or adaptation of the person's products or services for an agency's use.
(d) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following agencies and legislative liaison activities are allowable only where they are prior to formal solicitation of any covered Federal action:
(1) Providing any information not specifically requested but necessary for an agency to make an informed decision about initiation of a covered Federal action;
(2) Technical discussions regarding the preparation of an unsolicited proposal prior to its official submission; and,
(3) Capability presentations by persons seeking awards from an agency pursuant to the provisions of the Small Business Act, as amended by Public Law 95-507 and other subsequent amendments.
(e) Only those activities expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.
§ 1271.205
Professional and technical services.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 1271.100(a), does not apply in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or an extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement if payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, “professional and technical services” shall be limited to advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline. For example, drafting of a legal document accompanying a bid or proposal by a lawyer is allowable. Similarly, technical advice provided by an engineer on the performance or operational capability of a piece of equipment rendered directly in the negotiation of a contract is allowable. However, communications with the intent to influence made by a professional (such as a licensed lawyer) or a technical person (such as a licensed accountant) are not allowable under this section unless they provide advice and analysis directly applying their professional or technical expertise and unless the advice or analysis is rendered directly and solely in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action. Thus, for example, communications with the intent to influence
made by a lawyer that do not provide legal advice or analysis directly and solely related to the legal aspects of his or her client's proposal, but generally advocate one proposal over another are not allowable under this section because the lawyer is not providing professional legal services. Similarly, communications with the intent to influence made by an engineer providing an engineering analysis prior to the preparation or submission of a bid or proposal are not allowable under this section since the engineer is providing technical services but not directly in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.
(c) Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award include those required by law or regulation, or reasonably expected to be required by law or regulation, and any other requirements in the actual award documents.
(d) Only those services expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.
§ 1271.210
Reporting.
No reporting is required with respect to payments of reasonable compensation made to regularly employed officers or employees of a person.

# Subpart C—Activities by Other Than Own Employees
§ 1271.300
Professional and technical services.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 1271.100(a), does not apply in the case of any reasonable payment to a person, other than an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action, if the payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) The reporting requirements in § 1271.110 (a) and (b) regarding filing a disclosure form by each person, if required, shall not apply with respect to professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, “professional and technical services” shall be limited to advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline. For example, drafting or a legal document accompanying a bid or proposal by a lawyer is allowable. Similarly, technical advice provided by an engineer on the performance or operational capability of a piece of equipment rendered directly in the negotiation of a contract is allowable. However, communications with the intent to influence made by a professional (such as a licensed lawyer) or a technical person (such as a licensed accountant) are not allowable under this section unless they provide advice and analysis directly applying their professional or technical expertise and unless the advice or analysis is rendered directly and solely in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action. Thus, for example, communications with the intent to influence made by a lawyer that do not provide legal advice or analysis directly and solely related to the legal aspects of his or her client's proposal, but generally advocate one proposal over another are not allowable under this section because the lawyer is not providing professional legal services. Similarly, communications with the intent to influence made by an engineer providing an engineering analysis prior to the preparation or submission of a bid or proposal are not allowable under this section since the engineer is providing technical services but not directly in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.
(d) Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award include those required by law or regulation, or reasonably expected to be required by law or regulation, and any other requirements in the actual award documents.
(e) Persons other than officers or employees of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action include consultants and trade associations.
(f) Only those services expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.

# Subpart D—Penalties and Enforcement
§ 1271.400
Penalties.
(a) Any person who makes an expenditure prohibited herein shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $24,496 and not more than $244,958 for each such expenditure.
(b) Any person who fails to file or amend the disclosure form (see appendix B) to be filed or amended if required herein, shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $24,496 and not more than $244,958 for each such failure.
(c) A filing or amended filing on or after the date on which an administrative action for the imposition of a civil penalty is commenced does not prevent the imposition of such civil penalty for a failure occurring before that date. An administrative action is commenced with respect to a failure when an investigating official determines in writing to commence an investigation of an allegation of such failure.
(d) In determining whether to impose a civil penalty, and the amount of any such penalty, by reason of a violation by any person, the agency shall consider the nature, circumstances, extent, and gravity of the violation, the effect on the ability of such person to continue in business, any prior violations by such person, the degree of culpability of such person, the ability of the person to pay the penalty, and such other matters as may be appropriate.
(e) First offenders under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section shall be subject to a civil penalty of $24,496, absent aggravating circumstances. Second and subsequent offenses by persons shall be subject to an appropriate civil penalty between $24,496 and $244,958, as determined by the agency head or his or her designee.
(f) An imposition of a civil penalty under this section does not prevent the United States from seeking any other remedy that may apply to the same conduct that is the basis for the imposition of such civil penalty.
[55 FR 6737, 6748, Feb. 26, 1990, as amended at 82 FR 28763, June 26, 2017; 82 FR 48762, Oct. 20, 2017; 83 FR 2046, Jan. 16, 2018; 84 FR 13115, Apr. 4, 2019; 85 FR 16546, Mar. 24, 2020; 86 FR 14245, Mar. 15, 2021; 87 FR 23108, Apr. 19, 2022; 88 FR 24906, Apr. 25, 2023; 89 FR 20107, Mar. 21, 2024]
§ 1271.405
Penalty procedures.
Agencies shall impose and collect civil penalties pursuant to the provisions of the Program Fraud and Civil Remedies Act, 31 U.S.C. sections 3803 (except subsection (c)), 3804, 3805, 3806, 3807, 3808, and 3812, insofar as these provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements herein.
§ 1271.410
Enforcement.
The head of each agency shall take such actions as are necessary to ensure that the provisions herein are vigorously implemented and enforced in that agency.

# Subpart E—Exemptions
§ 1271.500
Secretary of Defense.
(a) The Secretary of Defense may exempt, on a case-by-case basis, a covered Federal action from the prohibition whenever the Secretary determines, in writing, that such an exemption is in the national interest. The Secretary shall transmit a copy of each such written exemption to Congress immediately after making such a determination.
(b) The Department of Defense may issue supplemental regulations to implement paragraph (a) of this section.

# Subpart F—Agency Reports
§ 1271.600
Semi-annual compilation.
(a) The head of each agency shall collect and compile the disclosure reports (see appendix B) and, on May 31 and November 30 of each year, submit to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives a report containing a compilation of the information contained in the disclosure reports received during the six-month period ending on March 31 or
September 30, respectively, of that year.
(b) The report, including the compilation, shall be available for public inspection 30 days after receipt of the report by the Secretary and the Clerk.
(c) Information that involves intelligence matters shall be reported only to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives, and the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information shall not be available for public inspection.
(d) Information that is classified under Executive Order 12356 or any successor order shall be reported only to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives or the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives (whichever such committees have jurisdiction of matters involving such information) and to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information shall not be available for public inspection.
(e) The first semi-annual compilation shall be submitted on May 31, 1990, and shall contain a compilation of the disclosure reports received from December 23, 1989 to March 31, 1990.
(f) Major agencies, designated by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), are required to provide machine-readable compilations to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives no later than with the compilations due on May 31, 1991. OMB shall provide detailed specifications in a memorandum to these agencies.
(g) Non-major agencies are requested to provide machine-readable compilations to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives.
(h) Agencies shall keep the originals of all disclosure reports in the official files of the agency.
§ 1271.605
Inspector General report.
(a) The Inspector General, or other official as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, of each agency shall prepare and submit to Congress each year, commencing with submission of the President's Budget in 1991, an evaluation of the compliance of that agency with, and the effectiveness of, the requirements herein. The evaluation may include any recommended changes that may be necessary to strengthen or improve the requirements.
(b) In the case of an agency that does not have an Inspector General, the agency official comparable to an Inspector General shall prepare and submit the annual report, or, if there is no such comparable official, the head of the agency shall prepare and submit the annual report.
(c) The annual report shall be submitted at the same time the agency submits its annual budget justifications to Congress.
(d) The annual report shall include the following: All alleged violations relating to the agency's covered Federal actions during the year covered by the report, the actions taken by the head of the agency in the year covered by the report with respect to those alleged violations and alleged violations in previous years, and the amounts of civil penalties imposed by the agency in the year covered by the report.
Pt. 1271, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 1271—Certification Regarding Lobbying

# Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements
The undersigned certifies, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
(1) No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid, by or on behalf of the undersigned, to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of an agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(2) If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
(3) The undersigned shall require that the language of this certification be included in the award documents for all subawards at all tiers (including subcontracts, subgrants, and contracts under grants, loans, and cooperative agreements) and that all subrecipients shall certify and disclose accordingly.
This certification is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when this transaction was made or entered into. Submission of this certification is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required certification shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $24,496 and not more than $244,958 for each such failure.

# Statement for Loan Guarantees and Loan Insurance
The undersigned states, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
If any funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
Submission of this statement is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required statement shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $24,496 and not more than $244,958 for each such failure.
[55 FR 6737, 6748, Feb. 26, 1990, as amended at 82 FR 28763, June 26, 2017; 82 FR 48762, Oct. 20, 2017; 83 FR 2046, Jan. 16, 2018; 84 FR 13115, Apr. 4, 2019; 85 FR 16546, Mar. 24, 2020; 86 FR 14245, Mar. 15, 2021; 87 FR 23108, Apr. 19, 2022; 88 FR 24906, Apr. 25, 2023; 89 FR 20107, Mar. 21, 2024]
Pt. 1271, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 1271—Disclosure Form To Report Lobbying
EC09SE91.013
EC09SE91.014
EC09SE91.015
PARTS 1273-1274 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1275

# PART 1275—RESEARCH MISCONDUCT
Sec.
1275.100
Purpose and scope.
1275.101
Definitions.
1275.102
OIG handling of research misconduct matters.
1275.103
Role of awardee institutions.
1275.104
Conduct of Inquiry by the OIG.
1275.105
Conduct of the OIG investigation of research misconduct.
1275.106
Administrative actions.
1275.107
Adjudication.
1275.108
Appeals.
Appendix: NASA Research Disciplines and Respective Associated Enterprises

# Authority:
Pub. L. 85-568, 72 Stat. 426, 42 U.S.C. 2473.

# Source:
69 FR 42103, July 14, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1275.100
Purpose and scope.
(a) The purpose of this part is to establish procedures to be used by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) for the handling of allegations of research misconduct. Specifically, the procedures contained in this part are designed to result in:
(1) Findings as to whether research misconduct by a person or institution has occurred in proposing, performing, reviewing, or reporting results from research activities funded or supported by NASA; and
(2) Recommendations on appropriate administrative actions that may be undertaken by NASA in response to research misconduct determined to have occurred.
(b) This part applies to all research wholly or partially funded or supported by NASA. This includes any research conducted by a NASA installation and any research conducted by a public or private entity receiving NASA funds or using NASA facilities, equipment or personnel, under a contract, grant, cooperative agreement, Space Act agreement, or other transaction with NASA.
(c) NASA shall make a determination of research misconduct only after careful inquiry and investigation by an awardee institution, another Federal agency, or NASA, and an adjudication conducted by NASA. NASA shall afford the accused individual or institution a chance to comment on the investigation report and a chance to appeal the decision resulting from the adjudication. In structuring procedures in individual cases, NASA may take into account procedures already followed by other entities investigating the same allegation of research misconduct. Investigation of allegations which, if true, would constitute criminal offenses, are not covered by this part.
(d) A determination that research misconduct has occurred must be accompanied by recommendations on appropriate administrative actions. However, the administrative actions themselves may be imposed only after further procedures described in applicable Federal acquisition and NASA regulations concerning contracts, cooperative agreements, grants, Space Act agreements, or other transactions, depending on the type of agreement used to fund or support the research in question. Administrative actions involving NASA civil service employees may be imposed only in compliance with all relevant Federal laws and policies.
(e) Allegations of research misconduct concerning NASA research may be transmitted to NASA in one of the following ways: By mail address to the Office of Inspector General (OIG), National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 300 E Street SW., Washington, DC 20546-0001 via the NASA OIG Hotline at 1-800-424-9183, or cyber hotline at
http://oig.nasa.gov/hotline.html.
(f) To the extent permitted by law, the identity of the Complainant, witnesses, or other sources of information who wish to remain anonymous shall be kept confidential. To the extent permitted by law, NASA shall protect the research misconduct inquiry, investigation, adjudication, and appeal records maintained by NASA as exempt from mandatory disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552, the Freedom of Information Act, as amended, and 5 U.S.C. 552a, the Privacy Act, as amended.
[69 FR 42103, July 14, 2004, as amended at 77 FR 44440, July 30, 2012]
§ 1275.101
Definitions.
(a) Research misconduct means fabrication, falsification, or plagiarism in
proposing, performing, or reviewing research, or in reporting research results. Research misconduct does not include honest error or differences of opinion. Research as used in this part includes all basic and applied research as defined in OMB Circular A-11 in all fields of science, engineering, and mathematics, including, but not limited to, research in space and Earth sciences, economics, education, linguistics, medicine, psychology, social sciences, statistics, and biological and physical research (ground based and microgravity), including research involving human subjects or animals.
(b)
Fabrication
means making up data or results and recording or reporting them.
(c)
Falsification
means manipulating research materials, equipment, or processes, or changing or omitting data or results such that the research is not accurately represented in the research record.
(d)
Plagiarism
means the appropriation of another person's ideas, processes, results, or words without giving appropriate credit.
(e)
Awardee institution
means any public or private entity or organization (including a Federal, State, or local agency) that is a party to a NASA contract, grant, cooperative agreement, Space Act agreement, or to any other transaction with NASA, whose purpose includes the conduct of research.
(f)
NASA research
means research wholly or partially funded or supported by NASA involving an awardee institution or a NASA installation. This definition includes research wholly or partially funded by NASA appropriated funds, or research involving the use of NASA facilities, equipment, or personnel.
(g)
NASA research discipline
means one of the following areas of research that together comprise NASA's research mission for aeronautics, space science, Earth science, biomedicine, biology, engineering and physical sciences (physics and chemistry).
(h)
Inquiry
means the assessment of whether an allegation of research misconduct has substance and warrants an investigation.
(i)
Investigation
means the formal development of a factual record and the examination of that record leading to recommended findings on whether research misconduct has occurred, and if the recommended findings are that such conduct has occurred, to include recommendations on appropriate administrative actions.
(j)
Complainant
is the individual bringing an allegation of research misconduct related to NASA research.
(k)
Respondent
is the individual or institution who is the subject of an allegation of research misconduct related to NASA research.
(l)
Adjudication
means the formal procedure for reviewing and evaluating the investigation report and the accompanying evidentiary record and for determining whether to accept the recommended findings and any recommendations for administrative actions resulting from the investigation.
(m) NASA Adjudication Official is the NASA Associate Administrator of a Mission Directorate, Chief Technologist, or Chief Engineer, depending on the research area involved in the misconduct allegation (as described in the list of NASA research disciplines and their associated directorates contained in the Appendix to this part).
(n)
Appeal
means the formal procedure initiated at the request of the Respondent for review of a determination resulting from the adjudication and for affirming, overturning, or modifying it.
(o)
NASA Appeals Official
is the NASA Deputy Administrator or other official designated by the NASA Administrator.
[69 FR 42103, July 14, 2004, as amended at 77 FR 44441, July 30, 2012]
§ 1275.102
OIG handling of research misconduct matters.
(a) When an allegation is made to the OIG, rather than to the awardee institution, the OIG shall determine whether the allegation concerns NASA research and whether the allegation, if true, falls within the definition of research misconduct in § 1275.101(a). Investigation of allegations which, if true, would constitute criminal offenses, are not covered by this part. If these criteria are met and the research in question is being conducted by NASA researchers, the OIG shall proceed in accordance with § 1275.104. If the
research in question is being conducted at an awardee institution, another Federal agency, or is a collaboration between NASA researchers and co-investigators at either academia or industry, the OIG must refer the allegation that meets the definition of research misconduct to the entities involved and determine whether to—
(1) Defer its inquiry or investigation pending review of the results of an inquiry or investigation conducted at the awardee institution or at the Federal agency (referred to for purposes of this part as
external investigations
) determined to be the lead investigative organization for the case; or
(2) Commence its own inquiry or investigation.
(b) The OIG must inform the NASA Office of the Chief Scientist of all allegations that meet the definition of research misconduct received by the OIG and of the determinations of the OIG required by § 1275.101. The NASA Office of the Chief Scientist shall notify the NASA Office of the Chief Engineer or the NASA Office of the Chief Technologist when the research is either engineering or technology research.
(c) The OIG should defer its inquiry or investigation pending review of the results of an external investigation whenever possible. Nevertheless, the OIG retains the right to proceed at any time with a NASA inquiry or investigation. Circumstances in which the OIG may elect not to defer its inquiry or investigation include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) When the OIG determines that the awardee institution is not prepared to handle the allegation in a manner consistent with this part;
(2) When the OIG determines that NASA involvement is needed to protect the public interest, including public health and safety;
(3) When the OIG determines that the allegation involves an awardee institution of sufficiently small size that it cannot reasonably conduct the investigation itself;
(4) When the OIG determines that a NASA program or project could be jeopardized by the occurrence of research misconduct; or
(5) When the OIG determines that any of the notifications or information required to be given to the OIG by the awardee institution pursuant to § 1275.103(b) requires NASA to cease its deferral to the awardee institution's procedures and to conduct its own inquiry or investigation.
(d) A copy of the investigation report, evidentiary record, and final determination resulting from an external investigation must be transmitted to the OIG for review. The OIG shall determine whether to recommend to the NASA Adjudication Official, or to the lead investigative organization in cases that involve multiple institutions, acceptance of the investigation report and final determination in whole or in part. The OIG's decision must be made within 45 days of receipt of the investigation report and evidentiary record. This period of time may be extended by the OIG for good cause. The OIG shall make this decision based on the OIG's assessment of the completeness of the investigation report, and the OIG's assessment of whether the investigating entity followed reasonable procedures, including whether the Respondent had an adequate opportunity to comment on the investigation report and whether these comments were given due consideration. If the OIG decides to recommend acceptance of the results of the external investigation, in whole or in part, the OIG shall transmit a copy of the final determination, the investigation report, and the evidentiary record to the NASA Adjudication Official, and to the NASA Office of the Chief Scientist. When the OIG decides not to recommend acceptance, the OIG must initiate its own investigation.
(e) In the case of an investigation conducted by the OIG, the OIG shall transmit copies of the investigation report, including the Respondent's written comments (if any), the evidentiary record and its recommendations, to the institution, to the NASA Adjudication Official and to the NASA Office of the Chief Scientist.
(f) Upon learning of alleged research misconduct, the OIG shall identify potentially implicated awards or proposals and, when appropriate, shall ensure that program, grant, or contracting officers handling them are informed. Neither a suspicion nor allegation of research misconduct, nor a
pending inquiry or investigation, shall normally delay review of proposals. Subject to paragraph (g) of this section, reviewers or panelists shall not be informed of allegations or of ongoing inquiries or investigations in order to avoid influencing reviews. In the event that an application receives a fundable rating or ranking by a review panel, funding can be deferred by the program until the completion of the inquiry or investigation.
(g) If, during the course of an OIG conducted inquiry or investigation, it appears that immediate administrative action, as described in § 1275.106, is necessary to protect public health or safety, Federal resources or interests, or the interests of those involved in the inquiry or investigation, the OIG shall inform the NASA sponsor for the research and the NASA Office of the Chief Scientist.
§ 1275.103
Role of awardee institutions.
(a) The awardee institutions have the primary responsibility for prevention and detection of research misconduct and for the inquiry, investigation, and adjudication of research misconduct alleged to have occurred in association with their own institutions, although NASA has ultimate oversight authority for NASA research.
(b) When an allegation of research misconduct related to NASA research is made directly to the OIG and the OIG defers to the awardee institution's inquiry or investigation, or when an allegation of research misconduct related to NASA research is made directly to the awardee institution which commences an inquiry or investigation, the awardee institution is required to:
(1) Notify the OIG if an inquiry supports a formal investigation as soon as this is determined.
(2) Keep the OIG informed during such an investigation.
(3) Notify the OIG immediately—
(i) If public health or safety is at risk;
(ii) If Federal resources, reputation, or other interests need protecting;
(iii) If research activities should be suspended;
(iv) If there is reasonable indication of possible violations of civil or criminal law;
(v) If Federal action is needed to protect the interests of those involved in the investigation; or
(vi) If the research community or the public should be informed.
(4) Provide the OIG with a copy of the investigation report, including the recommendations made to the awardee institution's adjudication official and the Respondent's written comments (if any), along with a copy of the evidentiary record.
(5) Provide the OIG with the awardee institution's final determination, including any corrective actions taken or planned.
(c) If an awardee institution wishes the OIG to defer its own inquiry or investigation, the awardee institution shall complete any inquiry and decide whether an investigation is warranted within 60 days. It should similarly complete any investigation, adjudication, or other procedure necessary to produce a final determination, within an additional 180 days. If completion of the process is delayed, but the awardee institution wishes NASA's deferral of its own procedures to continue, NASA may require submission of periodic status reports.
(d) Each awardee institution must maintain and effectively communicate to its staff, appropriate policies and procedures relating to research misconduct, including the requirements on when and how to notify NASA.
§ 1275.104
Conduct of Inquiry by the OIG.
(a) When an awardee institution or another Federal agency has promptly initiated its own investigation, the OIG may defer its inquiry or investigation until it receives the results of that external investigation. When the OIG does not receive the results within a reasonable time, the OIG shall ordinarily proceed with its own investigation.
(b) When the OIG decides to initiate a NASA investigation, the OIG must give prompt written notice to the individual or institution to be investigated, unless notice would prejudice the investigation or unless a criminal
investigation is underway or under active consideration. If notice is delayed, it must be given as soon as it will no longer prejudice the investigation or contravene requirements of law or Federal law-enforcement policies.
(c) When alleged misconduct may involve a crime, the OIG shall determine whether any criminal investigation is already pending or projected. If not, the OIG shall determine whether the matter should be referred to the Department of Justice.
(d) When a criminal investigation by the Department of Justice or another Federal agency is underway or under active consideration, the OIG shall determine what information, if any, may be disclosed to the Respondent or to NASA employees.
(e) To the extent possible, the identity of sources who wish to remain anonymous shall be kept confidential. To the extent allowed by law, documents and files maintained by the OIG during the course of an inquiry or investigation of misconduct shall be treated as investigative files exempt from mandatory public disclosure upon request under the Freedom of Information Act.
(f) When the OIG proceeds with its own inquiry, it is responsible for ensuring that the inquiry is completed within 60 days after it is commenced. The OIG may extend this period of time for good cause.
(g) On the basis of what the OIG learns from an inquiry, and in consultation as appropriate with other NASA offices, the OIG shall decide whether a formal investigation is warranted.
§ 1275.105
Conduct of the OIG investigation of research misconduct.
(a) The OIG shall make every reasonable effort to complete a NASA research misconduct investigation and issue a report within 120 days after initiating the investigation. The OIG may extend this period of time for good cause.
(b) A NASA investigation may include:
(1) Review of award files, reports, and other documents readily available at NASA or in the public domain;
(2) Review of procedures or methods and inspection of laboratory materials, specimens, and records at awardee institutions;
(3) Interviews with parties or witnesses;
(4) Review of any documents or other evidence provided by or properly obtainable from parties, witnesses, or other sources;
(5) Cooperation with other Federal agencies; and
(6) Opportunity for the Respondent to be heard.
(c) The OIG may invite outside consultants or experts to participate in a NASA investigation.
(d) During the course of the investigation, the OIG shall provide a draft of the investigation report to the Respondent, who shall be invited to submit comments. The Respondent must submit any comments within 20 days of receipt of the draft investigation report. This period of time may be extended by the OIG for good cause. Any comments submitted by the Respondent shall receive full consideration before the investigation report is made final.
(e) At the end of the investigation proceedings, an investigation report must be prepared that shall include recommended findings as to whether research misconduct has occurred. A recommended finding of research misconduct requires that:
(1) There be a significant departure from accepted practices of the relevant research community for maintaining the integrity of the research record;
(2) The research misconduct be committed intentionally, knowingly, or in reckless disregard of accepted practices; and
(3) The allegation be proven by a preponderance of evidence.
(f) The investigation report must also be transmitted with the recommendations for administrative action, when recommended findings of research misconduct are made. Section 1275.106 lists possible recommended administrative actions and considerations for use in determining appropriate recommendations.
(g) NASA OIG may elect to proceed with its administrative investigation
processes in lieu of a research misconduct investigation under this part when the allegation is against a civil service employee (an intramural researcher).
§ 1275.106
Administrative actions.
(a) Listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section are possible administrative actions that may be recommended by the investigation report and adopted by the adjudication process. They are not exhaustive, and are in addition to any administrative actions necessary to correct the research record. The administrative actions range from minimal restrictions (Group I Actions) to severe restrictions (Group III Actions), and do not include possible criminal sanctions.
(1) Group I Actions.
(i) Send a letter of reprimand to the individual or institution.
(ii) Require as a condition of an award that for a specified period of time an individual, department, or institution obtain special prior approval of particular activities from NASA.
(iii) Require for a specified period of time that an institutional official other than those guilty of research misconduct certify the accuracy of reports generated under an award or provide assurance of compliance with particular policies, regulations, guidelines, or special terms and conditions.
(2) Group II Actions.
(i) Restrict for a specified period of time designated activities or expenditures under an active award.
(ii) Require for a specified period of time special reviews of all requests for funding from an affected individual, department, or institution to ensure that steps have been taken to prevent repetition of the research misconduct.
(3) Group III Actions.
(i) Immediately suspend or terminate an active award.
(ii) Debar or suspend an individual, department, or institution from participation in NASA programs for a specified period of time.
(iii) Prohibit participation of an individual as a NASA reviewer, advisor, or consultant for a specified period of time.
(b) In deciding what actions are appropriate when research misconduct is found, NASA officials should consider the seriousness of the misconduct, including, but not limited to:
(i) The degree to which the misconduct was knowing, intentional, or reckless;
(ii) Whether the misconduct was an isolated event or part of a pattern;
(iii) Whether the misconduct had a significant impact on the research record, research subjects, or other researchers, institutions, or the public welfare.
§ 1275.107
Adjudication.
(a) The NASA Adjudication Official must review and evaluate the investigation report and the evidentiary record required to be transmitted pursuant to § 1275.102(d) and (e). The NASA Adjudication Official may initiate further investigations, which may include affording the Respondent another opportunity for comment, before issuing a decision regarding the case. The NASA Adjudication Official may also return the investigation report to the OIG with a request for further fact-finding or analysis.
(b) Based on a preponderance of the evidence, the NASA Adjudication Official shall issue a decision setting forth the Agency's findings as to whether research misconduct has occurred and recommending appropriate administrative actions that may be undertaken by NASA in response to research misconduct determined to have occurred. The NASA Adjudication Official shall render a decision within 30 days after receiving the investigation report and evidentiary record, or after completion of any further proceedings. The NASA Adjudication Official may extend this period of time for good cause.
(c) The decision shall be sent to the Respondent, to the Respondent's institution, and, if appropriate, to the Complainant. If the decision confirms the alleged research misconduct, it must include instructions on how to pursue an appeal to the NASA Appeals Official. The decision shall also be transmitted to the NASA Office of the Chief Scientist and the OIG.
§ 1275.108
Appeals.
(a) The Respondent may appeal the decision of the NASA Adjudication Official by notifying the NASA Appeals Official in writing of the grounds for appeal within 30 days after Respondent's receipt of the decision. If the decision is not appealed within the 30-day period, the decision becomes the final Agency action insofar as the findings are concerned.
(b) The NASA Appeals Official shall inform the Respondent of a final determination within 30 days after receiving the appeal. The NASA Appeals Official may extend this period of time for good cause. The final determination may affirm, overturn, or modify the decision of the NASA Adjudication Official and shall constitute the final Agency action insofar as the findings are concerned. The final determination shall also be transmitted to the NASA Office of the Chief Scientist and the OIG.
(c) Once final Agency action has been taken pursuant to paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, the recommendations for administrative action shall be sent to the relevant NASA components for further proceedings in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Pt. 1275, App.

# Appendix to Part 1275—Research Misconduct

# NASA Research Disciplines and Respective Associated Directorates
1. Aeronautics Research—Aeronautics Research Mission Directorate
2. Space Science Research—Science Mission Directorate
3. Earth Science Research and Applications—Science Mission Directorate
4. Biomedical Research—Human Exploration and Operations Mission Directorate
5. Fundamental Biology—Human Exploration and Operations Mission Directorate
6. Fundamental Physics—Human Exploration and Operations Mission Directorate
7. Research for Exploration Systems not covered by the disciplines above—Human Exploration and Operations Mission Directorate
8. Research for the International Space Station not covered by the disciplines above—Human Exploration and Operations Mission Directorate
9. Other engineering research not covered by disciplines above—NASA Chief Engineer
10. Other technology research not covered by disciplines above—NASA Chief Technologist
[77 FR 44441, July 30, 2012]
PARTS 1276-1299 [RESERVED]
14 CFR Ch. VI (1-1-25 Edition)
Air Trans. System Stabilization

# CHAPTER VI—AIR TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM STABILIZATION

# SUBCHAPTER A—OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET
Part
Page
1300
Aviation disaster relief—Air Carrier Guarantee Loan Program
309

# SUBCHAPTER B—AIR TRANSPORTATION STABILIZATION BOARD
1310
Air Carrier Guarantee Loan Program administrative regulations and amendment or waiver of a term or condition of guaranteed loan
317
1311-1399
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER A—OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET
Pt. 1300

# PART 1300—AVIATION DISASTER RELIEF—AIR CARRIER GUARANTEE LOAN PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1300.1
Purpose.
1300.2
Definitions.
1300.3
Supplementary regulations of the Air Transportation Stabilization Board.

# Subpart B—Minimum Requirements and Application Procedures
1300.10
General standard for Board issuance of Federal credit instruments.
1300.11
Eligible borrower.
1300.12
Eligible lender.
1300.13
Guarantee amount.
1300.14
Guarantee percentage.
1300.15
Loan terms.
1300.16
Application process.
1300.17
Application evaluation.
1300.18
Issuance of the guarantee.
1300.19
Assignment or transfer of loans.
1300.20
Lender responsibilities.
1300.21
Guarantee.
1300.22
Termination of obligations.
1300.23
Participation in guaranteed loans.

# Authority:
Title I of Pub. L. 107-42, 115 Stat. 230 (49 U.S.C. 40101 note).

# Source:
66 FR 52272, Oct. 12, 2001, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1300.1
Purpose.
This part is issued by the Office of Management and Budget, (OMB) pursuant to Title I of the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act, Public Law 107-42, 115 Stat. 230 (“Act”). Specifically, Section 102(c)(2)(B) directs OMB to issue regulations setting forth procedures for application and minimum requirements for the issuance of Federal credit instruments under section 101(a)(1) of the Act.
§ 1300.2
Definitions.
(a)
Act
means the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act, Public Law 107-42, 115 Stat. 230 (49 U.S.C. 40101 note).
(b)
Administer, administering
and
administration,
mean the lender's actions in making, disbursing, servicing (including, but not limited to care, preservation and maintenance of collateral), monitoring, collecting, and liquidating a loan and security.
(c)
Agent
means that lender authorized to take such actions, exercise such powers, and perform such duties on behalf and in representation of all lenders party to a guarantee of a single loan, as is required by, or necessarily incidental to, the terms and conditions of the guarantee.
(d)
Air carrier
means an air carrier as defined in 49 U.S.C. 40102.
(e)
Applicant
means one or more air carriers applying for a Federal credit instrument issued by the Board under the program.
(f) The
Board,
for purposes of any operational and decisionmaking functions in connection with individual loan guarantees, means the voting members of the Air Transportation Stabilization Board established under Section 102 of the Act. The voting members of the Board are the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (who is the Chairman of the Board), the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Transportation, or their designees. The Comptroller General, who is a nonvoting member, will not participate in the review, operations, or deliberations of the Board in connection with individual loan guarantees, or otherwise participate in the Board's exercise of any executive power, but may provide such audit, evaluation and other support to the Board as the Board may request, consistent with applicable auditing standards.
(g)
Borrower
means an “Obligor,” as defined in Section 102(a)(4) of the Act, and includes an air carrier that is primarily liable for payment of the principal of and interest on a Federal credit instrument, which party may be a corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, or governmental entity, agency, or instrumentality.
(h)
Federal credit instrument,
as defined in Section 107(2) of the Act, means any guarantee or other pledge by the Board issued under the program to pledge the full faith and credit of
the United States to pay all or part of any of the principal of and interest on a loan issued by a borrower and funded by a lender.
(i)
Financial obligation,
as defined in Section 102(a)(2) of the Act, means any note, bond, debenture, or other debt obligation issued by a borrower in connection with financing under the program.
(j)
Guarantee
means the written agreement between the Board and one or more lenders, pursuant to which the Federal government guarantees repayment of a specified percentage of the principal of and/or interest on the loan. Unless otherwise specified, guarantee includes any other pledge issued under a Federal credit instrument.
(k)
Lender
means any non-Federal qualified institutional buyer, as defined in Section 102(a)(3) of the Act, that funds a financial obligation subject to a guarantee issued by the Board. With respect to a guarantee of a single loan to which more than one lender is a party, the term lender means agent.
(l)
Loan,
unless otherwise specified, includes any financial obligation (i.e., note, bond, debenture, or other debt obligation) issued by a borrower.
(m)
Loan documents
mean the loan agreement and all other instruments, and all documentation between the lender and the borrower evidencing the making, disbursing, securing, collecting, or otherwise administering of the loan. (References to loan documents also include comparable agreements, instruments, and documentation for other financial obligations for which a guarantee is requested or issued.)
(n)
Program
means the air carrier guarantee loan program established by section 101(a)(1) and the related provisions of Title I of the Act.
(o)
Security
means all property, real or personal, required by the provisions of the guarantee or by the loan documents to secure repayment of any indebtedness of the borrower under the loan documents or guarantee.
§ 1300.3
Supplementary regulations of the Air Transportation Stabilization Board.
(a) The regulations in this part are supplemented by the regulations of the Air Transportation Stabilization Board in part 1310 of this chapter in accordance with section 102(c)(2)(B) of the Act.
(b) This part and part 1310 of this chapter jointly govern the application procedures and the requirements for issuance of Federal credit instruments under section 101(a)(1) of the Act.
[67 FR 17258, Apr. 9, 2002]

# Subpart B—Minimum Requirements and Application Procedures
§ 1300.10
General standards for Board issuance of Federal credit instruments.
(a) In accordance with section 102(c)(1) of the Act, the Board may enter into agreements with one or more borrowers to issue Federal credit instruments only if the Board determines, in its discretion and in accordance with the minimum requirements set forth in this part, that—
(1) The borrower is an air carrier for which credit is not reasonably available at the time of the transaction;
(2) The intended obligation by the borrower is prudently incurred; and
(3) Such agreement is a necessary part of maintaining a safe, efficient, and viable commercial aviation system in the United States.
(b) In accordance with section 102(c)(2)(A) of the Act, the Board shall enter into an agreement to issue a Federal credit instrument in such form and on such terms and conditions and subject to such covenants, representations, warranties, and requirements (including requirements for audits) as the Board determines are appropriate for satisfying the requirements of this part and any supplemental requirements issued by the Board under section 102(c)(2)(B) of the Act.
(c) In accordance with section 102(d)(1) of the Act, in entering into
agreements to issue Federal credit instruments, the Board shall, to the extent feasible and practicable and in accordance with the requirements in this part, ensure that the Federal Government is compensated for the risk assumed in making guarantees.
(d) In accordance with Section 102(d)(2) of the Act, the Board is authorized to enter into contracts under which the Federal Government, contingent on the financial success of the air carrier, would participate in the gains of the air carrier or its security holders through the use of such instruments as warrants, stock options, common or preferred stock, or other appropriate equity instruments, except that the Board shall not accept an equity interest in an air carrier that gives the Federal Government voting rights.
(e) In accordance with Section 104(a) of the Act, the Board may only issue a Federal credit instrument to an air carrier after the air carrier enters into a legally binding agreement with the Board regarding certain employee compensation.
§ 1300.11
Eligible borrower.
(a) An eligible borrower must be an air carrier that can demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Board, that:
(1) It has incurred (or is incurring) losses as a result of the terrorist attacks on the United States that occurred on September 11, 2001, which may include losses due to the unavailability of credit or the decrease in demand for that air carrier's services;
(2) It is not under bankruptcy protection or receivership when the application is submitted or when the Board issues the guarantee, unless the guarantee and the underlying financial obligation is to be part of a bankruptcy court-certified reorganization plan;
(3) It has agreed to permit such audits and reviews prior to the issuance of a guarantee, as the Board may deem appropriate, by an independent auditor acceptable to the Board;
(4) It has agreed to permit such audits and reviews during the period the loan is outstanding and three years after payment in full of the guaranteed loan, as the Board may deem appropriate, by an independent auditor acceptable to the Board or by the Comptroller General;
(5) In conducting audits and reviews pursuant to paragraphs (a) (3) and (4) of this section, it has agreed to provide access to the officers and employees, books, records, accounts, documents, correspondence, and other information of the borrower, its subsidiaries, affiliates, financial advisers, consultants, and independent certified accountants that the Board or the Comptroller General consider necessary.
(b) Status as an eligible borrower under this section does not ensure that the Board will issue the guarantee sought or preclude the Board from declining to issue a guarantee.
§ 1300.12
Eligible lender.
(a) A lender eligible to receive a Federal credit instrument approved by the Board must be a non-Federal qualified institutional buyer as defined in Section 102(a)(3) of the Act.
(b) If more than one institution participates as a lender in a single loan for which a Federal credit instrument is requested, each one of the institutions on the application must meet the requirements to be an eligible lender. An application for a guarantee of a single loan, for which there is more than one lender, must identify one of the institutions to act as agent for all. This agent is responsible for administering the loan and shall have those duties and responsibilities required of an agent, as set forth in the guarantee.
(c) Each lender, irrespective of any indemnities or other agreements between the lenders and the agent, shall be bound by all actions, and/or failures to act, of the agent. The Board shall be entitled to rely upon such actions and/or failures to act of the agent as binding the lenders.
(d) Status as an eligible lender under this section does not assure that the Board will issue the guarantee sought, or otherwise preclude the Board from declining to issue a guarantee.
§ 1300.13
Guarantee amount.
(a) Under Section 101(a)(1) of the Act, the Board is authorized to enter into agreements to issue Federal credit instruments that, in the aggregate, do not exceed $10 billion.
(b) The loan amount guaranteed to a single air carrier may not exceed that amount that, in the Board's sole discretion, the air carrier (or its successor) needs in order for it to provide commercial air services.
§ 1300.14
Guarantee percentage.
A guarantee issued by the Board must be less than 100 percent of the amount of principal and accrued interest of the loan guaranteed.
§ 1300.15
Loan terms.
(a) A loan guaranteed under the program shall be due and payable in full no later than seven years from the date on which the first disbursement of the loan is made.
(b) Loans guaranteed under the program must bear a rate of interest determined by the Board to be reasonable. In determining the reasonableness of an interest rate, the Board shall consider the percentage of the guarantee, any collateral, other loan terms, and current average yields on outstanding obligations of the United States with maturity comparable to the term of the loan guaranteed. The Board may reject an application to guarantee a loan if it determines the interest rate on such loan to be unreasonable.
(c) An eligible lender may assess and collect from the borrower such other fees and costs associated with the application and origination of the loan as are reasonable and customary, taking into consideration the amount and complexity of the credit. The Board may take such other fees and costs into consideration when determining whether to offer a guarantee to the lender.
§ 1300.16
Application process.
(a) Applications are to be submitted by the borrower. Borrowers may submit applications to the Board any time after October 12, 2001 through June 28, 2002. All applications must be received by the Board no later than 5 p.m. EDT, June 28, 2002, in the Board's offices. Borrowers should submit an original application and four copies. Applications will not be accepted via facsimile machine transmission or electronic mail. No application will be accepted for review if it is not received by the Board on or before June 28, 2002.
(b) Applications shall contain the following:
(1) A completed Form “Application for Air Carrier Guaranteed Loan';
(2) All loan documents that will be signed by the lender and the borrower, if the application is approved, including all terms and conditions of, and security or additional security (if any), to assure the borrower's performance under, the loan;
(3) A certification by the borrower that the borrower meets each of the requirements of the program as set forth in the Act, the regulations in this part, and any supplemental requirements issued by the Board;
(4) A certification by the lender that the lender meets each of the requirements of the program as set forth in the Act, the regulations in this part, and any supplemental requirements issued by the Board, and that the lender will provide the loan under the terms outlined in the loan documents if the Board approves the requested guarantee;
(5) A statement that the borrower is not under bankruptcy protection or receivership when the application is submitted, unless the guarantee and the underlying financial obligation is to be part of a bankruptcy court-certified reorganization plan;
(6) Consolidated financial statements of the borrower for the previous five years that have been audited by an independent certified public accountant, including any associated notes, as well as any interim financial statements and associated notes for the current fiscal year;
(7) Copies of the financial evaluations and forecasts concerning the air carrier's air service operations that were prepared by or for the air carrier within the three months prior to September 11, 2001;
(8) The borrower's business plan on which the loan is based that includes the following:
(i) A description of how the loan fits within the borrower's business plan, the purposes for which the borrower will use the loan, and an analysis showing that the loan is prudently incurred. If loan funds are to be used to purchase
an existing firm (or the substantial assets of an existing firm), the business plan of the combined entity shall contain a discussion of the way in which any required regulatory or judicial approvals will be obtained, including antitrust approval for any proposed acquisition;
(ii) A discussion of a complete cost accounting and a range of revenue, operating cost, and credit assumptions;
(iii) A discussion of the financing plan on which the loan is based, showing that the operational needs of the borrower will be met during the term of the plan;
(iv) An analysis demonstrating that, at the time of the application, there is a reasonable assurance that the borrower will be able to repay the loan according to its terms, and a complete description of the operational and financial assumptions on which this demonstration is based;
(v) A discussion of the borrower's five-year history and five-year projection for revenue, cash flow, average realized prices, and average realized operating costs and a demonstration that the borrower will be able to continue operations if the requested guarantee is approved; and
(vi) If appropriate, a description of a plan to restructure the borrower's obligations, contracts, and costs. In preparing this description, the borrower shall jointly develop, with its existing secured and unsecured creditors, employees, or vendors, an agreed-upon plan to restructure the borrower's obligations, contracts and costs and incorporate this into the business plan submitted;
(9) A description of the losses that the borrower incurred (or is incurring) as a result of the terrorist attacks on the United States that occurred on September 11, 2001, including losses due to the unavailability of credit on reasonable terms or a decrease in demand for the air carrier's services;
(10) An analysis that demonstrates that the issuance of the guaranteed loan is a necessary part of maintaining a safe, efficient, and viable commercial aviation system in the United States and that credit is not reasonably available at the time of the transaction;
(11) A description of all security (if any) for the loan, including, as applicable, current appraisals of real and personal property, copies of any appropriate environmental site assessments, and current personal and corporate financial statements of any guarantors for the same period as required for the borrower. Appraisals of real property shall be prepared by State licensed or certified appraisers, and be consistent with the “Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice,” promulgated by the Appraisal Standards Board of the Appraisal Foundation. Financial statements of guarantors shall be prepared by independent certified public accountants;
(12) If appropriate, a description of the Federal government's ability to participate, contingent on the financial success of the borrower, in the gains of the borrower or its security holders through the use of such instruments as warrants, stock options, common or preferred stock, or other appropriate equity instruments; and
(13) Any other information requested by the Board.
(c) The collections of information in this section and elsewhere in this part that are subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
) have been approved by OMB and assigned control number 0348-0059. Under the Paperwork Reduction Act, an agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.
§ 1300.17
Application evaluation.
(a) Eligibility screening. Applications will be reviewed to determine whether the lender and borrower are eligible, the information required under § 1300.16(b) is complete, and the proposed loan complies with applicable statutes and regulations. The Board may at any time reject an application that does not meet these requirements.
(b) Evaluation criteria. Applications that are determined to be eligible pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be subject to a substantive review by the Board. In addition to the general standards for Board issuance of Federal credit instruments set forth in
§ 1300.10, the Board shall consider the following evaluation factors:
(1) Reasonable assurance that the borrower will be able to repay the loan by the date specified in the loan document, which shall be no later than seven years from the date on which the first disbursement of the loan is made;
(2) The adequacy of the proposed provisions to protect the Federal Government, including sufficiency of any security provided by the borrower and the percentage of guarantee requested;
(3) The ability of the lender to administer the loan in full compliance with the requisite standard of care. In making this determination, the Board will assess:
(i) The lender's level of regulatory capital, in the case of banking institutions, or net worth, in the case of other institutions;
(ii) Whether the lender possesses the ability to administer the loan, including its experience with loans to air carriers; and
(iii) Any other matter the Board deems material to its assessment of the lender; and
(4) The ability of the borrower to demonstrate, to the Board's satisfaction, one or more of the following criteria. The Board shall give preference to applications that satisfy one or more of these criteria, giving greater preference to those applications that meet the greatest number of these criteria, as follows:
(i) A demonstration that the air carrier has presented a plan demonstrating that its business plan is financially sound;
(ii) A demonstration of greater participation in the loan by non-Federal entities;
(iii) A demonstration of greater participation in the loan by private entities, as opposed to public non-Federal entities;
(iv) A demonstration that the proposed instruments would ensure that the Federal Government will, contingent on the financial success of the air carrier, participate in the gains of the air carrier and its security holders;
(v) A demonstration of concessions by the air carrier's security holders, other creditors, or employees that will improve the financial condition of the air carrier in a manner that will enable it to repay the loan in accordance with its terms and provide commercial air services on a financially sound basis after repayment;
(vi) A demonstration that guaranteed loan proceeds will be used for a purpose other than the payment or refinancing of existing debt;
(vii) A demonstration that the proposed instruments contain financial structures that minimize the Federal government's risk and cost associated with making loan guarantees. Examples include, but are not limited to, requests for guarantees that contain the following:
(A) A maturity period that is less than the maximum permitted under the rules in this part;
(B) Pledges of collateral;
(C) Agreements by the borrower's parent or other entities to reimburse the Federal government for any payments that the Federal government may make under the guarantee;
(D) A grant to the Federal government of favorable priority in the event of bankruptcy reflecting other creditors' agreement to subordinate their debts as a condition of the loan guarantee;
(E) Limitation of the borrower's issuance of dividends and/or the borrower's payments to its parent or subsidiaries or related companies;
(F) Limitation of the borrower's ability to incur additional debt, and/or the borrower's ability to incur capital expenditures, beyond that set forth in the business and financial plans that the Borrower submitted with the application;
(G) A demonstration of reasonable liquidity;
(H) A demonstration of favorable debt ratios; and
(I) A demonstration that any proceeds raised from private sector financing subsequent to disbursement of the federally guaranteed loan be used to repay the federally guaranteed loan.
(c) No guarantee will be made if either the borrower or lender has an outstanding delinquent Federal debt, including tax liabilities, until:
(1) The delinquent debt has been paid in full;
(2) A negotiated repayment schedule is established; or
(3) Other arrangements, satisfactory to the agency responsible for collecting the debt are made.
(d) Decisions by the Board. The Board shall approve or deny applications received on or before June 28, 2002, in a timely manner as such applications are received. The Board may limit the amount of a loan guarantee made to initial applicants to ensure that sufficient funds remain available for subsequent applicants. The Board shall notify the borrower in writing of the approval or denial of an application. Approvals for loan guarantees shall be conditioned upon compliance with § 1300.18.
§ 1300.18
Issuance of the guarantee.
(a) The Board's decisions to approve any application for a guarantee under § 1300.17 is conditioned upon:
(1) The lender and borrower obtaining any required regulatory or judicial approvals;
(2) Evidence showing, to the Board's satisfaction, that the lender and borrower are legally authorized to enter into the loan under the terms and conditions submitted to the Board in the application;
(3) The Board's receipt of the loan documents and any related instruments, in form and substance satisfactory to the Board, and the guarantee, all properly executed by the lender, borrower, and any other required party other than the Board; and
(4) No material adverse change in the borrower's ability to repay the loan or any of the representations and warranties made in the application between the date of the Board's approval and the date the guarantee is to be issued.
(b) The Board may withdraw its approval of an application and rescind its offer of guarantee if the Board determines that the lender or the borrower cannot, or is unwilling to, provide adequate documentation and proof of compliance with paragraph (a) of this section within the time provided for in the offer.
(c) Only after receipt of all the documentation required by this section, will the Board sign and deliver the guarantee.
(d) A borrower receiving a loan guaranteed by the Board under this program shall pay an annual fee, in an amount and payable as determined by the Board. At the time that the guarantee is issued, the Board shall ensure that this annual fee will escalate for each year that the loan is outstanding and that such annual escalation reflects the borrower's potential ability to obtain credit in the private credit markets, in addition to any other factors the Board may deem appropriate.
§ 1300.19
Assignment or transfer of loans.
Neither the loan documents nor the guarantee of the Board, or any interest therein, may be modified, assigned, conveyed, sold or otherwise transferred by the lender, in whole or in part, without the prior written approval of the Board.
§ 1300.20
Lender responsibilities.
The lender shall have such obligations and duties to the Board as are set forth in the guarantee.
§ 1300.21
Guarantee.
The Board shall adopt a form of guarantee to be used by the Board under the program. Modifications to the provisions of the form of guarantee must be approved and adopted by the Board.
§ 1300.22
Termination of obligations.
The Board shall have such rights to terminate the guarantee as are set forth in the guarantee.
§ 1300.23
Participation in guaranteed loans.
(a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this section, a lender may distribute the risk of a portion of a loan guaranteed under the program by sale of participations therein if:
(1) Neither the loan note nor the guarantee is assigned, conveyed, sold, or transferred in whole or in part;
(2) The lender remains solely responsible for the administration of the loan; and
(3) The Board's ability to assert any and all defenses available to it under the guarantee and the law is not adversely affected.
(b) The following categories of entities may purchase participations in loans guaranteed under the program:
(1) Eligible lenders;
(2) Private investment funds and insurance companies that do not usually invest in commercial loans;
(3) Air Carrier company suppliers or customers, who are interested in participating as a means of commencing or solidifying the supplier or customer relationship with the borrower; or
(4) Any other entity approved by the Board on a case-by-case basis.

# SUBCHAPTER B—AIR TRANSPORTATION STABILIZATION BOARD
Pt. 1310

# PART 1310—AIR CARRIER GUARANTEE LOAN PROGRAM ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS AND AMENDMENT OR WAIVER OF A TERM OR CONDITION OF GUARANTEED LOAN
Sec.
1310.1
Purpose and scope.
1310.2
Composition of the Board.
1310.3
Authority of the Board.
1310.4
Offices.
1310.5
Meetings and actions of the Board.
1310.6
Staff.
1310.7
Communications with the Board.
1310.8
Freedom of Information Act.
1310.9
Restrictions on lobbying.
1310.10
Government-wide debarment and suspension.
1310.11
Regulations of the Office of Management and Budget.
1310.15
Amendment or Waiver of a term or condition of a guaranteed loan.
1310.20
Amendments.

# Authority:
Title I of Pub. L. 107-42, 115 Stat. 230 (49 U.S.C. 40101 note).

# Source:
67 FR 17259, Apr. 9, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1310.1
Purpose and scope.
This part is issued by the Air Transportation Stabilization Board pursuant to Section 102(c)(2)(B) of the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act, Public Law 107-42, 115 Stat. 230 (Act). This part describes the Board's authorities, organizational structure, the rules by which the Board takes actions, and procedures for public access to Board records.
§ 1310.2
Composition of the Board.
The Board consists of the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or the designee of the Chairman, who acts as Chairman of the Board, the Secretary of the Treasury or the designee of the Secretary, the Secretary of Transportation or the designee of the Secretary, and the Comptroller General of the United States or the designee of the Comptroller General, who serves as a nonvoting member. The Comptroller General of the United States or the designee of the Comptroller General, who serves as a nonvoting member, shall not be involved in any of the Board's discussions or deliberations in connection with individual loan guarantee applications.
§ 1310.3
Authority of the Board.
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, the Board is authorized to guarantee loans provided to airlines by eligible lenders in accordance with the procedures, rules, and regulations established by the Board, to make the determinations authorized by the Act, and to take such other actions as necessary to carry out its functions specified in the Act.
§ 1310.4
Offices.
The principal offices of the Board are at 1120 Vermont Avenue, NW., Suite 970, Washington, DC 20005.
§ 1310.5
Meetings and actions of the Board.
(a)
Place and frequency.
The Board meets, on the call of the Chairman, in order to consider matters requiring action by the Board. The time and place for any such meeting shall be determined by the members of the Board.
(b)
Quorum and voting.
Two voting members of the Board constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. All decisions and determinations of the Board shall be made by a majority vote of the voting members. All votes on determinations of the Board required by the Act shall be recorded in the minutes. A Board member may request that any vote be recorded according to individual Board members.
(c)
Agenda of meetings.
As a general rule, an agenda for each meeting shall be distributed to members of the Board at least 48 hours in advance of the date of the meeting, together with copies of materials relevant to the agenda items.
(d)
Minutes.
The Chief Administrative Officer shall keep minutes of each Board meeting and of action taken without a meeting, a draft of which is to be distributed to each member of the
Board as soon as practicable after each meeting or action. To the extent practicable, the minutes of a Board meeting shall be corrected and approved at the next meeting of the Board.
(e)
Use of conference call communications equipment.
Any member may participate in a meeting of the Board through the use of conference call, telephone or similar communications equipment, by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can simultaneously speak to and hear each other. Any member so participating in a meeting shall be deemed present for all purposes, except that the Comptroller General of the United States or the designee of the Comptroller General, who serves as a nonvoting member, shall not participate in any of the Board's discussions or deliberations in connection with individual loan guarantee applications. Actions taken by the Board at meetings conducted through the use of such equipment, including the votes of each member, shall be recorded in the usual manner in the minutes of the meetings of the Board.
(f)
Actions between meetings.
When, in the judgment of the Chairman, it is desirable for the Board to consider action without holding a meeting, the relevant information and recommendations for action may be transmitted to the members by the Chief Administrative Officer and the voting members may communicate their votes to the Chairman in writing (including an action signed in counterpart by each Board member), electronically, or orally (including telephone communication). Any action taken under this paragraph has the same effect as an action taken at a meeting. Any such action shall be recorded in the minutes. If a voting member believes the matter should be considered at a meeting, the member may so notify the Chief Administrative Officer and the matter will be scheduled for consideration at a meeting.
(g)
Delegations of authority.
The Board may delegate authority, subject to such terms and conditions as the Board deems appropriate, to the Executive Director, the Legal Counsel, or the Chief Administrative Officer, to take certain actions not required by the Act to be taken by the Board. All delegations shall be made pursuant to resolutions of the Board and recorded in writing, whether in the minutes of a meeting or otherwise. Any action taken pursuant to delegated authority has the effect of an action taken by the Board.
§ 1310.6
Staff.
(a)
Executive Director.
The Executive Director advises and assists the Board in carrying out its responsibilities under the Act, provides general direction with respect to the administration of the Board's actions, directs the activities of the staff, and performs such other duties as the Board may require.
(b)
Legal Counsel.
The Legal Counsel provides legal advice relating to the responsibilities of the Board and performs such other duties as the Executive Director may require.
(c)
Chief Administrative Officer.
The Chief Administrative Officer sends notice of all meetings, prepares minutes of all meetings, maintains a complete record of all votes and actions taken by the Board, has custody of all records of the Board and performs such other duties as the Executive Director may require.
§ 1310.7
Communications with the Board.
Communications with the Board shall be conducted through the staff of the Board.
§ 1310.8
Freedom of Information Act.
While the Board is not part of the Department of the Treasury, the Board follows the regulations promulgated by the Department of the Treasury at subpart A (“Freedom of Information Act”) of part 1 (“Disclosure of Records”) of title 31 (“Money and Finance: Treasury”) of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR). The procedures of 31 CFR 1.1 through 1.7 shall be followed for requesting access to records maintained by the Board, and processing such requests. Any reference in 31 CFR 1.1 through 1.7 to the “Department of the Treasury,” the “Department” or to a “bureau,” shall be construed to refer to the Board. In the event that the regulations at subpart A of part 1 of title 31 of the CFR subsequently are amended
by the Department of the Treasury, the Board will follow those amended regulations. The following additional information is provided to implement 31 CFR 1.1 through 1.7 with respect to the Board.
(a)
Public reading room.
The public reading room for the Board is the Treasury Department Library. The Library is located in the Main Treasury Building, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220. For building security purposes, visitors are required to make an appointment by calling 202-622-0990.
(b)
Requests for records.
Initial determinations under 31 CFR 1.5(h) as to whether to grant requests for records of the Board will be made by the Chief Administrative Officer or the designate of such official. Requests for records should be addressed to: Freedom of Information Request, Air Transportation Stabilization Board, Assistant Director, Disclosure Services, Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220.
(c)
Administrative appeal of initial determination to deny records.
(1) Appellate determinations under 31 CFR 1.5(i) with respect to records of the Board will be made by the Executive Director, or the delegate of such official.
(2) Appellate determinations with respect to requests for expedited processing shall be made by the Executive Director or the delegate of such official.
(3) Appeals should be addressed to: Freedom of Information Appeal, Air Transportation Stabilization Board, Assistant Director, Disclosure Services, Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220.
(d)
Delivery of process.
Service of process will be received by the Legal Counsel of the Board or the delegate of such official and shall be delivered to the following location: Legal Counsel, Air Transportation Stabilization Board, 1120 Vermont Avenue, NW., Suite 970, Washington, DC 20005.
§ 1310.9
Restrictions on lobbying.
(a) While the Board is not part of the Department of the Treasury, the regulations promulgated by the Department of the Treasury at part 21 (“New Restrictions on Lobbying”) of title 31 (“Money and Finance: Treasury”) of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), including the appendices thereto, are applicable in connection with any of the following covered Federal actions: the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement. The regulations promulgated by the Department of the Treasury at 31 CFR part 21 also are applicable to a request for, or receipt of, any Federal contract, grant, loan or cooperative agreement; and to a request for, or receipt of, a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan. These terms are defined in 31 CFR 21.105.
(b) In the event that the regulations at part 21 of title 31 of the CFR subsequently are amended by the Department of the Treasury, the Board will follow those amended regulations.
§ 1310.10
Governmentwide debarment and suspension.
While the Board is not part of the Department of the Treasury, the regulations promulgated by the Department of the Treasury at subpart A (“General”), subpart B (“Effect of Action”), subpart C (“Debarment”), subpart D (“Suspension”), and subpart E (“Responsibilities of GSA, Agency and Participants”) of part 19 (“Governmentwide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement) and Governmentwide Requirements For Drug-Free Workplace (Grants)”) of title 31 (“Money and Finance: Treasury”) of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) are applicable to the Board. Any reference in 31 CFR part 19 to the “Department of the Treasury” or the “Department” shall be construed to refer to the Board. In the event that the regulations at subpart A, B, C, D or E of part 19 of title 31 of the CFR subsequently are amended by the Department of the Treasury, the Board will follow those amended regulations.
§ 1310.11
Regulations of the Office of Management and Budget.
(a) The regulations in this part supplement the regulations of the Office of Management and Budget in part 1300 of this chapter in accordance with section 102(c)(2)(B) of the Act.
(b) This part and part 1300 of this chapter jointly govern the application procedures and the requirements for issuance of Federal credit instruments under section 101(a)(1) of the Act.
§ 1310.15
Amendment or Waiver of a term or condition of a guaranteed loan.
The Board may, in its discretion, charge the borrower a fee, in an amount and payable as determined by the Board, for each amendment to, or waiver of, any term or condition of any guaranteed loan document or related instrument approved by the Board.
[70 FR 10037, Mar. 2, 2005]
§ 1310.20
Amendments.
The procedures in this part may be adopted or amended, or new procedures may be adopted, only by majority vote of the Board. Authority to adopt or amend these procedures may not be delegated.
PARTS 1311-1399 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
(Parts 103-001—104-099) [Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
14 CFR (1-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
14 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter V
1204.300—1204.313 (Subpart 3) Added
16542
1221.100 Revised; eff. 1-11-21
71828
1221.103 Revised; eff. 1-11-21
71828
1221.104 Revised; eff. 1-11-21
71829
1221.107 Revised; eff. 1-11-21
71830
1221.108 Revised; eff. 1-11-21
71830
1221.109 Revised; eff. 1-11-21
71830
1221.110 (c)(4) revised; eff. 1-11-21
71831
1221.111 Revised; eff. 1-11-21
71831
1221.112 (a) revised; eff. 1-11-21
71831
1221.113 (b) revised; eff. 1-11-21
71831
1221.114 (a) revised; eff. 1-11-21
71831
1241 Added; interim
15357
1241 Regulation at 85 FR 15357 confirmed
73410
1264.102 Nomenclature change
16546
1271.400 (a), (b), and (e) amended
16546
1271 Appendix A amended
16546
1274 Removed; eff. 1-15-21
72919
2021
14 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter V
1204.300—1204.313 (Subpart 3) Removed
43413
1204.1401 (a)(1), (3), and (4) removed; (b) through (g) redesignated as (c) through (h); new (b) added
50624
1204.1403 (a), (c), and (d) removed; (e) and (f) revised
50624
1204.1404 (a)(1) and (3) removed
50625
1204.1405 (c) revised
50625
1215.103 Nomenclature change; eff. 1-3-22
60566
1215.108 Nomenclature change; eff. 1-3-22
60566
1215.109 Nomenclature change; eff. 1-3-22
60566
1264.102 Nomenclature change
14245
1271.400 (a), (b), and (e) amended
14245
1271 Appendix A amended
14245
2022
14 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter V
1212 Authority citation revised
71240
1212.604 (c) added
71240
1264.102 Amended
23108
1271.400 (a), (b), and (e) amended
23108
1271 Appendix A amended
23108
2023
14 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter V
1204.501 (a) introductory text, (2)(i), (ii), (iv), and (v) amended
42871
1204.501 Correction: (a) introductory text amended
44675
1204.501 Regulation at 88 FR 42871 withdrawn
50765
1204.503 Revised
42871
1204.503 Regulation at 88 FR 42871 withdrawn
50765
1204.504 Revised
42872
1204.504 Regulation at 88 FR 42872 withdrawn
50765
1212.201 Revised
12148
1212.202 Revised
12148
1212.204 (b) amended
12149
1212.205 (b) amended
12149
1212.400 (b), (c)(1), and (e) amended
12149
1212.500 (b) amended
12149
1212.501 (c) added
12149
1212.701 Heading and introductory text
1212.705 (a)(3) amended
12149
1264.102 Undesignated paragraph following (a)(1)(iv) and undesignated paragraph following (b)(1)(ii) amended
24906
1271.400 (a), (b), and (e) amended
24906
1271 Appendix A amended
24906
2024
14 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter V
1204.500—1204.509 (Subpart 5) Authority citation revised
26758
1204.501 (a) introductory text, (2)(i), (ii), (iv), and (v) amended
26758
1204.503 Revised
26758
1204.504 Revised
26759
1216 Authority citation added
25499
1216.300—1216.311 (Subpart 1216.3) Authority citation revised
25499
1216.300 (b) revised
25499
1216.302 Revised
25499
1216.303 Revised
25500
1216.304 (a), (b), (c) introductory text, (1), (3) through (6), (d) introductory text, (1)(ii), (iv) through (vi), (2)(i) through (iii), (v), (3), (4)(ii) through (iv), (5)(i), (ii), and (e) revised; (c)(7) and (f) removed; (d)(1)(ix), (2)(vi) through (ix), (4)(vi), and (vii) added
25500
1216.305 Revised
25502
1216.306 Revised
25502
1216.307 Revised
25502
1216.308 Revised
25502
1216.309 Revised
25502
1216.310 (a) revised
25502
1216.311 Revised
25503
1216.300—1216.311 (Subpart 1216.3) Appendix A revised
25503
1264.102 Nomenclature change
20107
1271.400 (a) and (b) amended
20107
1271 Appendix A amended
20107
○
