A global systemically important BHC's maximum external TLAC leverage payout amount for the current calendar quarter is equal to the global systemically important BHC's eligible retained income, multiplied by the applicable maximum TLAC leverage payout ratio, as set forth in Table 2 to § 252.63.
(3)
Calculation of the external TLAC risk-weighted buffer level.
(i) A global systemically important BHC's external TLAC risk-weighted buffer level is equal to the global systemically important BHC's common equity tier 1 capital ratio (expressed as a percentage) minus the greater of zero and the following amount:
(A) 18 percent; minus
(B) The ratio (expressed as a percentage) of the global systemically important BHC's additional tier 1 capital (excluding any tier 1 minority interest) to its total risk-weighted assets; and minus
(C) The ratio (expressed as a percentage) of the global systemically important BHC's outstanding eligible external long-term debt amount plus 50 percent of the amount of unpaid principal of outstanding eligible debt securities issued by the global systemically important BHC due to be paid in, as calculated in § 252.62(b)(2), greater than or equal to 365 days (one year) but less than 730 days (two years) to total risk-weighted assets.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, if the ratio (expressed as a percentage) of a global systemically important BHC's external total loss-absorbing capacity amount as calculated under paragraph (b) of this section to its risk-weighted assets is less than or equal to 18 percent, the global systemically important BHC's external TLAC risk-weighted buffer level is zero.
(4)
Limits on distributions and discretionary bonus payments.
(i) A global systemically important BHC shall not make distributions or discretionary
bonus payments or create an obligation to make such distributions or payments during the current calendar quarter that, in the aggregate, exceed the maximum external TLAC risk-weighted payout amount or the maximum external TLAC leverage payout amount.
(ii) A global systemically important BHC with an external TLAC risk-weighted buffer level that is greater than the external TLAC risk-weighted buffer and an external TLAC leverage buffer that is greater than 2.0 percent, in accordance with paragraph (c)(5) of this section, is not subject to a maximum external TLAC risk-weighted payout amount or a maximum external TLAC leverage payout amount.
(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section, a global systemically important BHC may not make distributions or discretionary bonus payments during the current calendar quarter if the global systemically important BHC's:
(A) Eligible retained income is negative; and
(B) External TLAC risk-weighted buffer level was less than the external TLAC risk-weighted buffer as of the end of the previous calendar quarter or external TLAC leverage buffer level was less than 2.0 percent as of the end of the previous calendar quarter.
(iv) Notwithstanding the limitations in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section, the Board may permit a global systemically important BHC to make a distribution or discretionary bonus payment upon a request of the global systemically important BHC, if the Board determines that the distribution or discretionary bonus payment would not be contrary to the purposes of this section, or to the safety and soundness of the global systemically important BHC. In making such a determination, the Board will consider the nature and extent of the request and the particular circumstances giving rise to the request.
(v)(A) A global systemically important BHC is subject to the lowest of the maximum payout amounts as determined under 12 CFR 217.11(a)(2), the maximum external TLAC risk-weighted payout amount as determined under this paragraph, and the maximum external TLAC leverage payout amount as determined under this paragraph.
(B) Additional limitations on distributions may apply to a global systemically important BHC under 12 CFR 225.4, 225.8, and 263.202.
(5)
External TLAC leverage buffer
—(i)
General.
A global systemically important BHC is subject to the lower of the maximum external TLAC risk-weighted payout amount as determined under paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section and the maximum external TLAC leverage payout amount as determined under paragraph (c)(2)(v) of this section.
(ii)
Composition of the external TLAC leverage buffer.
The external TLAC leverage buffer is composed solely of tier 1 capital.
(iii)
Calculation of the external TLAC leverage buffer level.
(A) A global systemically important BHC's external TLAC leverage buffer level is equal to the global systemically important BHC's supplementary leverage ratio (expressed as a percentage) minus the greater of zero and the following amount:
(
1
) 7.5 percent; minus
(
2
) The ratio (expressed as a percentage) of the global systemically important BHC's outstanding eligible external long-term debt amount plus 50 percent of the amount of unpaid principal of outstanding eligible debt securities issued by the global systemically important BHC due to be paid in in, as calculated in § 252.62(b)(2), greater than or equal to 365 days (one year) but less than 730 days (two years) to total leverage exposure.
(B) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section, if the ratio (expressed as a percentage) of a global systemically important BHC's external total loss-absorbing capacity amount as calculated under paragraph (b) of this section to its total leverage exposure is less than or equal to 7.5 percent, the global systemically important BHC's external TLAC leverage buffer level is zero.
Table 1 to § 252.63—Calculation of Maximum External TLAC Risk-Weighted Payout Amount
External TLAC risk-weighted buffer level
Maximum External TLAC risk-weighted payout ratio
(as a percentage of eligible
retained income)
Greater than the external TLAC risk-weighted buffer
No payout ratio limitation applies.
Less than or equal to the external TLAC risk-weighted buffer,
and
greater than 75 percent of the external TLAC risk-weighted buffer
60 percent.
Less than or equal to 75 percent of the external TLAC risk-weighted buffer,
and
greater than 50 percent of the external TLAC risk-weighted buffer
40 percent.
Less than or equal to 50 percent of the external TLAC risk-weighted buffer,
and
greater 25 percent of the external TLAC risk-weighted buffer
20 percent.
Less than or equal to 25 percent of the external TLAC risk-weighted buffer
0 percent.
Table 2 to § 252.63—Calculation of Maximum External TLAC Leverage Payout Amount
External TLAC leverage buffer level
Maximum External TLAC leverage payout ratio
(as a percentage of eligible retained income)
Greater than 2.0 percent
No payout ratio limitation applies.
Less than or equal to 2.0 percent, and greater than 1.5 percent
60 percent.
Less than or equal to 1.5 percent, and greater than 1.0 percent
40 percent.
Less than or equal to 1.0 percent, and greater than 0.5 percent
20 percent.
Less than or equal to 0.5 percent
0 percent.
[82 FR 8306, Jan. 24, 2017, as amended at 85 FR 17006, Mar. 26, 2020; 86 FR 738, Jan. 6, 2021]
§ 252.64
Restrictions on corporate practices of U.S. global systemically important banking organizations.
(a)
Prohibited corporate practices.
A global systemically important BHC may not directly:
(1) Issue any debt instrument with an original maturity of less than 365 days (one year), including short term deposits and demand deposits, to any person, unless the person is a subsidiary of the global systemically important BHC;
(2) Issue any instrument, or enter into any related contract, with respect to which the holder of the instrument has a contractual right to offset debt owed by the holder or its affiliates to a subsidiary of the global systemically important BHC against the amount, or a portion of the amount, owed by the global systemically important BHC under the instrument;
(3) Enter into a qualified financial contract that is not a credit enhancement with a person that is not a subsidiary of the global systemically important BHC;
(4) Enter into an agreement in which the global systemically important BHC guarantees a liability of a subsidiary of the global systemically important BHC if such liability permits the exercise of a default right that is related, directly or indirectly, to the global systemically important BHC becoming subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding other than a receivership proceeding under Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5381 through 5394) unless the liability is subject to requirements of the Board restricting such default rights or subject to any similar requirements of another U.S. federal banking agency; or
(5) Enter into, or otherwise begin to benefit from, any agreement that provides for its liabilities to be guaranteed by any of its subsidiaries.
(b)
Limit on unrelated liabilities.
(1) The aggregate amount, on an unconsolidated basis, of unrelated liabilities of a global systemically important BHC owed to persons that are not affiliates of the global systemically important BHC may not exceed 5 percent of the systemically important BHC's external total loss-absorbing capacity amount, as calculated under § 252.63(b).
(2) For purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, an unrelated liability is any non-contingent liability of the global systemically important BHC owed to a person that is not an affiliate of the global systemically important BHC other than:
(i) The instruments that are used to satisfy the global systemically important BHC's external total loss-absorbing capacity amount, as calculated under § 252.63(b);
(ii) Any dividend or other liability arising from the instruments that are
used to satisfy the global systemically important BHC's external total loss-absorbing capacity amount, as calculated under § 252.63(b);
(iii) An eligible debt security that does not provide the holder of the instrument with a currently exercisable right to require immediate payment of the total or remaining principal amount; and
(iv) A secured liability, to the extent that it is secured, or a liability that otherwise represents a claim that would be senior to eligible debt securities in Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5390(b)) and the Bankruptcy Code (11 U.S.C. 507).
(c) A Covered BHC is not subject to paragraph (b) of this section if all of the eligible debt securities issued by the Covered BHC would represent the most subordinated debt claim in a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding of the Covered BHC.
§ 252.65
Disclosure requirements.
(a) A global systemically important BHC must publicly disclose a description of the financial consequences to unsecured debtholders of the global systemically important BHC entering into a resolution proceeding in which the global systemically important BHC is the only entity that would be subject to the resolution proceeding.
(b) A global systemically important BHC must provide the disclosure required by paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) In the offering documents for all of its eligible debt securities; and
(2) Either:
(i) On the global systemically important BHC's Web site; or
(ii) In more than one public financial report or other public regulatory reports, provided that the global systemically important BHC publicly provides a summary table specifically indicating the location(s) of this disclosure.

# Subpart H—Single-Counterparty Credit Limits

# Source:
83 FR 38493, Aug. 6, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
§ 252.70
Applicability and general provisions.
(a)
In general.
(1) This subpart establishes single counterparty credit limits for a covered company.
(2) For purposes of this subpart:
(i)
Covered company
means:
(A) A global systemically important BHC;
(B) A Category II bank holding company; and
(C) A Category III bank holding company;
(ii)
Major covered company
means any covered company that is a global systemically important BHC.
(b)
Credit exposure limits.
(1) Section 252.72 establishes credit exposure limits for a covered company and a major covered company.
(2) A covered company is required to calculate its aggregate net credit exposure, gross credit exposure, and net credit exposure to a counterparty using the methods in this subpart.
(c)
Applicability of this subpart.
(1)(i) A company that is a covered company as of October 5, 2018, must comply with the requirements of this subpart, including but not limited to § 252.72, beginning on July 1, 2020, unless that time is extended by the Board in writing.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, a company that is a major covered company as of October 5, 2018, must comply with the requirements of this subpart, including but not limited to § 252.72, beginning on January 1, 2020, unless that time is extended by the Board in writing.
(2) A covered company that becomes subject to this subpart after October 5, 2018 must comply with the requirements of this subpart beginning on the first day of the ninth calendar quarter after it becomes a covered company, unless that time is accelerated or extended by the Board in writing.
(d)
Cessation of requirements.
(1) Any company that becomes a covered company will remain subject to the requirements of this subpart unless and until:
(i) The covered company is not a global systemically important BHC;
(ii) The covered company is not a Category II bank holding company; and
(iii) The covered company is not a Category III bank holding company.
(2) A covered company that has ceased to be a major covered company for purposes of § 252.72(b) is no longer subject to the requirements of § 252.72(b) beginning on the first day of the calendar quarter following the reporting date on which it ceased to be a major covered company; provided that the covered company remains subject to the requirements of this subpart, unless it ceases to be a covered company pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
[83 FR 38493, Aug. 6, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 59109, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.71
Definitions.
Unless defined in this section, terms that are set forth in § 252.2 of this part and used in this subpart have the definitions assigned in § 252.2. For purposes of this subpart:
(a)
Adjusted market value
means:
(1) With respect to the value of cash, securities, or other eligible collateral transferred by the covered company to a counterparty, the sum of:
(i) The market value of the cash, securities, or other eligible collateral; and
(ii) The product of the market value of the securities or other eligible collateral multiplied by the applicable collateral haircut in Table 1 to § 217.132 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.132); and
(2) With respect to cash, securities, or other eligible collateral received by the covered company from a counterparty:
(i) The market value of the cash, securities, or other eligible collateral; minus
(ii) The market value of the securities or other eligible collateral multiplied by the applicable collateral haircut in Table 1 to § 217.132 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.132).
(3) Prior to calculating the adjusted market value pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, with regard to a transaction that meets the definition of “repo-style transaction” in § 217.2 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.2), the covered company would first multiply the applicable collateral haircuts in Table 1 to § 217.132 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.132) by the square root of
1/2
.
(b)
Affiliate
means, with respect to a company:
(1) Any subsidiary of the company and any other company that is consolidated with the company under applicable accounting standards; or
(2) For a company that is not subject to principles or standards referenced in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, any subsidiary of the company and any other company that would be consolidated with the company, if consolidation would have occurred if such principles or standards had applied.
(c)
Aggregate net credit exposure
means the sum of all net credit exposures of a covered company and all of its subsidiaries to a single counterparty as calculated under this subpart.
(d)
Bank-eligible investments
means investment securities that a national bank is permitted to purchase, sell, deal in, underwrite, and hold under 12 U.S.C. 24 (Seventh) and 12 CFR part 1.
(e)
Counterparty
means, with respect to a credit transaction:
(1) With respect to a natural person, the natural person, and, if the credit exposure of the covered company to such natural person exceeds 5 percent of the covered company's tier 1 capital, the natural person and members of the person's immediate family collectively;
(2) With respect to any company that is not a subsidiary of the covered company, the company and its affiliates collectively;
(3) With respect to a State, the State and all of its agencies, instrumentalities, and political subdivisions (including any municipalities) collectively;
(4) With respect to a foreign sovereign entity that is not assigned a zero percent risk weight under the standardized approach in the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR part 217, subpart D), the foreign sovereign entity and all of its agencies and instrumentalities (but not including any political subdivision) collectively; and
(5) With respect to a political subdivision of a foreign sovereign entity such as a state, province, or municipality, any political subdivision of the foreign sovereign entity and all of such
political subdivision's agencies and instrumentalities, collectively.
1
1
In addition, under § 252.76, under certain circumstances, a covered company is required to aggregate its net credit exposure to one or more counterparties for all purposes under this subpart.
(f)
Covered company
is defined in § 252.70(a)(2)(i) of this subpart.
(g)
Credit derivative
has the same meaning as in § 217.2 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.2).
(h)
Credit transaction
means, with respect to a counterparty:
(1) Any extension of credit to the counterparty, including loans, deposits, and lines of credit, but excluding uncommitted lines of credit;
(2) Any repurchase agreement or reverse repurchase agreement with the counterparty;
(3) Any securities lending or securities borrowing transaction with the counterparty;
(4) Any guarantee, acceptance, or letter of credit (including any endorsement, confirmed letter of credit, or standby letter of credit) issued on behalf of the counterparty;
(5) Any purchase of securities issued by or other investment in the counterparty;
(6) Any credit exposure to the counterparty in connection with a derivative transaction between the covered company and the counterparty;
(7) Any credit exposure to the counterparty in connection with a credit derivative or equity derivative between the covered company and a third party, the reference asset of which is an obligation or equity security of, or equity investment in, the counterparty; and
(8) Any transaction that is the functional equivalent of the above, and any other similar transaction that the Board, by regulation or order, determines to be a credit transaction for purposes of this subpart.
(i)
Depository institution
has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)).
(j)
Derivative transaction
means any transaction that is a contract, agreement, swap, warrant, note, or option that is based, in whole or in part, on the value of, any interest in, or any quantitative measure or the occurrence of any event relating to, one or more commodities, securities, currencies, interest or other rates, indices, or other assets.
(k)
Eligible collateral
means collateral in which, notwithstanding the prior security interest of any custodial agent, the covered company has a perfected, first priority security interest (or the legal equivalent thereof, if outside of the United States), with the exception of cash on deposit, and is in the form of:
(1) Cash on deposit with the covered company or a subsidiary of the covered company (including cash in foreign currency or U.S. dollars held for the covered company by a custodian or trustee, whether inside or outside of the United States);
(2) Debt securities (other than mortgage- or asset-backed securities and resecuritization securities, unless those securities are issued by a U.S. government-sponsored enterprise) that are bank-eligible investments and that are investment grade, except for any debt securities issued by the covered company or any subsidiary of the covered company;
(3) Equity securities that are publicly traded, except for any equity securities issued by the covered company or any subsidiary of the covered company;
(4) Convertible bonds that are publicly traded, except for any convertible bonds issued by the covered company or any subsidiary of the covered company; or
(5) Gold bullion.
(l)
Eligible credit derivative
means a single-name credit derivative or a standard, non-tranched index credit derivative, provided that:
(1) The contract meets the requirements of an eligible guarantee and has been confirmed by the protection purchaser and the protection provider;
(2) Any assignment of the contract has been confirmed by all relevant parties;
(3) If the credit derivative is a credit default swap, the contract includes the following credit events:
(i) Failure to pay any amount due under the terms of the reference exposure, subject to any applicable minimal payment threshold that is consistent
with standard market practice and with a grace period that is closely in line with the grace period of the reference exposure; and
(ii) Receivership, insolvency, liquidation, conservatorship, or inability of the reference exposure issuer to pay its debts, or its failure or admission in writing of its inability generally to pay its debts as they become due, and similar events;
(4) The terms and conditions dictating the manner in which the contract is to be settled are incorporated into the contract;
(5) If the contract allows for cash settlement, the contract incorporates a robust valuation process to estimate loss reliably and specifies a reasonable period for obtaining post-credit event valuations of the reference exposure;
(6) If the contract requires the protection purchaser to transfer an exposure to the protection provider at settlement, the terms of at least one of the exposures that is permitted to be transferred under the contract provide that any required consent to transfer may not be unreasonably withheld; and
(7) If the credit derivative is a credit default swap, the contract clearly identifies the parties responsible for determining whether a credit event has occurred, specifies that this determination is not the sole responsibility of the protection provider, and gives the protection purchaser the right to notify the protection provider of the occurrence of a credit event.
(m)
Eligible equity derivative
means an equity derivative, provided that:
(1) The derivative contract has been confirmed by all relevant parties;
(2) Any assignment of the derivative contract has been confirmed by all relevant parties; and
(3) The terms and conditions dictating the manner in which the derivative contract is to be settled are incorporated into the contract.
(n)
Eligible guarantee
has the same meaning as in § 217.2 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.2).
(o)
Eligible guarantor
has the same meaning as in § 217.2 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.2).
(p)
Equity derivative
has the same meaning as “equity derivative contract” in § 217.2 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.2).
(q)
Exempt counterparty
means an entity that is identified as exempt from the requirements of this subpart under § 252.77, or that is otherwise excluded from this subpart, including any sovereign entity assigned a zero percent risk weight under the standardized approach in the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR part 217, subpart D).
(r)
Financial entity
means:
(1)(i) A bank holding company or an affiliate thereof; a savings and loan holding company as defined in section 10(n) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(n)); a U.S. intermediate holding company established or designated for purposes of compliance with this part; or a nonbank financial company supervised by the Board;
(ii) A depository institution as defined in section 3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)); an organization that is organized under the laws of a foreign country and that engages directly in the business of banking outside the United States; a federal credit union or state credit union as defined in section 2 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752(1) and (6)); a national association, state member bank, or state nonmember bank that is not a depository institution; an institution that functions solely in a trust or fiduciary capacity as described in section 2(c)(2)(D) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)(2)(D)); an industrial loan company, an industrial bank, or other similar institution described in section 2(c)(2)(H) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)(2)(H));
(iii) An entity that is state-licensed or registered as:
(A) A credit or lending entity, including a finance company; money lender; installment lender; consumer lender or lending company; mortgage lender, broker, or bank; motor vehicle title pledge lender; payday or deferred deposit lender; premium finance company; commercial finance or lending company; or commercial mortgage company; except entities registered or licensed solely on account of financing the entity's direct sales of goods or services to customers;
(B) A money services business, including a check casher; money transmitter; currency dealer or exchange; or money order or traveler's check issuer;
(iv) Any person registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a swap dealer or major swap participant pursuant to the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), or an entity that is registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as a security-based swap dealer or a major security-based swap participant pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
);
(v) A securities holding company as defined in section 618 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 1850a); a broker or dealer as defined in sections 3(a)(4) and 3(a)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(4)-(5)); an investment adviser as defined in section 202(a) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)); an investment company registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
); or a company that has elected to be regulated as a business development company pursuant to section 54(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-53(a));
(vi) A private fund as defined in section 202(a) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)); an entity that would be an investment company under section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3) but for section 3(c)(5)(C); or an entity that is deemed not to be an investment company under section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 pursuant to Investment Company Act Rule 3a-7 (17 CFR 270.3a-7) of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission;
(vii) A commodity pool, a commodity pool operator, or a commodity trading advisor as defined, respectively, in sections 1a(10), 1a(11), and 1a(12) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1a(10), 1a(11), and 1a(12)); a floor broker, a floor trader, or introducing broker as defined, respectively, in sections 1a(22), 1a(23) and 1a(31) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1a(22), 1a(23), and 1a(31)); or a futures commission merchant as defined in section 1a(28) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1a(28));
(viii) An employee benefit plan as defined in paragraphs (3) and (32) of section 3 of the Employee Retirement Income and Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002);
(ix) An entity that is organized as an insurance company, primarily engaged in writing insurance or reinsuring risks underwritten by insurance companies, or is subject to supervision as such by a State insurance regulator or foreign insurance regulator;
(x) Any designated financial market utility, as defined in section 803 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5462); and
(xi) An entity that would be a financial entity described in paragraphs (r)(1)(i) through (x) of this section, if it were organized under the laws of the United States or any State thereof; and
(2) Provided that, for purposes of this subpart, “financial entity” does not include any counterparty that is a foreign sovereign entity or multilateral development bank.
(s)
Foreign sovereign entity
means a sovereign entity other than the United States government and the entity's agencies, departments, ministries, and central bank collectively.
(t)
Gross credit exposure
means, with respect to any credit transaction, the credit exposure of the covered company before adjusting, pursuant to § 252.74, for the effect of any eligible collateral, eligible guarantee, eligible credit derivative, eligible equity derivative, other eligible hedge, and any unused portion of certain extensions of credit.
(u)
Immediate family
means the spouse of an individual, the individual's minor children, and any of the individual's children (including adults) residing in the individual's home.
(v)
Intraday credit exposure
means credit exposure of a covered company to a counterparty that by its terms is to be repaid, sold, or terminated by the end of its business day in the United States.
(w)
Investment grade
has the same meaning as in § 217.2 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.2).
(x)
Major counterparty
means any counterparty that is or includes:
(1) A major covered company;
(2) A top-tier foreign banking organization that meets the requirements of § 252.172(c)(3) through (5); or
(3) Any nonbank financial company supervised by the Board.
(y)
Major covered company
is defined in § 252.70(a)(2)(ii) of this subpart.
(z)
Multilateral development bank
has the same meaning as in § 217.2 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.2).
(aa)
Net credit exposure
means, with respect to any credit transaction, the gross credit exposure of a covered company and all of its subsidiaries calculated under § 252.73, as adjusted in accordance with § 252.74.
(bb)
Qualifying central counterparty
has the same meaning as in § 217.2 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.2).
(cc)
Qualifying master netting agreement
has the same meaning as in § 217.2 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.2).
(dd)
Securities financing transaction
means any repurchase agreement, reverse repurchase agreement, securities borrowing transaction, or securities lending transaction.
(ee)
Short sale
means any sale of a security which the seller does not own or any sale which is consummated by the delivery of a security borrowed by, or for the account of, the seller.
(ff)
Sovereign entity
means a central national government (including the U.S. government) or an agency, department, ministry, or central bank, but not including any political subdivision such as a state, province, or municipality.
(gg)
Subsidiary.
A company is a
subsidiary
of another company if:
(1) The company is consolidated by the other company under applicable accounting standards; or
(2) For a company that is not subject to principles or standards referenced in paragraph (gg)(1) of this definition, consolidation would have occurred if such principles or standards had applied.
(hh)
Tier 1 capital
means common equity tier 1 capital and additional tier 1 capital, as defined in the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR part 217) and as reported by the bank holding company on the most recent FR Y-9C report on a consolidated basis.
(ii)
Total consolidated assets.
A company's total consolidated assets are determined based on:
(1) The average of the bank holding company's total consolidated assets in the four most recent consecutive quarters as reported quarterly on the FR Y-9C; or
(2) If the bank holding company has not filed an FR Y-9C for each of the four most recent consecutive quarters, the average of the bank holding company's total consolidated assets, as reported on the company's FR Y-9C, for the most recent quarter or consecutive quarters, as applicable.
§ 252.72
Credit exposure limits.
(a)
General limit on aggregate net credit exposure.
No covered company may have an aggregate net credit exposure to any counterparty that exceeds 25 percent of the tier 1 capital of the covered company.
(b)
Limit on aggregate net credit exposure of major covered companies to major counterparties.
No major covered company may have aggregate net credit exposure to any major counterparty that exceeds 15 percent of the tier 1 capital of the major covered company.
§ 252.73
Gross credit exposure.
(a)
Calculation of gross credit exposure.
The amount of gross credit exposure of a covered company to a counterparty with respect to a credit transaction is, in the case of:
(1) A deposit of the covered company held by the counterparty, loan by a covered company to the counterparty, and lease in which the covered company is the lessor and the counterparty is the lessee, equal to the amount owed by the counterparty to the covered company under the transaction.
(2) A debt security or debt investment held by the covered company that is issued by the counterparty, equal to:
(i) The market value of the securities, for trading and available-for-sale securities; and
(ii) The amortized purchase price of the securities or investments, for securities or investments held to maturity.
(3) An equity security held by the covered company that is issued by the counterparty, equity investment in a counterparty, and other direct investments in a counterparty, equal to the market value.
(4) A securities financing transaction must be valued using any of the methods that the covered company is authorized to use under the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR part 217, subparts D and E) to value such transactions:
(i)(A) As calculated for each transaction, in the case of a securities financing transaction between the covered company and the counterparty that is not subject to a bilateral netting agreement or does not meet the definition of “repo-style transaction” in § 217.2 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.2); or
(B) As calculated for a netting set, in the case of a securities financing transaction between the covered company and the counterparty that is subject to a bilateral netting agreement with that counterparty and meets the definition of “repo-style transaction” in § 217.2 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.2);
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section, the covered company must:
(A) Assign a value of zero to any security received from the counterparty that does not meet the definition of “eligible collateral” in § 252.71(k); and
(B) Include the value of securities that are eligible collateral received by the covered company from the counterparty (including any exempt counterparty), calculated in accordance with paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section, when calculating its gross credit exposure to the issuer of those securities;
(iii) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section and with respect to each credit transaction, a covered company's gross credit exposure to a collateral issuer under this paragraph (a)(4) is limited to the covered company's gross credit exposure to the counterparty on the credit transaction; and
(iv) In cases where the covered company receives eligible collateral from a counterparty in addition to the cash or securities received from that counterparty, the counterparty may reduce its gross credit exposure to that counterparty in accordance with § 252.74(b).
(5) A committed credit line extended by a covered company to a counterparty, equal to the face amount of the committed credit line.
(6) A guarantee or letter of credit issued by a covered company on behalf of a counterparty, equal to the maximum potential loss to the covered company on the transaction.
(7) A derivative transaction must be valued using any of the methods that the covered company is authorized to use under the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR part 217, subparts D and E) to value such transactions:
(i)(A) As calculated for each transaction, in the case of a derivative transaction between the covered company and the counterparty, including an equity derivative but excluding a credit derivative described in paragraph (a)(8) of this section, that is not subject to a qualifying master netting agreement; or
(B) As calculated for a netting set, in the case of a derivative transaction between the covered company and the counterparty, including an equity derivative but excluding a credit derivative described in paragraph (a)(8) of this section, that is subject to a qualifying master netting agreement.
(ii) In cases where a covered company is required to recognize an exposure to an eligible guarantor pursuant to § 252.74(d), the covered company must exclude the relevant derivative transaction when calculating its gross exposure to the original counterparty under this section.
(8) A credit derivative between the covered company and a third party where the covered company is the protection provider and the reference asset is an obligation or debt security of the counterparty, equal to the maximum potential loss to the covered company on the transaction.
(b)
Investments in and exposures to securitization vehicles, investment funds, and other special purpose vehicles that are not subsidiaries.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a covered company must calculate pursuant to § 252.75 its gross credit exposure due to
any investment in the debt or equity of, and any credit derivative or equity derivative between the covered company and a third party where the covered company is the protection provider and the reference asset is an obligation or equity security of, or equity investment in, a securitization vehicle, investment fund, and other special purpose vehicle that is not a subsidiary of the covered company.
(c)
Attribution rule.
Notwithstanding any other requirement in this subpart, a covered company must treat any transaction with any natural person or entity as a credit transaction with another party, to the extent that the proceeds of the transaction are used for the benefit of, or transferred to, the other party.
§ 252.74
Net credit exposure.
(a)
In general.
For purposes of this subpart, a covered company must calculate its net credit exposure to a counterparty by adjusting its gross credit exposure to that counterparty in accordance with the rules set forth in this section.
(b)
Eligible collateral.
(1) In computing its net credit exposure to a counterparty for any credit transaction other than a securities financing transaction, a covered company must reduce its gross credit exposure on the transaction by the adjusted market value of any eligible collateral.
(2) A covered company that reduces its gross credit exposure to a counterparty as required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section must include the adjusted market value of the eligible collateral, when calculating its gross credit exposure to the collateral issuer.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a covered company's gross credit exposure to a collateral issuer under this paragraph (b) is limited to:
(i) Its gross credit exposure to the counterparty on the credit transaction, or
(ii) In the case of an exempt counterparty, the gross credit exposure that would have been attributable to that exempt counterparty on the credit transaction if valued in accordance with § 252.73(a).
(c)
Eligible guarantees.
(1) In calculating net credit exposure to a counterparty for any credit transaction, a covered company must reduce its gross credit exposure to the counterparty by the amount of any eligible guarantee from an eligible guarantor that covers the transaction.
(2) A covered company that reduces its gross credit exposure to a counterparty as required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section must include the amount of eligible guarantees when calculating its gross credit exposure to the eligible guarantor.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a covered company's gross credit exposure to an eligible guarantor with respect to an eligible guarantee under this paragraph (c) is limited to:
(i) Its gross credit exposure to the counterparty on the credit transaction prior to recognition of the eligible guarantee, or
(ii) In the case of an exempt counterparty, the gross credit exposure that would have been attributable to that exempt counterparty on the credit transaction prior to recognition of the eligible guarantee if valued in accordance with § 252.73(a).
(d)
Eligible credit and equity derivatives.
(1) In calculating net credit exposure to a counterparty for a credit transaction under this section, a covered company must reduce its gross credit exposure to the counterparty by:
(i) In the case of any eligible credit derivative from an eligible guarantor, the notional amount of the eligible credit derivative; or
(ii) In the case of any eligible equity derivative from an eligible guarantor, the gross credit exposure amount to the counterparty (calculated in accordance with § 252.73(a)(7)).
(2)(i) A covered company that reduces its gross credit exposure to a counterparty as provided under paragraph (d)(1) of this section must include, when calculating its net credit exposure to the eligible guarantor, including in instances where the underlying credit transaction would not be subject to the credit limits of § 252.72 (for example, due to an exempt counterparty), either
(A) In the case of any eligible credit derivative from an eligible guarantor, the notional amount of the eligible credit derivative; or
(B) In the case of any eligible equity derivative from an eligible guarantor, the gross credit exposure amount to the counterparty (calculated in accordance with § 252.73(a)(7)).
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, in cases where the eligible credit derivative or eligible equity derivative is used to hedge covered positions that are subject to the Board's market risk rule (12 CFR part 217, subpart F) and the counterparty on the hedged transaction is not a financial entity, the amount of credit exposure that a company must recognize to the eligible guarantor is the amount that would be calculated pursuant to § 252.73(a).
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(2) of this section, a covered company's gross credit exposure to an eligible guarantor with respect to an eligible credit derivative or an eligible equity derivative under this paragraph (d) is limited to:
(i) Its gross credit exposure to the counterparty on the credit transaction prior to recognition of the eligible credit derivative or the eligible equity derivative, or
(ii) In the case of an exempt counterparty, the gross credit exposure that would have been attributable to that exempt counterparty on the credit transaction prior to recognition of the eligible credit derivative or the eligible equity derivative if valued in accordance with § 252.73(a).
(e)
Other eligible hedges.
In calculating net credit exposure to a counterparty for a credit transaction under this section, a covered company may reduce its gross credit exposure to the counterparty by the face amount of a short sale of the counterparty's debt security or equity security, provided that:
(1) The instrument in which the covered company has a short position is junior to, or
pari passu
with, the instrument in which the covered company has the long position; and
(2) The instrument in which the covered company has a short position and the instrument in which the covered company has the long position are either both treated as trading or available-for-sale exposures or both treated as held-to-maturity exposures.
(f)
Unused portion of certain extensions of credit.
(1) In computing its net credit exposure to a counterparty for a committed credit line or revolving credit facility under this section, a covered company may reduce its gross credit exposure by the amount of the unused portion of the credit extension to the extent that the covered company does not have any legal obligation to advance additional funds under the extension of credit and the used portion of the credit extension has been fully secured by eligible collateral.
(2) To the extent that the used portion of a credit extension has been secured by eligible collateral, the covered company may reduce its gross credit exposure by the adjusted market value of any eligible collateral received from the counterparty, even if the used portion has not been fully secured by eligible collateral.
(3) To qualify for the reduction in net credit exposure under this paragraph, the credit contract must specify that any used portion of the credit extension must be fully secured by the adjusted market value of any eligible collateral.
(g)
Credit transactions involving exempt counterparties.
(1) A covered company's credit transactions with an exempt counterparty are not subject to the requirements of this subpart, including but not limited to § 252.72.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (g)(1) of this section, in cases where a covered company has a credit transaction with an exempt counterparty and the covered company has obtained eligible collateral from that exempt counterparty or an eligible guarantee or eligible credit or equity derivative from an eligible guarantor, the covered company must include (for purposes of this subpart) such exposure to the issuer of such eligible collateral or the eligible guarantor, as calculated in accordance with the rules set forth in this section, when calculating its gross credit exposure to that issuer of eligible collateral or eligible guarantor.
(h)
Currency mismatch adjustments.
For purposes of calculating its net
credit exposure to a counterparty under this section, a covered company must apply, as applicable:
(1) When reducing its gross credit exposure to a counterparty resulting from any credit transaction due to any eligible collateral and calculating its gross credit exposure to an issuer of eligible collateral, pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the currency mismatch adjustment approach of § 217.37(c)(3)(ii) of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.37(c)(3)(ii)); and
(2) When reducing its gross credit exposure to a counterparty resulting from any credit transaction due to any eligible guarantee, eligible equity derivative, or eligible credit derivative from an eligible guarantor and calculating its gross credit exposure to an eligible guarantor, pursuant to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the currency mismatch adjustment approach of § 217.36(f) of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.36(f)).
(i)
Maturity mismatch adjustments.
For purposes of calculating its net credit exposure to a counterparty under this section, a covered company must apply, as applicable, the maturity mismatch adjustment approach of § 217.36(d) of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.36(d)):
(1) When reducing its gross credit exposure to a counterparty resulting from any credit transaction due to any eligible collateral or any eligible guarantees, eligible equity derivatives, or eligible credit derivatives from an eligible guarantor, pursuant to paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, and
(2) In calculating its gross credit exposure to an issuer of eligible collateral, pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, or to an eligible guarantor, pursuant to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section; provided that
(3) The eligible collateral, eligible guarantee, eligible equity derivative, or eligible credit derivative subject to paragraph (i)(1) of this section:
(i) Has a shorter maturity than the credit transaction;
(ii) Has an original maturity equal to or greater than one year;
(iii) Has a residual maturity of not less than three months; and
(iv) The adjustment approach is otherwise applicable.
§ 252.75
Investments in and exposures to securitization vehicles, investment funds, and other special purpose vehicles that are not subsidiaries of the covered company.
(a)
In general.
(1) For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(i)
SPV
means a securitization vehicle, investment fund, or other special purpose vehicle that is not a subsidiary of the covered company.
(ii)
SPV exposure
means an investment in the debt or equity of an SPV, or a credit derivative or equity derivative between the covered company and a third party where the covered company is the protection provider and the reference asset is an obligation or equity security of, or equity investment in, an SPV.
(2)(i) A covered company must determine whether the amount of its gross credit exposure to an issuer of assets in an SPV, due to an SPV exposure, is equal to or greater than 0.25 percent of the covered company's tier 1 capital using one of the following two methods:
(A) The sum of all of the issuer's assets (with each asset valued in accordance with § 252.73(a)) in the SPV; or
(B) The application of the look-through approach described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(ii) With respect to the determination required under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, a covered company must use the same method to calculate gross credit exposure to each issuer of assets in a particular SPV.
(iii) In making a determination under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, the covered company must consider only the credit exposure to the issuer arising from the covered company's SPV exposure.
(iv) For purposes of this paragraph (a)(2), a covered company that is unable to identify each issuer of assets in an SPV must attribute to a single unknown counterparty the amount of its gross credit exposure to all unidentified issuers and calculate such gross credit exposure using one method in either paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) or (a)(2)(i)(B) of this section.
(3)(i) If a covered company determines pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section that the amount of its gross credit exposure to an issuer of assets in an SPV is less than 0.25 percent of the covered company's tier 1 capital, the amount of the covered company's gross credit exposure to that issuer may be attributed to either that issuer of assets or the SPV:
(A) If attributed to the issuer of assets, the issuer of assets must be identified as a counterparty, and the gross credit exposure calculated under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section to that issuer of assets must be aggregated with any other gross credit exposures (valued in accordance with § 252.73) to that same counterparty; and
(B) If attributed to the SPV, the covered company's gross credit exposure is equal to the covered company's SPV exposure, valued in accordance with § 252.73(a).
(ii) If a covered company determines pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section that the amount of its gross credit exposure to an issuer of assets in an SPV is equal to or greater than 0.25 percent of the covered company's tier 1 capital or the covered company is unable to determine that the amount of the gross credit exposure is less than 0.25 percent of the covered company's tier 1 capital:
(A) The covered company must calculate the amount of its gross credit exposure to the issuer of assets in the SPV using the look-through approach in paragraph (b) of this section;
(B) The issuer of assets in the SPV must be identified as a counterparty, and the gross credit exposure calculated in accordance with paragraph (b) must be aggregated with any other gross credit exposures (valued in accordance with § 252.73) to that same counterparty; and
(C) When applying the look-through approach in paragraph (b) of this section, a covered company that is unable to identify each issuer of assets in an SPV must attribute to a single unknown counterparty the amount of its gross credit exposure, calculated in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, to all unidentified issuers.
(iii) For purposes of this section, a covered company must aggregate all gross credit exposures to unknown counterparties for all SPVs as if the exposures related to a single unknown counterparty; this single unknown counterparty is subject to the limits of § 252.72 as if it were a single counterparty.
(b)
Look-through approach.
A covered company that is required to calculate the amount of its gross credit exposure with respect to an issuer of assets in accordance with this paragraph (b) must calculate the amount as follows:
(1) Where all investors in the SPV rank
pari passu,
the amount of the gross credit exposure to the issuer of assets is equal to the covered company's pro rata share of the SPV multiplied by the value of the underlying asset in the SPV, valued in accordance with § 252.73(a); and
(2) Where all investors in the SPV do not rank
pari passu,
the amount of the gross credit exposure to the issuer of assets is equal to:
(i) The pro rata share of the covered company's investment in the tranche of the SPV; multiplied by
(ii) The lesser of:
(A) The market value of the tranche in which the covered company has invested, except in the case of a debt security that is held to maturity, in which case the tranche must be valued at the amortized purchase price of the securities; and
(B) The value of each underlying asset attributed to the issuer in the SPV, each as calculated pursuant to § 252.73(a).
(c)
Exposures to third parties.
(1) Notwithstanding any other requirement in this section, a covered company must recognize, for purposes of this subpart, a gross credit exposure to each third party that has a contractual obligation to provide credit or liquidity support to an SPV whose failure or material financial distress would cause a loss in the value of the covered company's SPV exposure.
(2) The amount of any gross credit exposure that is required to be recognized to a third party under paragraph (c)(1) of this section is equal to the covered company's SPV exposure, up to the maximum contractual obligation of that third party to the SPV, valued in accordance with § 252.73(a). (This
gross credit exposure is in addition to the covered company's gross credit exposure to the SPV or the issuers of assets of the SPV, calculated in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.)
(3) A covered company must aggregate the gross credit exposure to a third party recognized in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section with its other gross credit exposures to that third party (that are unrelated to the SPV) for purposes of compliance with the limits of § 252.72.
§ 252.76
Aggregation of exposures to more than one counterparty due to economic interdependence or control relationships.
(a)
In general.
(1) If a covered company has an aggregate net credit exposure to any counterparty that exceeds 5 percent of its tier 1 capital, the covered company must assess its relationship with the counterparty under paragraph (b)(2) of this section to determine whether the counterparty is economically interdependent with one or more other counterparties of the covered company and under paragraph (c)(1) of this section to determine whether the counterparty is connected by a control relationship with one or more other counterparties.
(2) If, pursuant to an assessment required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the covered company determines that one or more of the factors of paragraph (b)(2) or (c)(1) of this section are met with respect to one or more counterparties, or the Board determines pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section that one or more other counterparties of a covered company are economically interdependent or that one or more other counterparties of a covered company are connected by a control relationship, the covered company must aggregate its net credit exposure to the counterparties for all purposes under this subpart, including, but not limited to, § 252.72.
(3) In connection with any request pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) or (c)(2) of this section, the Board may require the covered company to provide additional information.
(b)
Aggregation of exposures to more than one counterparty due to economic interdependence.
(1) For purposes of this paragraph, two counterparties are economically interdependent if the failure, default, insolvency, or material financial distress of one counterparty would cause the failure, default, insolvency, or material financial distress of the other counterparty, taking into account the factors in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2) A covered company must assess whether the financial distress of one counterparty (counterparty A) would prevent the ability of the other counterparty (counterparty B) to fully and timely repay counterparty B's liabilities and whether the insolvency or default of counterparty A is likely to be associated with the insolvency or default of counterparty B and, therefore, these counterparties are economically interdependent, by evaluating the following:
(i) Whether 50 percent or more of one counterparty's gross revenue is derived from, or gross expenditures are directed to, transactions with the other counterparty;
(ii) Whether counterparty A has fully or partly guaranteed the credit exposure of counterparty B, or is liable by other means, in an amount that is 50 percent or more of the covered company's net credit exposure to counterparty A;
(iii) Whether 25 percent or more of one counterparty's production or output is sold to the other counterparty, which cannot easily be replaced by other customers;
(iv) Whether the expected source of funds to repay the loans of both counterparties is the same and neither counterparty has another independent source of income from which the loans may be serviced and fully repaid;
1
and
1
An employer will not be treated as a source of repayment under this paragraph because of wages and salaries paid to an employee.
(v) Whether two or more counterparties rely on the same source for the majority of their funding and, in the event of the common provider's default, an alternative provider cannot be found.
(3)(i) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(2) of this section, if a covered company determines that one or more of the factors in paragraph (b)(2) is met, the covered company may request in writing a determination from the Board that those counterparties are not economically interdependent and that the covered company is not required to aggregate those counterparties.
(ii) Upon a request by a covered company pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the Board may grant temporary relief to the covered company and not require the covered company to aggregate one counterparty with another counterparty provided that the counterparty could promptly modify its business relationships, such as by reducing its reliance on the other counterparty, to address any economic interdependence concerns, and provided that such relief is in the public interest and is consistent with the purpose of this subpart and 12 U.S.C. 5365(e).
(c)
Aggregation of exposures to more than one counterparty due to certain control relationships.
(1) For purposes of this subpart, one counterparty (counterparty A) is deemed to control the other counterparty (counterparty B) if:
(i) Counterparty A owns, controls, or holds with the power to vote 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities of counterparty B; or
(ii) Counterparty A controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors, trustees, or general partners (or individuals exercising similar functions) of counterparty B.
(2)(i) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, if a covered company determines that one or more of the factors in paragraph (c)(1) is met, the covered company may request in writing a determination from the Board that counterparty A does not control counterparty B and that the covered company is not required to aggregate those counterparties.
(ii) Upon a request by a covered company pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the Board may grant temporary relief to the covered company and not require the covered company to aggregate counterparty A with counterparty B provided that, taking into account the specific facts and circumstances, such indicia of control does not result in the entities being connected by control relationships for purposes of this subpart, and provided that such relief is in the public interest and is consistent with the purpose of this subpart and 12 U.S.C. 5365(e).
(d)
Board determinations for aggregation of counterparties due to economic interdependence or control relationships.
The Board may determine, after notice to the covered company and opportunity for hearing, that one or more counterparties of a covered company are:
(1) Economically interdependent for purposes of this subpart, considering the factors in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, as well as any other indicia of economic interdependence that the Board determines in its discretion to be relevant; or
(2) Connected by control relationships for purposes of this subpart, considering the factors in paragraph (c)(1) of this section and whether counterparty A:
(i) Controls the power to vote 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities of Counterparty B pursuant to a voting agreement;
(ii) Has significant influence on the appointment or dismissal of counterparty B's administrative, management, or governing body, or the fact that a majority of members of such body have been appointed solely as a result of the exercise of counterparty A's voting rights; or
(iii) Has the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of counterparty B.
(e)
Board determinations for aggregation of counterparties to prevent evasion.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a covered company must aggregate its exposures to a counterparty with the covered company's exposures to another counterparty if the Board determines in writing after notice and opportunity for hearing, that the exposures to the two counterparties must be aggregated to prevent evasions of the purposes of
this subpart, including, but not limited to § 252.76 and 12 U.S.C. 5365(e).
[83 FR 38493, Aug. 6, 2018, as amended at 83 FR 64023, Dec. 13, 2018]
§ 252.77
Exemptions.
(a)
Exempted exposure categories.
The following categories of credit transactions are exempt from the limits on credit exposure under this subpart:
(1) Any direct claim on, and the portion of a claim that is directly and fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, only while operating under the conservatorship or receivership of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, and any additional obligation issued by a U.S. government-sponsored entity as determined by the Board;
(2) Intraday credit exposure to a counterparty;
(3) Any trade exposure to a qualifying central counterparty related to the covered company's clearing activity, including potential future exposure arising from transactions cleared by the qualifying central counterparty and pre-funded default fund contributions;
(4) Any credit transaction with the Bank for International Settlements, the International Monetary Fund, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Finance Corporation, the International Development Association, the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency, or the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes;
(5) Any credit transaction with the European Commission or the European Central Bank; and
(6) Any transaction that the Board exempts if the Board finds that such exemption is in the public interest and is consistent with the purpose of this subpart.
(b)
Exemption for Federal Home Loan Banks.
For purposes of this subpart, a covered company does not include any Federal Home Loan Bank.
(c)
Additional exemptions by the Board.
The Board may, by regulation or order, exempt transactions, in whole or in part, from the definition of the term “credit exposure,” if the Board finds that the exemption is in the public interest and is consistent with the purpose of 12 U.S.C. 5365(e).
§ 252.78
Compliance.
(a)
Scope of compliance.
(1) Using all available data, including any data required to be maintained or reported to the Federal Reserve under this subpart, a covered company must comply with the requirements of this subpart on a daily basis at the end of each business day.
(2) A covered company must report its compliance to the Federal Reserve as of the end of the quarter, unless the Board determines and notifies that company in writing that more frequent reporting is required.
(3) In reporting its compliance, a covered company must calculate and include in its gross credit exposure to an issuer of eligible collateral or eligible guarantor the amounts of eligible collateral, eligible guarantees, eligible equity derivatives, and eligible credit derivatives that were provided to the covered company in connection with credit transactions with exempt counterparties, valued in accordance with and as required by § 252.74(b) through (d) and (g).
(b)
Qualifying Master Netting Agreement.
With respect to any qualifying master netting agreement, a covered company must establish and maintain procedures that meet or exceed the requirements of § 217.3(d) of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.3(d)) to monitor possible changes in relevant law and to ensure that the agreement continues to satisfy these requirements.
(c)
Noncompliance.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, if a covered company is not in compliance with this subpart with respect to a counterparty solely due to the circumstances listed in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (v) of this section, the covered company will not be subject to enforcement actions for a period of 90 days (or, with prior notice to the company, such shorter or longer period determined by the Board, in its sole discretion, to be appropriate to preserve the safety and soundness of the covered company or U.S. financial stability), if the covered company uses reasonable efforts to return to compliance with
this subpart during this period. The covered company may not engage in any additional credit transactions with such a counterparty in contravention of this rule during the period of noncompliance, except as provided in paragraph (c)(2).
(2) A covered company may request a special temporary credit exposure limit exemption from the Board. The Board may grant approval for such exemption in cases where the Board determines that such credit transactions are necessary or appropriate to preserve the safety and soundness of the covered company or U.S. financial stability. In acting on a request for an exemption, the Board will consider the following:
(i) A decrease in the covered company's capital stock and surplus;
(ii) The merger of the covered company with another covered company;
(iii) A merger of two counterparties; or
(iv) An unforeseen and abrupt change in the status of a counterparty as a result of which the covered company's credit exposure to the counterparty becomes limited by the requirements of this section; or
(v) Any other factor(s) the Board determines, in its discretion, is appropriate.
(d)
Other measures.
The Board may impose supervisory oversight and additional reporting measures that it determines are appropriate to monitor compliance with this subpart. Covered companies must furnish, in the manner and form prescribed by the Board, such information to monitor compliance with this subpart and the limits therein as the Board may require.

# Subpart I—Requirements for Qualified Financial Contracts of Global Systemically Important Banking Organizations

# Source:
Reg. YY, 82 FR 42920, Sept. 12, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 252.81
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart:
Central counterparty (CCP)
has the same meaning as in § 217.2 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.2).
Chapter 11 proceeding
means a proceeding under Chapter 11 of Title 11, United States Code (11 U.S.C. 1101-74.).
Consolidated affiliate
means an affiliate of another company that
(1) Either consolidates the other company, or is consolidated by the other company, on financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, the International Financial Reporting Standards, or other similar standards;
(2) Is, along with the other company, consolidated with a third company on a financial statement prepared in accordance with principles or standards referenced in paragraph (1) of this definition; or
(3) For a company that is not subject to principles or standards referenced in paragraph (1), if consolidation as described in paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition would have occurred if such principles or standards had applied.
Default right
(1) Means, with respect to a QFC, any:
(i) Right of a party, whether contractual or otherwise (including, without limitation, rights incorporated by reference to any other contract, agreement, or document, and rights afforded by statute, civil code, regulation, and common law), to liquidate, terminate, cancel, rescind, or accelerate such agreement or transactions thereunder, set off or net amounts owing in respect thereto (except rights related to same-day payment netting), exercise remedies in respect of collateral or other credit support or property related thereto (including the purchase and sale of property), demand payment or delivery thereunder or in respect thereof (other than a right or operation of a contractual provision arising solely from a change in the value of collateral or margin or a change in the amount of an economic exposure), suspend, delay, or defer payment or performance thereunder, or modify the obligations of a party thereunder, or any similar rights; and
(ii) Right or contractual provision that alters the amount of collateral or margin that must be provided with respect to an exposure thereunder, including by altering any initial amount, threshold amount, variation margin,
minimum transfer amount, the margin value of collateral, or any similar amount, that entitles a party to demand the return of any collateral or margin transferred by it to the other party or a custodian or that modifies a transferee's right to reuse collateral or margin (if such right previously existed), or any similar rights, in each case, other than a right or operation of a contractual provision arising solely from a change in the value of collateral or margin or a change in the amount of an economic exposure;
(2) With respect to § 252.84, does not include any right under a contract that allows a party to terminate the contract on demand or at its option at a specified time, or from time to time, without the need to show cause.
Excluded bank:
(1) Means a national bank, a Federal savings association, a Federal branch, a Federal agency, or an FSI that is exempted from the scope of this subpart pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3) of § 252.82;
(2) Does not include any entity described in paragraph (1) of this definition that is owned pursuant to section 3(a)(A)(ii) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(A)(ii)); is owned by a depository institution in satisfaction of debt previously contracted in good faith; is a portfolio concern, as defined under 13 CFR 107.50, that is controlled by a small business investment company, as defined in section 103(3) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 662); is owned pursuant to paragraph (11) of section 5136 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (12 U.S.C. 24); or is a DPC branch subsidiary.
FDI Act proceeding
means a proceeding in which the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is appointed as conservator or receiver under section 11 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821).
FDI Act stay period
means, in connection with an FDI Act proceeding, the period of time during which a party to a QFC with a party that is subject to an FDI Act proceeding may not exercise any right that the party that is not subject to an FDI Act proceeding has to terminate, liquidate, or net such QFC, in accordance with section 11(e) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821(e)) and any implementing regulations.
Financial counterparty
means a person that is:
(1)(i) A bank holding company or an affiliate thereof; a savings and loan holding company as defined in section 10(n) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(n)); a U.S. intermediate holding company that is established or designated for purposes of compliance with this part; or a nonbank financial company supervised by the Board;
(ii) A depository institution as defined in section 3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)); an organization that is organized under the laws of a foreign country and that engages directly in the business of banking outside the United States; a Federal credit union or State credit union as defined in section 2 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752(1)
(6)); an institution that functions solely in a trust or fiduciary capacity as described in section 2(c)(2)(D) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)(2)(D)); an industrial loan company, an industrial bank, or other similar institution described in section 2(c)(2)(H) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)(2)(H));
(iii) An entity that is state-licensed or registered as:
(A) A credit or lending entity, including a finance company; money lender; installment lender; consumer lender or lending company; mortgage lender, broker, or bank; motor vehicle title pledge lender; payday or deferred deposit lender; premium finance company; commercial finance or lending company; or commercial mortgage company; except entities registered or licensed solely on account of financing the entity's direct sales of goods or services to customers;
(B) A money services business, including a check casher; money transmitter; currency dealer or exchange; or money order or traveler's check issuer;
(iv) A regulated entity as defined in section 1303(20) of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992, as amended (12 U.S.C. 4502(20)) or any entity for which the Federal Housing Finance Agency or
its successor is the primary federal regulator;
(v) Any institution chartered in accordance with the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended, 12 U.S.C. 2002
et seq.,
that is regulated by the Farm Credit Administration;
(vi) Any entity registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a swap dealer or major swap participant pursuant to the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), or an entity that is registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as a security-based swap dealer or a major security-based swap participant pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
);
(vii) A securities holding company, with the meaning specified in section 618 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 1850a); a broker or dealer as defined in sections 3(a)(4) and 3(a)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(4)-(5)); an investment adviser as defined in section 202(a) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)); an investment company registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
); or a company that has elected to be regulated as a business development company pursuant to section 54(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-53(a));
(viii) A private fund as defined in section 202(a) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)); an entity that would be an investment company under section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3) but for section 3(c)(5)(C); or an entity that is deemed not to be an investment company under section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 pursuant to Investment Company Act Rule 3a-7 (17 CFR 270.3a-7) of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission;
(ix) A commodity pool, a commodity pool operator, or a commodity trading advisor as defined, respectively, in sections 1a(10), 1a(11), and 1a(12) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1a(10), 1a(11), and 1a(12)); a floor broker, a floor trader, or introducing broker as defined, respectively, in sections 1a(22), 1a(23) and 1a(31) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1a(22), 1a(23), and 1a(31)); or a futures commission merchant as defined in section 1a(28) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1a(28));
(x) An employee benefit plan as defined in paragraphs (3) and (32) of section 3 of the Employee Retirement Income and Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002);
(xi) An entity that is organized as an insurance company, primarily engaged in writing insurance or reinsuring risks underwritten by insurance companies, or is subject to supervision as such by a State insurance regulator or foreign insurance regulator; or
(xii) An entity that would be a financial counterparty described in paragraphs (1)(i)-(xi) of this definition, if the entity were organized under the laws of the United States or any state thereof.
(2) The term “financial counterparty” does not include any counterparty that is:
(i) A sovereign entity;
(ii) A multilateral development bank; or
(iii) The Bank for International Settlements.
Financial market utility (FMU)
means any person, regardless of the jurisdiction in which the person is located or organized, that manages or operates a multilateral system for the purpose of transferring, clearing, or settling payments, securities, or other financial transactions among financial institutions or between financial institutions and the person, but does not include:
(1) Designated contract markets, registered futures associations, swap data repositories, and swap execution facilities registered under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), or national securities exchanges, national securities associations, alternative trading systems, security-based swap data repositories, and swap execution facilities registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), solely by reason of their providing facilities for comparison of data respecting the terms of settlement of securities or futures transactions effected on such exchange or by means of
any electronic system operated or controlled by such entities, provided that the exclusions in this clause apply only with respect to the activities that require the entity to be so registered; or
(2) Any broker, dealer, transfer agent, or investment company, or any futures commission merchant, introducing broker, commodity trading advisor, or commodity pool operator, solely by reason of functions performed by such institution as part of brokerage, dealing, transfer agency, or investment company activities, or solely by reason of acting on behalf of a FMU or a participant therein in connection with the furnishing by the FMU of services to its participants or the use of services of the FMU by its participants, provided that services performed by such institution do not constitute critical risk management or processing functions of the FMU.
FSI
means a state savings association or state nonmember bank (as the terms are defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1813).
Investment advisory contract
means any contract or agreement whereby a person agrees to act as investment adviser to or to manage any investment or trading account of another person.
Master agreement
means a QFC of the type set forth in sections 210(c)(8)(D)(ii)(XI), (iii)(IX), (iv)(IV), (v)(V), or (vi)(V) of Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(D)(ii)(XI), (iii)(IX), (iv)(IV), (v)(V), or (vi)(V)) or a master agreement that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation determines by regulation is a QFC pursuant to section 210(c)(8)(D)(i) of Title II of the act (12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(D)(i)).
Person
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 225.2.
Qualified financial contract (QFC)
has the same meaning as in section 210(c)(8)(D) of Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(D)).
Retail customer or counterparty
has the same meaning as in § 249.3 of the Board's Regulation WW (12 CFR 249.3).
Small financial institution
means a company that:
(1) Is organized as a bank, as defined in section 3(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; a savings association, as defined in section 3(b) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; a farm credit system institution chartered under the Farm Credit Act of 1971; or an insured Federal credit union or State-chartered credit union under the Federal Credit Union Act; and
(2) Has total assets of $10,000,000,000 or less on the last day of the company's most recent fiscal year.
U.S. special resolution regimes
means the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811-1835a) and regulations promulgated thereunder and Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5381-5394) and regulations promulgated thereunder.
§ 252.82
Applicability.
(a)
General requirement.
A covered entity must ensure that each covered QFC conforms to the requirements of §§ 252.83 and 252.84.
(b)
Covered entities.
For purposes of this subpart, a covered entity is:
(1) A bank holding company that is identified as a global systemically important BHC pursuant to 12 CFR 217.402;
(2) A subsidiary of a company identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section other than a subsidiary that is:
(i) A national bank, a Federal savings association, a Federal branch, a Federal agency, an FSI;
(ii) A company owned pursuant to section 3(a)(A)(ii), 4(c)(2), 4(k)(4)(H), or 4(k)(4)(I) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(A)(ii), 1843(c)(2), 1843(k)(4)(H), 1843(k)(4)(I));
(iii) A company owned by a depository institution in satisfaction of debt previously contracted in good faith;
(iv) A portfolio concern, as defined under 13 CFR 107.50, that is controlled by a small business investment company, as defined in section 103(3) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 662); or
(v) A company the business of which is to make investments that are designed primarily to promote the public welfare, of the type permitted under paragraph (11) of section 5136 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (12 U.S.C. 24), including the welfare of low- and moderate-income communities or families (such as providing housing, services, or jobs)); or
(3) A U.S. subsidiary, U.S. branch, or U.S. agency of a global systemically important foreign banking organization other than a U.S. subsidiary, U.S. branch, or U.S. agency that is:
(i) A national bank, a Federal savings association, a Federal branch, a Federal agency, an FSI;
(ii) A company owned pursuant to section 3(a)(A)(ii), 4(c)(2), 4(k)(4)(H), or 4(k)(4)(I) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(A)(ii), 1843(c)(2), 1843(k)(4)(H), 1843(k)(4)(I));
(iii) A company owned by a depository institution in satisfaction of debt previously contracted in good faith;
(iv) A portfolio concern, as defined under 13 CFR 107.50, that is controlled by a small business investment company, as defined in section 103(3) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 662);
(v) A company the business of which is to make investments that are designed primarily to promote the public welfare, of the type permitted under paragraph (11) of section 5136 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (12 U.S.C. 24), including the welfare of low- and moderate-income communities or families (such as providing housing, services, or jobs);
(vi) A section 2(h)(2) company; or
(vii) A DPC branch subsidiary.
(c)
Covered QFCs.
For purposes of this subpart, a covered QFC is:
(1) With respect to a covered entity that is a covered entity on November 13, 2017, an in-scope QFC that the covered entity:
(i) Enters, executes, or otherwise becomes a party to on or after January 1, 2019; or
(ii) Entered, executed, or otherwise became a party to before January 1, 2019, if the covered entity or any affiliate that is a covered entity or excluded bank also enters, executes, or otherwise becomes a party to a QFC with the same person or a consolidated affiliate of the same person on or after January 1, 2019.
(2) With respect to a covered entity that becomes a covered entity after November 13, 2017, an in-scope QFC that the covered entity:
(i) Enters, executes or otherwise becomes a party to on or after the later of the date the covered entity first becomes a covered entity and January 1, 2019; or
(ii) Entered, executed, or otherwise became a party to before the date identified in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section with respect to the covered entity, if the covered entity or any affiliate that is a covered entity or excluded bank also enters, executes, or otherwise becomes a party to a QFC with the same person or consolidated affiliate of the same person on or after the date identified in paragraph (c)(2)(i) with respect to the covered entity.
(d)
In-scope QFCs.
An in-scope QFC is a QFC that explicitly:
(1) Restricts the transfer of a QFC (or any interest or obligation in or under, or any property securing, the QFC) from a covered entity; or
(2) Provides one or more default rights with respect to a QFC that may be exercised against a covered entity.
(e)
Rules of construction.
For purposes of this subpart:
(1) A covered entity does not become a party to a QFC solely by acting as agent with respect to the QFC; and
(2) The exercise of a default right with respect to a covered QFC includes the automatic or deemed exercise of the default right pursuant to the terms of the QFC or other arrangement.
(f)
Initial applicability of requirements for covered QFCs.
(1) With respect to each of its covered QFCs, a covered entity that is a covered entity on November 13, 2017 must conform the covered QFC to the requirements of this subpart by:
(i) January 1, 2019, if each party to the covered QFC is a covered entity or an excluded bank;
(ii) July 1, 2019, if each party to the covered QFC (other than the covered entity) is a financial counterparty that is not a covered entity or excluded bank; or
(iii) January 1, 2020, if a party to the covered QFC (other than the covered entity) is not described in paragraph (f)(1)(i) or (f)(1)(ii) of this section or if, notwithstanding paragraph (f)(1)(ii), a party to the covered QFC (other than the covered entity) is a small financial institution.
(2) With respect to each of its covered QFCs, a covered entity that is not a covered entity on November 13, 2017 must conform the covered QFC to the requirements of this subpart by:
(i) The first day of the calendar quarter immediately following 1 year after the date the covered entity first becomes a covered entity, if each party to the covered QFC is a covered entity or an excluded bank;
(ii) The first day of the calendar quarter immediately following 18 months from the date the covered entity first becomes a covered entity if each party to the covered QFC (other than the covered entity) is a financial counterparty that is not a covered entity or excluded bank; or
(iii) The first day of the calendar quarter immediately following 2 years from the date the covered entity first becomes a covered entity if a party to the covered QFC (other than the covered entity) is not described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) or (f)(2)(ii) of this section or if, notwithstanding paragraph (f)(2)(ii), a party to the covered QFC (other than the covered entity) is a small financial institution.
§ 252.83
U.S. Special Resolution Regimes.
(a)
Covered QFCs not required to be conformed.
(1) Notwithstanding § 252.82, a covered entity is not required to conform a covered QFC to the requirements of this section if:
(i) The covered QFC designates, in the manner described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the U.S. special resolution regimes as part of the law governing the QFC; and
(ii) Each party to the covered QFC, other than the covered entity, is:
(A) An individual that is domiciled in the United States, including any State;
(B) A company that is incorporated in or organized under the laws of the United States or any State;
(C) A company the principal place of business of which is located in the United States, including any State; or
(D) A U.S. branch or U.S. agency.
(2) A covered QFC designates the U.S. special resolution regimes as part of the law governing the QFC if the covered QFC:
(i) Explicitly provides that the covered QFC is governed by the laws of the United States or a state of the United States; and
(ii) Does not explicitly provide that one or both of the U.S. special resolution regimes, or a broader set of laws that includes a U.S. special resolution regime, is excluded from the laws governing the covered QFC.
(b)
Provisions required.
A covered QFC must explicitly provide that:
(1) In the event the covered entity becomes subject to a proceeding under a U.S. special resolution regime, the transfer of the covered QFC (and any interest and obligation in or under, and any property securing, the covered QFC) from the covered entity will be effective to the same extent as the transfer would be effective under the U.S. special resolution regime if the covered QFC (and any interest and obligation in or under, and any property securing, the covered QFC) were governed by the laws of the United States or a state of the United States; and
(2) In the event the covered entity or an affiliate of the covered entity becomes subject to a proceeding under a U.S. special resolution regime, default rights with respect to the covered QFC that may be exercised against the covered entity are permitted to be exercised to no greater extent than the default rights could be exercised under the U.S. special resolution regime if the covered QFC were governed by the laws of the United States or a state of the United States.
(c)
Relevance of creditor protection provisions.
The requirements of this section apply notwithstanding paragraphs (d), (f), and (h) of § 252.84.
§ 252.84
Insolvency proceedings.
(a)
Covered QFCs not required to be conformed.
Notwithstanding § 252.82, a
covered entity is not required to conform a covered QFC to the requirements of this section if the covered QFC:
(1) Does not explicitly provide any default right with respect to the covered QFC that is related, directly or indirectly, to an affiliate of the direct party becoming subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding; and
(2) Does not explicitly prohibit the transfer of a covered affiliate credit enhancement, any interest or obligation in or under the covered affiliate credit enhancement, or any property securing the covered affiliate credit enhancement to a transferee upon or following an affiliate of the direct party becoming subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding or would prohibit such a transfer only if the transfer would result in the supported party being the beneficiary of the credit enhancement in violation of any law applicable to the supported party.
(b)
General prohibitions.
(1) A covered QFC may not permit the exercise of any default right with respect to the covered QFC that is related, directly or indirectly, to an affiliate of the direct party becoming subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding.
(2) A covered QFC may not prohibit the transfer of a covered affiliate credit enhancement, any interest or obligation in or under the covered affiliate credit enhancement, or any property securing the covered affiliate credit enhancement to a transferee upon or following an affiliate of the direct party becoming subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding unless the transfer would result in the supported party being the beneficiary of the credit enhancement in violation of any law applicable to the supported party.
(c)
Definitions relevant to the general prohibitions
—(1)
Direct party.
Direct party means a covered entity or excluded bank that is a party to the direct QFC.
(2)
Direct QFC.
Direct QFC means a QFC that is not a credit enhancement,
provided that,
for a QFC that is a master agreement that includes an affiliate credit enhancement as a supplement to the master agreement, the direct QFC does not include the affiliate credit enhancement.
(3)
Affiliate credit enhancement.
Affiliate credit enhancement means a credit enhancement that is provided by an affiliate of a party to the direct QFC that the credit enhancement supports.
(d)
General creditor protections.
Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, a covered direct QFC and covered affiliate credit enhancement that supports the covered direct QFC may permit the exercise of a default right with respect to the covered QFC that arises as a result of:
(1) The direct party becoming subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding;
(2) The direct party not satisfying a payment or delivery obligation pursuant to the covered QFC or another contract between the same parties that gives rise to a default right in the covered QFC; or
(3) The covered affiliate support provider or transferee not satisfying a payment or delivery obligation pursuant to a covered affiliate credit enhancement that supports the covered direct QFC.
(e)
Definitions relevant to the general creditor protections
—(1)
Covered direct QFC.
Covered direct QFC means a direct QFC to which a covered entity or excluded bank is a party.
(2)
Covered affiliate credit enhancement.
Covered affiliate credit enhancement means an affiliate credit enhancement in which a covered entity or excluded bank is the obligor of the credit enhancement.
(3)
Covered affiliate support provider.
Covered affiliate support provider means, with respect to a covered affiliate credit enhancement, the affiliate of the direct party that is obligated under the covered affiliate credit enhancement and is not a transferee.
(4)
Supported party.
Supported party means, with respect to a covered affiliate credit enhancement and the direct QFC that the covered affiliate credit enhancement supports, a party that is a beneficiary of the covered affiliate support provider's obligation(s) under the covered affiliate credit enhancement.
(f)
Additional creditor protections for supported QFCs.
Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, with respect to a covered direct QFC that is supported by a covered affiliate credit enhancement, the covered direct QFC and the covered affiliate credit enhancement may permit the exercise of a default right after the stay period that is related, directly or indirectly, to the covered affiliate support provider becoming subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding if:
(1) The covered affiliate support provider that remains obligated under the covered affiliate credit enhancement becomes subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding, other than a Chapter 11 proceeding;
(2) Subject to paragraph (h) of this section, the transferee, if any, becomes subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding;
(3) The covered affiliate support provider does not remain, and a transferee does not become, obligated to the same, or substantially similar, extent as the covered affiliate support provider was obligated immediately prior to entering the receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding with respect to:
(i) The covered affiliate credit enhancement;
(ii) All other covered affiliate credit enhancements provided by the covered affiliate support provider in support of other covered direct QFCs between the direct party and the supported party under the covered affiliate credit enhancement referenced in paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section; and
(iii) All covered affiliate credit enhancements provided by the covered affiliate support provider in support of covered direct QFCs between the direct party and affiliates of the supported party referenced in paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section; or
(4) In the case of a transfer of the covered affiliate credit enhancement to a transferee,
(i) All of the ownership interests of the direct party directly or indirectly held by the covered affiliate support provider are not transferred to the transferee; or
(ii) Reasonable assurance has not been provided that all or substantially all of the assets of the covered affiliate support provider (or net proceeds therefrom), excluding any assets reserved for the payment of costs and expenses of administration in the receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding, will be transferred or sold to the transferee in a timely manner.
(g)
Definitions relevant to the additional creditor protections for supported QFCs
—(1)
Stay period.
Stay period means, with respect to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding, the period of time beginning on the commencement of the proceeding and ending at the later of 5:00 p.m. (eastern time) on the business day following the date of the commencement of the proceeding and 48 hours after the commencement of the proceeding.
(2)
Business day.
Business day means a day on which commercial banks in the jurisdiction the proceeding is commenced are open for general business (including dealings in foreign exchange and foreign currency deposits).
(3)
Transferee.
Transferee means a person to whom a covered affiliate credit enhancement is transferred upon the covered affiliate support provider entering a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding or thereafter as part of the resolution, restructuring, or reorganization involving the covered affiliate support provider.
(h)
Creditor protections related to FDI Act proceedings.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (b), (d), and (f) of this section, with respect to a covered direct QFC that is supported by a covered affiliate credit enhancement, the covered direct QFC and the covered affiliate credit enhancement may permit the exercise of a default right that is related, directly or indirectly, to the covered affiliate support provider becoming subject to FDI Act proceedings:
(1) After the FDI Act stay period, if the covered affiliate credit enhancement is not transferred pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1821(e)(9)-(e)(10) and any regulations promulgated thereunder; or
(2) During the FDI Act stay period, if the default right may only be exercised so as to permit the supported party under the covered affiliate credit enhancement to suspend performance with respect to the supported party's obligations under the covered direct QFC to the same extent as the supported party would be entitled to do if the covered direct QFC were with the covered affiliate support provider and were treated in the same manner as the covered affiliate credit enhancement.
(i)
Prohibited terminations.
A covered QFC must require, after an affiliate of the direct party has become subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding:
(1) The party seeking to exercise a default right to bear the burden of proof that the exercise is permitted under the covered QFC; and
(2) Clear and convincing evidence or a similar or higher burden of proof to exercise a default right.
§ 252.85
Approval of enhanced creditor protection conditions.
(a)
Protocol compliance.
(1) Unless the Board determines otherwise based on the specific facts and circumstances, a covered QFC is deemed to comply with this subpart if it is amended by the universal protocol or the U.S. protocol.
(2) A covered QFC will be deemed to be amended by the universal protocol for purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section notwithstanding the covered QFC being amended by one or more Country Annexes, as the term is defined in the universal protocol.
(3) For purposes of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section:
(i) The universal protocol means the ISDA 2015 Universal Resolution Stay Protocol, including the Securities Financing Transaction Annex and Other Agreements Annex, published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., as of May 3, 2016, and minor or technical amendments thereto;
(ii) The U.S. protocol means a protocol that is the same as the universal protocol other than as provided in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(A)-(F) of this section.
(A) The provisions of Section 1 of the attachment to the universal protocol may be limited in their application to covered entities and excluded banks and may be limited with respect to resolutions under the Identified Regimes, as those regimes are identified by the universal protocol;
(B) The provisions of Section 2 of the attachment to the universal protocol may be limited in their application to covered entities and excluded banks;
(C) The provisions of Section 4(b)(i)(A) of the attachment to the universal protocol must not apply with respect to U.S. special resolution regimes;
(D) The provisions of Section 4(b) of the attachment to the universal protocol may only be effective to the extent that the covered QFCs affected by an adherent's election thereunder would continue to meet the requirements of this subpart;
(E) The provisions of Section 2(k) of the attachment to the universal protocol must not apply; and
(F) The U.S. protocol may include minor and technical differences from the universal protocol and differences necessary to conform the U.S. protocol to the differences described in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(A)-(E) of this section;
(iii) Amended by the universal protocol or the U.S. protocol, with respect to covered QFCs between adherents to the protocol, includes amendments through incorporation of the terms of the protocol (by reference or otherwise) into the covered QFC; and
(iv) The attachment to the universal protocol means the attachment that the universal protocol identifies as “ATTACHMENT to the ISDA 2015 UNIVERSAL RESOLUTION STAY PROTOCOL.”
(b)
Proposal of enhanced creditor protection conditions.
(1) A covered entity may request that the Board approve as compliant with the requirements of §§ 252.83 and 252.84 proposed provisions of one or more forms of covered QFCs, or proposed amendments to one or more forms of covered QFCs, with enhanced creditor protection conditions.
(2) Enhanced creditor protection conditions means a set of limited exemptions to the requirements of § 252.84(b) that is different than that of paragraphs (d), (f), and (h) of § 252.84.
(3) A covered entity making a request under paragraph (b)(1) of this section must provide:
(i) An analysis of the proposal that addresses each consideration in paragraph (d) of this section;
(ii) A written legal opinion verifying that proposed provisions or amendments would be valid and enforceable under applicable law of the relevant jurisdictions, including, in the case of proposed amendments, the validity and enforceability of the proposal to amend the covered QFCs; and
(iii) Any other relevant information that the Board requests.
(c)
Board approval.
The Board may approve, subject to any conditions or commitments the Board may set, a proposal by a covered entity under paragraph (b) of this section if the proposal, as compared to a covered QFC that contains only the limited exemptions in paragraphs of (d), (f), and (h) of § 252.84 or that is amended as provided under paragraph (a) of this section, would prevent or mitigate risks to the financial stability of the United States that could arise from the failure of a global systemically important BHC, a global systemically important foreign banking organization, or the subsidiaries of either and would protect the safety and soundness of bank holding companies and state member banks to at least the same extent.
(d)
Considerations.
In reviewing a proposal under this section, the Board may consider all facts and circumstances related to the proposal, including:
(1) Whether, and the extent to which, the proposal would reduce the resiliency of such covered entities during distress or increase the impact on U.S. financial stability were one or more of the covered entities to fail;
(2) Whether, and the extent to which, the proposal would materially decrease the ability of a covered entity, or an affiliate of a covered entity, to be resolved in a rapid and orderly manner in the event of the financial distress or failure of the entity that is required to submit a resolution plan;
(3) Whether, and the extent to which, the set of conditions or the mechanism in which they are applied facilitates, on an industry-wide basis, contractual modifications to remove impediments to resolution and increase market certainty, transparency, and equitable treatment with respect to the default rights of non-defaulting parties to a covered QFC;
(4) Whether, and the extent to which, the proposal applies to existing and future transactions;
(5) Whether, and the extent to which, the proposal would apply to multiple forms of QFCs or multiple covered entities;
(6) Whether the proposal would permit a party to a covered QFC that is within the scope of the proposal to adhere to the proposal with respect to only one or a subset of covered entities;
(7) With respect to a supported party, the degree of assurance the proposal provides to the supported party that the material payment and delivery obligations of the covered affiliate credit enhancement and the covered direct QFC it supports will continue to be performed after the covered affiliate support provider enters a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding;
(8) The presence, nature, and extent of any provisions that require a covered affiliate support provider or transferee to meet conditions other than material payment or delivery obligations to its creditors;
(9) The extent to which the supported party's overall credit risk to the direct party may increase if the enhanced creditor protection conditions are not met and the likelihood that the supported party's credit risk to the direct party would decrease or remain the same if the enhanced creditor protection conditions are met; and
(10) Whether the proposal provides the counterparty with additional default rights or other rights.
§ 252.86
Foreign bank multi-branch master agreements.
(a)
Treatment of foreign bank multi-branch master agreements.
With respect to a U.S. branch or U.S. agency of a global systemically important foreign banking organization, a foreign bank multi-branch master agreement that is a covered QFC solely because the master agreement permits agreements or
transactions that are QFCs to be entered into at one or more U.S. branches or U.S. agencies of the global systemically important foreign banking organization will be considered a covered QFC for purposes of this subpart only with respect to such agreements or transactions booked at such U.S. branches and U.S. agencies.
(b)
Definition of foreign bank multi-branch master agreements.
A foreign bank multi-branch master agreement means a master agreement that permits a U.S. branch or U.S. agency and another place of business of a foreign bank that is outside the United States to enter transactions under the agreement.
§ 252.87
Identification of global systemically important foreign banking organizations.
(a) For purposes of this subpart, a top-tier foreign banking organization that is or controls a covered company (as defined at 12 CFR 243.2(f)) is a global systemically important foreign banking organization if any of the following conditions is met:
(1) The top-tier foreign banking organization determines, pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, that the top-tier foreign banking organization has the characteristics of a global systemically important banking organization under the global methodology; or
(2) The Board, using information available to the Board, determines:
(i) That the top-tier foreign banking organization would be a global systemically important banking organization under the global methodology;
(ii) That the top-tier foreign banking organization, if it were subject to the Board's Regulation Q (part 217 of this chapter), would be identified as a global systemically important BHC under § 217.402 of the Board's Regulation Q; or
(iii) That any U.S. intermediate holding company controlled by the top-tier foreign banking organization, if the U.S. intermediate holding company is or were subject to § 217.402 of the Board's Regulation Q, is or would be identified as a global systemically important BHC.
(b) Each top-tier foreign banking organization that determines pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section that it has the characteristics of a global systemically important banking organization under the global methodology must notify the Board of the determination by January 1 of each calendar year.
(c) A top-tier foreign banking organization that is or controls a covered company (as defined at 12 CFR 243.2(f)) and prepares or reports for any purpose the indicator amounts necessary to determine whether the top-tier foreign banking organization is a global systemically important banking organization under the global methodology must use the data to determine whether the top-tier foreign banking organization has the characteristics of a global systemically important banking organization under the global methodology.
(d) Each top-tier foreign banking organization that controls a U.S. intermediate holding company and that meets the requirements of § 252.153(b)(5) and (6) also meets the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
§ 252.88
Exclusion of certain QFCs.
(a)
Exclusion of QFCs with FMUs.
Notwithstanding § 252.82, a covered entity is not required to conform to the requirements of this subpart a covered QFC to which:
(1) A CCP is party; or
(2) Each party (other than the covered entity) is an FMU.
(b)
Exclusion of certain excluded bank QFCs.
If a covered QFC is also a covered QFC under parts 47 or 382 of this title that an affiliate of the covered entity is also required to conform pursuant to parts 47 or 382 of this title and the covered entity is:
(1) The affiliate credit enhancement provider with respect to the covered QFC, then the covered entity is required to conform the credit enhancement to the requirements of this subpart but is not required to conform the direct QFC to the requirements of this subpart; or
(2) The direct party to which the excluded bank is the affiliate credit enhancement provider, then the covered entity is required to conform the direct QFC to the requirements of this subpart but is not required to conform the credit enhancement to the requirements of this subpart.
(c)
Exclusion of certain contracts.
Notwithstanding § 252.82, a covered entity is not required to conform the following types of contracts or agreements to the requirements of this subpart:
(1) An investment advisory contract that:
(i) Is with a retail customer or counterparty;
(ii) Does not explicitly restrict the transfer of the contract (or any QFC entered pursuant thereto or governed thereby, or any interest or obligation in or under, or any property securing, any such QFC or the contract) from the covered entity except as necessary to comply with section 205(a)(2) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-5(a)(2)); and
(iii) Does not explicitly provide a default right with respect to the contract or any QFC entered pursuant thereto or governed thereby.
(2) A warrant that:
(i) Evidences a right to subscribe to or otherwise acquire a security of the covered entity or an affiliate of the covered entity; and
(ii) Was issued prior to November 13, 2017.
(d)
Exemption by order.
The Board may exempt by order one or more covered entities from conforming one or more contracts or types of contracts to one or more of the requirements of this subpart after considering:
(1) The potential impact of the exemption on the ability of the covered entity(ies), or affiliates of the covered entity(ies), to be resolved in a rapid and orderly manner in the event of the financial distress or failure of the entity that is required to submit a resolution plan;
(2) The burden the exemption would relieve; and
(3) Any other factor the Board deems relevant.
Subparts J-L [Reserved]

# Subpart M—Risk Committee Requirement for Foreign Banking Organizations With Total Consolidated Assets of at Least $50 Billion but Less Than $100 Billion

# Source:
Reg. YY, 79 FR 17323, Mar. 27, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 252.130
[Reserved]
§ 252.131
Applicability.
(a)
General applicability.
A foreign banking organization with average total consolidated assets of at least $50 billion but less than $100 billion must comply with the risk-committee requirements set forth in this subpart beginning on the first day of the ninth quarter following the date on which its average total consolidated assets equal or exceed $50 billion.
(b)
Cessation of requirements.
A foreign banking organization will remain subject to the risk-committee requirements of this section until the earlier of the date on which:
(1) Its total consolidated assets are below $50 billion for each of four consecutive calendar quarters; and
(2) It becomes subject to the requirements of subpart N or subpart O of this part.
[84 FR 59109, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.132
Risk-committee requirements for foreign banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more but less than $100 billion.
(a)
U.S. risk committee certification.
A foreign banking organization subject to this subpart, must, on an annual basis, certify to the Board that it maintains a committee of its global board of directors (or equivalent thereof), on a standalone basis or as part of its enterprise-wide risk committee (or equivalent thereof) that:
(1) Oversees the risk management policies of the combined U.S. operations of the foreign banking organization; and
(2) Includes at least one member having experience in identifying, assessing, and managing risk exposures of large, complex firms.
(b)
Timing of certification.
The certification required under paragraph (a) of this section must be filed on an annual basis with the Board concurrently with the FR Y-7.
(c)
Responsibilities of the foreign banking organization.
The foreign banking organization must take appropriate measures to ensure that its combined U.S. operations implement the risk management policies overseen by the U.S. risk committee described in paragraph (a) of this section, and its combined U.S. operations provide sufficient information to the U.S. risk committee to enable the U.S. risk committee to carry out the responsibilities of this subpart.
(d)
Noncompliance with this section.
If a foreign banking organization does not satisfy the requirements of this section, the Board may impose requirements, conditions, or restrictions relating to the activities or business operations of the combined U.S. operations of the foreign banking organization. The Board will coordinate with any relevant State or Federal regulator in the implementation of such requirements, conditions, or restrictions. If the Board determines to impose one or more requirements, conditions, or restrictions under this paragraph, the Board will notify the organization before it applies any requirement, condition or restriction, and describe the basis for imposing such requirement, condition, or restriction. Within 14 calendar days of receipt of a notification under this paragraph, the company may request in writing that the Board reconsider the requirement, condition, or restriction. The Board will respond in writing to the organization's request for reconsideration prior to applying the requirement, condition, or restriction.
[Reg. YY, 79 FR 17323, Mar. 27, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 59109, Nov. 1, 2019]

# Subpart N—Enhanced Prudential Standards for Foreign Banking Organizations With Total Consolidated Assets of $100 Billion or More and Combined U.S. Assets of Less Than $100 Billion

# Source:
Reg. YY, 79 FR 17324, Mar. 27, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 252.140
Scope.
This subpart applies to foreign banking organizations with average total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more, but average combined U.S. assets of less than $100 billion.
[84 FR 59110, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.142
Applicability.
(a)
General applicability.
A foreign banking organization with average total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more and average combined U.S. assets of less than $100 billion must:
(1) Comply with the capital stress testing, risk-management and risk-committee requirements set forth in this subpart beginning no later than on the first day of the ninth quarter the date on which its average total consolidated assets equal or exceed $100 billion; and
(2) Comply with the risk-based and leverage capital requirements and liquidity risk-management requirements set forth in this subpart beginning no later than on the first day of the ninth quarter following the date on which its total consolidated assets equal or exceed $250 billion; and
(3) Comply with the U.S. intermediate holding company requirement set forth in § 252.147 beginning no later than on the first day of the ninth quarter following the date on which its average U.S. non-branch assets equal or exceed $50 billion.
(b)
Cessation of requirements
—(1)
Enhanced prudential standards applicable to the foreign banking organization.
(i) A foreign banking organization will remain subject to the requirements set forth in §§ 252.144 and 252.146 until its total consolidated assets are below $100 billion for each of four consecutive calendar quarters, or it becomes subject
to the requirements of subpart O of this part.
(ii) A foreign banking organization will remain subject to the requirements set forth in §§ 252.143 and 252.145 until its total consolidated assets are below $250 billion for each of four consecutive calendar quarters, or it becomes subject to the requirements of subpart O of this part.
(2)
Intermediate holding company requirement.
A foreign banking organization will remain subject to the U.S. intermediate holding company requirement set forth in § 252.147 until the sum of the total consolidated assets of the top-tier U.S. subsidiaries of the foreign banking organization (excluding any section 2(h)(2) company and DPC branch subsidiary) is below $50 billion for each of four consecutive calendar quarters, or it becomes subject to the U.S. intermediate holding company requirements of subpart O of this part.
[84 FR 59110, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.143
Risk-based and leverage capital requirements for foreign banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more and combined U.S. assets of less than $100 billion.
(a)
General requirements.
(1) A foreign banking organization subject to this subpart and with average total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more must certify to the Board that it meets capital adequacy standards on a consolidated basis established by its home-country supervisor that are consistent with the regulatory capital framework published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, as amended from time to time (Basel Capital Framework).
(i) For purposes of this paragraph, home-country capital adequacy standards that are consistent with the Basel Capital Framework include all minimum risk-based capital ratios, any minimum leverage ratio, and all restrictions based on any applicable capital buffers set forth in “Basel III: A global regulatory framework for more resilient banks and banking systems” (2010) (Basel III Accord), each as applicable and as implemented in accordance with the Basel III Accord, including any transitional provisions set forth therein.
(ii) [Reserved]
(2) In the event that a home-country supervisor has not established capital adequacy standards that are consistent with the Basel Capital Framework, the foreign banking organization must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Board that it would meet or exceed capital adequacy standards on a consolidated basis that are consistent with the Basel Capital Framework were it subject to such standards.
(b)
Reporting.
A foreign banking organization subject to this subpart and with average total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more must provide to the Board reports relating to its compliance with the capital adequacy measures described in paragraph (a) of this section concurrently with filing the FR Y-7Q.
(c)
Noncompliance with the Basel Capital Framework.
If a foreign banking organization does not satisfy the requirements of this section, the Board may impose requirements, conditions, or restrictions, including risk-based or leverage capital requirements, relating to the activities or business operations of the U.S. operations of the organization. The Board will coordinate with any relevant State or Federal regulator in the implementation of such requirements, conditions, or restrictions. If the Board determines to impose one or more requirements, conditions, or restrictions under this paragraph, the Board will notify the organization before it applies any requirement, condition or restriction, and describe the basis for imposing such requirement, condition, or restriction. Within 14 calendar days of receipt of a notification under this paragraph, the organization may request in writing that the Board reconsider the requirement, condition, or restriction. The Board will respond in writing to the organization's request for reconsideration prior to applying the requirement, condition, or restriction.
[Reg. YY, 79 FR 17324, Mar. 27, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 59110, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.144
Risk-management and risk-committee requirements for foreign banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more but combined U.S. assets of less than $100 billion.
(a)
Risk-management and risk-committee requirements for foreign banking organizations with combined U.S. assets of less than $50 billion
—(1)
U.S. risk committee certification.
A foreign banking organization with average combined U.S. assets of less than $50 billion must, on an annual basis, certify to the Board that it maintains a committee of its global board of directors (or equivalent thereof), on a standalone basis or as part of its enterprise-wide risk committee (or equivalent thereof) that:
(i) Oversees the risk-management policies of the combined U.S. operations of the foreign banking organization; and
(ii) Includes at least one member having experience in identifying, assessing, and managing risk exposures of large, complex firms.
(2)
Timing of certification.
The certification required under paragraph (a) of this section must be filed on an annual basis with the Board concurrently with the FR Y-7.
(b)
Risk-management and risk-committee requirements for foreign banking organizations with combined U.S. assets of $50 billion or more but less than $100 billion
—(1)
U.S. risk committee
—(i)
General.
A foreign banking organization subject to this this subpart and with average combined U.S. assets of $50 billion or more must maintain a U.S. risk committee that approves and periodically reviews the risk-management policies of the combined U.S. operations of the foreign banking organization and oversees the risk-management framework of such combined U.S. operations.
(ii)
Risk-management framework.
The foreign banking organization's risk-management framework for its combined U.S. operations must be commensurate with the structure, risk profile, complexity, activities, and size of its combined U.S. operations and consistent with its enterprise-wide risk management policies. The framework must include:
(A) Policies and procedures establishing risk-management governance, risk-management procedures, and risk-control infrastructure for the combined U.S. operations of the foreign banking organization; and
(B) Processes and systems for implementing and monitoring compliance with such policies and procedures, including:
(
1
) Processes and systems for identifying and reporting risks and risk-management deficiencies, including regarding emerging risks, on a combined U.S. operations basis and ensuring effective and timely implementation of actions to address emerging risks and risk-management deficiencies;
(
2
) Processes and systems for establishing managerial and employee responsibility for risk management of the combined U.S. operations;
(
3
) Processes and systems for ensuring the independence of the risk-management function of the combined U.S. operations; and
(
4
) Processes and systems to integrate risk management and associated controls with management goals and the compensation structure of the combined U.S. operations.
(iii)
Placement of the U.S. risk committee.
(A) A foreign banking organization that conducts its operations in the United States solely through a U.S. intermediate holding company must maintain its U.S. risk committee as a committee of the board of directors of its U.S. intermediate holding company (or equivalent thereof).
(B) A foreign banking organization that conducts its operations through U.S. branches or U.S. agencies (in addition to through its U.S. intermediate holding company, if any) may maintain its U.S. risk committee either:
(
1
) As a committee of the global board of directors (or equivalent thereof), on a standalone basis or as a joint committee with its enterprise-wide risk committee (or equivalent thereof); or
(
2
) As a committee of the board of directors of its U.S. intermediate holding company (or equivalent thereof), on a standalone basis or as a joint committee with the risk committee of its U.S. intermediate holding company required pursuant to § 252.147(e)(3).
(iv)
Corporate governance requirements.
The U.S. risk committee must meet at least quarterly and otherwise as needed, and must fully document and maintain records of its proceedings, including risk-management decisions.
(v)
Minimum member requirements.
The U.S. risk committee must:
(A) Include at least one member having experience in identifying, assessing, and managing risk exposures of large, complex financial firms; and
(B) Have at least one member who:
(
1
) Is not an officer or employee of the foreign banking organization or its affiliates and has not been an officer or employee of the foreign banking organization or its affiliates during the previous three years; and
(
2
) Is not a member of the immediate family, as defined in 12 CFR 225.41(b)(3), of a person who is, or has been within the last three years, an executive officer, as defined in 12 CFR 215.2(e)(1) of the foreign banking organization or its affiliates.
(2) [Reserved]
(c)
U.S. chief risk officer
—(1)
General.
A foreign banking organization with average combined U.S. assets of $50 billion or more but less than $100 billion or its U.S. intermediate holding company, if any, must appoint a U.S. chief risk officer with experience in identifying, assessing, and managing risk exposures of large, complex financial firms.
(2)
Responsibilities.
(i) The U.S. chief risk officer is responsible for overseeing:
(A) The measurement, aggregation, and monitoring of risks undertaken by the combined U.S. operations;
(B) The implementation of and ongoing compliance with the policies and procedures for the foreign banking organization's combined U.S. operations set forth in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) of this section and the development and implementation of processes and systems set forth in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(B) of this section; and
(C) The management of risks and risk controls within the parameters of the risk-control framework for the combined U.S. operations, and the monitoring and testing of such risk controls.
(ii) The U.S. chief risk officer is responsible for reporting risks and risk-management deficiencies of the combined U.S. operations, and resolving such risk-management deficiencies in a timely manner.
(3)
Corporate governance and reporting.
The U.S. chief risk officer must:
(i) Receive compensation and other incentives consistent with providing an objective assessment of the risks taken by the combined U.S. operations of the foreign banking organization;
(ii) Be employed by and located in the U.S. branch, U.S. agency, U.S. intermediate holding company, if any, or another U.S. subsidiary;
(iii) Report directly to the U.S. risk committee and the global chief risk officer or equivalent management official (or officials) of the foreign banking organization who is responsible for overseeing, on an enterprise-wide basis, the implementation of and compliance with policies and procedures relating to risk-management governance, practices, and risk controls of the foreign banking organization unless the Board approves an alternative reporting structure based on circumstances specific to the foreign banking organization;
(iv) Regularly provide information to the U.S. risk committee, global chief risk officer, and the Board regarding the nature of and changes to material risks undertaken by the foreign banking organization's combined U.S. operations, including risk-management deficiencies and emerging risks, and how such risks relate to the global operations of the foreign banking organization; and
(v) Meet regularly and as needed with the Board to assess compliance with the requirements of this section.
(d)
Responsibilities of the foreign banking organization.
The foreign banking organization must take appropriate measures to ensure that its combined U.S. operations implement the risk-management policies overseen by the U.S. risk committee described in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, and its combined U.S. operations provide sufficient information to the U.S. risk committee to enable the U.S. risk committee to carry out the responsibilities of this subpart.
(e)
Noncompliance with this section.
If a foreign banking organization does not satisfy the requirements of this section, the Board may impose requirements, conditions, or restrictions relating to the activities or business operations of the combined U.S. operations of the foreign banking organization. The Board will coordinate with any relevant State or Federal regulator in the implementation of such requirements, conditions, or restrictions. If the Board determines to impose one or more requirements, conditions, or restrictions under this paragraph, the Board will notify the organization before it applies any requirement, condition, or restriction, and describe the basis for imposing such requirement, condition, or restriction. Within 14 calendar days of receipt of a notification under this paragraph, the organization may request in writing that the Board reconsider the requirement, condition, or restriction. The Board will respond in writing to the organization's request for reconsideration prior to applying the requirement, condition, or restriction.
[84 FR 59110, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.145
Liquidity risk-management requirements for foreign banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more and combined U.S. assets of less than $100 billion.
(a) A foreign banking organization subject to this subpart with average total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more must report to the Board on an annual basis the results of an internal liquidity stress test for either the consolidated operations of the foreign banking organization or the combined U.S. operations of the foreign banking organization. Such liquidity stress test must be conducted consistent with the Basel Committee principles for liquidity risk management and must incorporate 30-day, 90-day, and one-year stress-test horizons. The “Basel Committee principles for liquidity risk management” means the document titled “Principles for Sound Liquidity Risk Management and Supervision” (September 2008) as published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, as supplemented and revised from time to time.
(b) A foreign banking organization that does not comply with paragraph (a) of this section must limit the net aggregate amount owed by the foreign banking organization's non-U.S. offices and its non-U.S. affiliates to the combined U.S. operations to 25 percent or less of the third party liabilities of its combined U.S. operations, on a daily basis.
[Reg. YY, 79 FR 17324, Mar. 27, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 59111, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.146
Capital stress testing requirements for foreign banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more and combined U.S. assets of less than $100 billion.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Eligible asset
means any asset of the U.S. branch or U.S. agency held in the United States that is recorded on the general ledger of a U.S. branch or U.S. agency of the foreign banking organization (reduced by the amount of any specifically allocated reserves held in the United States and recorded on the general ledger of the U.S. branch or U.S. agency in connection with such assets), subject to the following exclusions and, for purposes of this definition, as modified by the rules of valuation set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.
(i) The following assets do not qualify as eligible assets:
(A) Equity securities;
(B) Any assets classified as loss at the preceding examination by a regulatory agency, outside accountant, or the bank's internal loan review staff;
(C) Accrued income on assets classified loss, doubtful, substandard or value impaired, at the preceding examination by a regulatory agency, outside accountant, or the bank's internal loan review staff;
(D) Any amounts due from the home office, other offices and affiliates, including income accrued but uncollected on such amounts;
(E) The balance from time to time of any other asset or asset category disallowed at the preceding examination
or by direction of the Board for any other reason until the underlying reasons for the disallowance have been removed;
(F) Prepaid expenses and unamortized costs, furniture and fixtures and leasehold improvements; and
(G) Any other asset that the Board determines should not qualify as an eligible asset.
(ii) The following rules of valuation apply:
(A) A marketable debt security is valued at its principal amount or market value, whichever is lower;
(B) An asset classified doubtful or substandard at the preceding examination by a regulatory agency, outside accountant, or the bank's internal loan review staff, is valued at 50 percent and 80 percent, respectively;
(C) With respect to an asset classified value impaired, the amount representing the allocated transfer risk reserve that would be required for such exposure at a domestically chartered bank is valued at 0 and the residual exposure is valued at 80 percent; and
(D) Real estate located in the United States and carried on the accounting records as an asset are valued at net book value or appraised value, whichever is less.
(2)
Liabilities of all U.S. branches and agencies of a foreign banking organization
means all liabilities of all U.S. branches and agencies of the foreign banking organization, including acceptances and any other liabilities (including contingent liabilities), but excluding:
(i) Amounts due to and other liabilities to other offices, agencies, branches and affiliates of such foreign banking organization, including its head office, including unremitted profits; and
(ii) Reserves for possible loan losses and other contingencies.
(3)
Pre-provision net revenue
means revenue less expenses before adjusting for total loan loss provisions.
(4)
Stress test cycle
has the same meaning as in subpart F of this part.
(5)
Total loan loss provisions
means the amount needed to make reserves adequate to absorb estimated credit losses, based upon management's evaluation of the loans and leases that the company has the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable future or until maturity or payoff, as determined under applicable accounting standards.
(b)
In general.
(1) A foreign banking organization subject to this subpart must:
(i) Be subject on a consolidated basis to a capital stress testing regime by its home-country supervisor that meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and
(ii) Conduct such stress tests or be subject to a supervisory stress test and meet any minimum standards set by its home-country supervisor with respect to the stress tests.
(2) The capital stress testing regime of a foreign banking organization's home-country supervisor must include:
(i) A supervisory capital stress test conducted by the foreign banking organization's home-country supervisor or an evaluation and review by the foreign banking organization's home-country supervisor of an internal capital adequacy stress test conducted by the foreign banking organization, according to the frequency specified in the following paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) or (B) of this section:
(A) If the foreign banking organization has average total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more, on at least an annual basis; or
(B) If the foreign banking organization has average total consolidated assets of less than $250 billion, at least biennially; and
(ii) Requirements for governance and controls of stress testing practices by relevant management and the board of directors (or equivalent thereof) of the foreign banking organization;
(c)
Additional standards.
(1) Unless the Board otherwise determines in writing, a foreign banking organization that does not meet each of the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section must:
(i) Maintain eligible assets in its U.S. branches and agencies that, on a daily basis, are not less than 105 percent of the average value over each day of the previous calendar quarter of the total liabilities of all branches and agencies operated by the foreign banking organization in the United States;
(ii) Conduct a stress test of its U.S. subsidiaries to determine whether those subsidiaries have the capital necessary to absorb losses as a result of adverse economic conditions, according to the frequency specified in paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section:
(A) If the foreign banking organization has average total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more, on at least an annual basis; or
(B) If the foreign banking organization has average total consolidated assets of less than $250 billion, at least biennially; and
(iii) Report a summary of the results of the stress test to the Board that includes a description of the types of risks included in the stress test, a description of the conditions or scenarios used in the stress test, a summary description of the methodologies used in the stress test, estimates of aggregate losses, pre-provision net revenue, total loan loss provisions, net income before taxes and pro forma regulatory capital ratios required to be computed by the home-country supervisor of the foreign banking organization and any other relevant capital ratios, and an explanation of the most significant causes for any changes in regulatory capital ratios.
(2) An enterprise-wide stress test that is approved by the Board may meet the stress test requirement of paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.
[Reg. YY, 79 FR 17324, Mar. 27, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 59112, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.147
U.S. intermediate holding company requirement for foreign banking organizations with combined U.S. assets of less than $100 billion and U.S. non-branch assets of $50 billion or more.
(a)
Requirement to form a U.S. intermediate holding company
—(1)
Formation.
A foreign banking organization with average U.S. non-branch assets of $50 billion or more must establish a U.S. intermediate holding company, or designate an existing subsidiary that meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, as its U.S. intermediate holding company.
(2)
Structure.
The U.S. intermediate holding company must be:
(i) Organized under the laws of the United States, any one of the fifty states of the United States, or the District of Columbia; and
(ii) Be governed by a board of directors or managers that is elected or appointed by the owners and that operates in an equivalent manner, and has equivalent rights, powers, privileges, duties, and responsibilities, to a board of directors of a company chartered as a corporation under the laws of the United States, any one of the fifty states of the United States, or the District of Columbia.
(3)
Notice.
Within 30 days of establishing or designating a U.S. intermediate holding company under this section, a foreign banking organization must provide to the Board:
(i) A description of the U.S. intermediate holding company, including its name, location, corporate form, and organizational structure;
(ii) A certification that the U.S. intermediate holding company meets the requirements of this section; and
(iii) Any other information that the Board determines is appropriate.
(b)
Holdings and regulation of the U.S. intermediate holding company
—(1)
General.
Subject to paragraph (c) of this section, a foreign banking organization that is required to form a U.S. intermediate holding company under paragraph (a) of this section must hold its entire ownership interest in any U.S. subsidiary (excluding each section 2(h)(2) company or DPC branch subsidiary, if any) through its U.S. intermediate holding company.
(2)
Reporting.
Each U.S. intermediate holding company shall submit information in the manner and form prescribed by the Board.
(3)
Examinations and inspections.
The Board may examine or inspect any U.S. intermediate holding company and each of its subsidiaries and prepare a report of their operations and activities.
(4)
Global systemically important banking organizations.
For purposes of this part, a top-tier foreign banking organization with average U.S. non-branch assets that equal or exceed $50 billion is a global systemically important foreign banking organization if any of the following conditions are met:
(i) The top-tier foreign banking organization determines, pursuant to paragraph (b)(6) of this section, that the top-tier foreign banking organization has the characteristics of a global systemically important banking organization under the global methodology; or
(ii) The Board, using information available to the Board, determines:
(A) That the top-tier foreign banking organization would be a global systemically important banking organization under the global methodology;
(B) That the top-tier foreign banking organization, if it were subject to the Board's Regulation Q, would be identified as a global systemically important BHC under 12 CFR 217.402; or
(C) That the U.S. intermediate holding company, if it were subject to 12 CFR 217.402, would be identified as a global systemically important BHC.
(5)
Notice.
Each top-tier foreign banking organization that controls a U.S. intermediate holding company shall submit to the Board by January 1 of each calendar year through the U.S. intermediate holding company:
(i) Notice of whether the home-country supervisor (or other appropriate home country regulatory authority) of the top-tier foreign banking organization of the U.S. intermediate holding company has adopted standards consistent with the global methodology; and
(ii) Notice of whether the top-tier foreign banking organization prepares or reports the indicators used by the global methodology to identify a banking organization as a global systemically important banking organization and, if it does, whether the top-tier foreign banking organization has determined that it has the characteristics of a global systemically important banking organization under the global methodology pursuant to paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(6)
Global systemically important banking organization under the global methodology.
A top-tier foreign banking organization that controls a U.S. intermediate holding company and prepares or reports for any purpose the indicator amounts necessary to determine whether the top-tier foreign banking organization is a global systemically important banking organization under the global methodology must use the data to determine whether the top-tier foreign banking organization has the characteristics of a global systemically important banking organization under the global methodology.
(c)
Alternative organizational structure
—(1)
General.
Upon a written request by a foreign banking organization, the Board may permit the foreign banking organization to: Establish or designate multiple U.S. intermediate holding companies; not transfer its ownership interests in certain subsidiaries to a U.S. intermediate holding company; or use an alternative organizational structure to hold its combined U.S. operations.
(2)
Factors.
In making a determination under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Board may consider whether applicable law would prohibit the foreign banking organization from owning or controlling one or more of its U.S. subsidiaries through a single U.S. intermediate holding company, or whether circumstances otherwise warrant an exception based on the foreign banking organization's activities, scope of operations, structure, or similar considerations.
(3)
Request
—(i)
Contents.
A request submitted under this section must include an explanation of why the request should be granted and any other information required by the Board.
(ii)
Timing.
The Board shall act on a request for an alternative organizational structure within 90 days of receipt of a complete request, unless the Board provides notice to the organization that it is extending the period for action.
(4)
Conditions.
The Board may grant relief under this section upon such conditions as the Board deems appropriate, including, but not limited to, requiring the U.S. operations of the foreign banking organization to comply with additional enhanced prudential standards, or requiring the foreign banking organization to enter into supervisory agreements governing such alternative organizational structure.
(d)
Modifications.
The Board may modify the application of any section of this subpart to a foreign banking organization that is required to form a U.S. intermediate holding company or
to such U.S. intermediate holding company if appropriate to accommodate the organizational structure of the foreign banking organization or characteristics specific to such foreign banking organization and such modification is appropriate and consistent with the capital structure, size, complexity, risk profile, scope of operations, or financial condition of each U.S. intermediate holding company, safety and soundness, and the financial stability mandate of section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act.
(e)
Enhanced prudential standards for U.S. intermediate holding companies
—(1)
Capital requirements for a U.S. intermediate holding company.
(i)(A) A U.S. intermediate holding company must comply with 12 CFR part 217, other than subpart E of 12 CFR part 217, in the same manner as a bank holding company.
(B) A U.S. intermediate holding company may choose to comply with subpart E of 12 CFR part 217.
(ii) A U.S. intermediate holding company must comply with capital adequacy standards beginning on the date it is required to established under this subpart, or if the U.S. intermediate holding company is subject to capital adequacy standards on the date that the foreign banking organization becomes subject to § 252.142(a)(3), on the date that the foreign banking organization becomes subject to this subpart.
(2)
Risk-management and risk-committee requirements
—(i)
General.
A U.S. intermediate holding company must establish and maintain a risk committee that approves and periodically reviews the risk-management policies and oversees the risk-management framework of the U.S. intermediate holding company. The risk committee must be a committee of the board of directors of the U.S. intermediate holding company (or equivalent thereof). The risk committee may also serve as the U.S. risk committee for the combined U.S. operations required pursuant to § 252.144(b).
(ii)
Risk-management framework.
The U.S. intermediate holding company's risk-management framework must be commensurate with the structure, risk profile, complexity, activities, and size of the U.S. intermediate holding company and consistent with the risk management policies for the combined U.S. operations of the foreign banking organization. The framework must include:
(A) Policies and procedures establishing risk-management governance, risk-management procedures, and risk-control infrastructure for the U.S. intermediate holding company; and
(B) Processes and systems for implementing and monitoring compliance with such policies and procedures, including:
(
1
) Processes and systems for identifying and reporting risks and risk-management deficiencies at the U.S. intermediate holding company, including regarding emerging risks and ensuring effective and timely implementation of actions to address emerging risks and risk-management deficiencies;
(
2
) Processes and systems for establishing managerial and employee responsibility for risk management of the U.S. intermediate holding company;
(
3
) Processes and systems for ensuring the independence of the risk-management function of the U.S. intermediate holding company; and
(
4
) Processes and systems to integrate risk management and associated controls with management goals and the compensation structure of the U.S. intermediate holding company.
(iii)
Corporate governance requirements.
The risk committee of the U.S. intermediate holding company must meet at least quarterly and otherwise as needed, and must fully document and maintain records of its proceedings, including risk-management decisions.
(iv)
Minimum member requirements.
The risk committee must:
(A) Include at least one member having experience in identifying, assessing, and managing risk exposures of large, complex financial firms; and
(B) Have at least one member who:
(
1
) Is not an officer or employee of the foreign banking organization or its affiliates and has not been an officer or employee of the foreign banking organization or its affiliates during the previous three years; and
(
2
) Is not a member of the immediate family, as defined in 12 CFR 225.41(b)(3), of a person who is, or has been within
the last three years, an executive officer, as defined in 12 CFR 215.2(e)(1), of the foreign banking organization or its affiliates.
(v) The U.S. intermediate holding company must take appropriate measures to ensure that it implements the risk-management policies for the U.S. intermediate holding company and it provides sufficient information to the U.S. risk committee to enable the U.S. risk committee to carry out the responsibilities of this subpart;
(vi) A U.S. intermediate holding company must comply with risk-committee and risk-management requirements beginning on the date that it is required to be established or designated under this subpart or, if the U.S. intermediate holding company is subject to risk-committee and risk-management requirements on the date that the foreign banking organization becomes subject to § 252.147(a)(3), on the date that the foreign banking organization becomes subject to this subpart.
[84 FR 59112, Nov. 1, 2019]

# Subpart O—Enhanced Prudential Standards for Foreign Banking Organizations With Total Consolidated Assets of $100 Billion or More and Combined U.S. Assets of $100 Billion or More

# Source:
Reg. YY, 79 FR 17326, Mar. 27, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 252.150
Scope.
This subpart applies to foreign banking organizations with average total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more and average combined U.S. assets of $100 billion or more.
[84 FR 59114, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.151
[Reserved]
§ 252.152
Applicability.
(a)
General applicability.
(1) A foreign banking organization must:
(i) Comply with the requirements of this subpart (other than the U.S. intermediate holding company requirement set forth in § 252.153) beginning on the first day of the ninth quarter following the date on which its average combined U.S. assets equal or exceed $100 billion; and
(ii) Comply with the requirement to establish or designate a U.S. intermediate holding company requirement set forth in § 252.153(a) beginning on the first day of the ninth quarter following the date on which its average U.S. non-branch assets equal or exceed $50 billion or, if the foreign banking organization has established or designated a U.S. intermediate holding company pursuant to § 252.147, beginning on the first day following the date on which the foreign banking organization's average combined U.S. assets equal or exceed $100 billion.
(2)
Changes in requirements following a change in category.
A foreign banking organization that changes from one category of banking organization described in § 252.5(c) through (e) to another of such categories must comply with the requirements applicable to the new category under this subpart no later than on the first day of the second quarter following the change in the foreign banking organization's category.
(b)
Cessation of requirements
—(1)
Enhanced prudential standards applicable to the foreign banking organization.
Subject to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a foreign banking organization will remain subject to the applicable requirements of this subpart until its combined U.S. assets are below $100 billion for each of four consecutive calendar quarters.
(2)
Intermediate holding company requirement.
A foreign banking organization will remain subject to the U.S. intermediate holding company requirement set forth in § 252.153 until the sum of the total consolidated assets of the top-tier U.S. subsidiaries of the foreign banking organization (excluding any section 2(h)(2) company and DPC branch subsidiary) is below $50 billion for each of four consecutive calendar quarters, or until the foreign banking organization is subject to subpart N of this part and is in compliance with the U.S. intermediate holding company requirements as set forth in § 252.147.
[84 FR 59114, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.153
U.S. intermediate holding company requirement for foreign banking organizations with combined U.S. assets of $100 billion or more and U.S. non-branch assets of $50 billion or more.
(a)
Requirement to form a U.S. intermediate holding company
—(1)
Formation.
A foreign banking organization with average U.S. non-branch assets of $50 billion or more must establish a U.S. intermediate holding company, or designate an existing subsidiary that meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, as its U.S. intermediate holding company.
(2)
Structure.
The U.S. intermediate holding company must be:
(i) Organized under the laws of the United States, any one of the fifty states of the United States, or the District of Columbia; and
(ii) Be governed by a board of directors or managers that is elected or appointed by the owners and that operates in an equivalent manner, and has equivalent rights, powers, privileges, duties, and responsibilities, to a board of directors of a company chartered as a corporation under the laws of the United States, any one of the fifty states of the United States, or the District of Columbia.
(3)
Notice.
Within 30 days of establishing or designating a U.S. intermediate holding company under this section, a foreign banking organization must provide to the Board:
(i) A description of the U.S. intermediate holding company, including its name, location, corporate form, and organizational structure;
(ii) A certification that the U.S. intermediate holding company meets the requirements of this section; and
(iii) Any other information that the Board determines is appropriate.
(b)
Holdings and regulation of the U.S. intermediate holding company
—(1)
General.
Subject to paragraph (c) of this section, a foreign banking organization that is required to form a U.S. intermediate holding company under paragraph (a) of this section must hold its entire ownership interest in any U.S. subsidiary (excluding each section 2(h)(2) company or DPC branch subsidiary, if any) through its U.S. intermediate holding company.
(2)
Reporting.
Each U.S. intermediate holding company shall submit information in the manner and form prescribed by the Board.
(3)
Examinations and inspections.
The Board may examine or inspect any U.S. intermediate holding company and each of its subsidiaries and prepare a report of their operations and activities.
(4) For purposes of this part, a top-tier foreign banking organization with U.S. non-branch assets that equal or exceed $50 billion is a global systemically important foreign banking organization if any of the following conditions are met:
(i) The top-tier foreign banking organization determines, pursuant to paragraph (b)(6) of this section, that the top-tier foreign banking organization has the characteristics of a global systemically important banking organization under the global methodology; or
(ii) The Board, using information available to the Board, determines:
(A) That the top-tier foreign banking organization would be a global systemically important banking organization under the global methodology;
(B) That the top-tier foreign banking organization, if it were subject to the Board's Regulation Q, would be identified as a global systemically important BHC under 12 CFR 217.402 of the Board's Regulation Q; or
(C) That the U.S. intermediate holding company, if it were subject to 12 CFR 217.402 of the Board's Regulation Q, would be identified as a global systemically important BHC.
(5) Each top-tier foreign banking organization that controls a U.S. intermediate holding company shall submit to the Board by January 1 of each calendar year through the U.S. intermediate holding company:
(i) Notice of whether the home country supervisor (or other appropriate home country regulatory authority) of the top-tier foreign banking organization of the U.S. intermediate holding company has adopted standards consistent with the global methodology; and
(ii) Notice of whether the top-tier foreign banking organization prepares or reports the indicators used by the
global methodology to identify a banking organization as a global systemically important banking organization and, if it does, whether the top-tier foreign banking organization has determined that it has the characteristics of a global systemically important banking organization under the global methodology pursuant to paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(6) A top-tier foreign banking organization that controls a U.S. intermediate holding company and prepares or reports for any purpose the indicator amounts necessary to determine whether the top-tier foreign banking organization is a global systemically important banking organization under the global methodology must use the data to determine whether the top-tier foreign banking organization has the characteristics of a global systemically important banking organization under the global methodology.
(c)
Alternative organizational structure
—(1)
General.
Upon a written request by a foreign banking organization, the Board may permit the foreign banking organization to: Establish or designate multiple U.S. intermediate holding companies; not transfer its ownership interests in certain subsidiaries to a U.S. intermediate holding company; or use an alternative organizational structure to hold its combined U.S. operations.
(2)
Factors.
In making a determination under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Board may consider whether applicable law would prohibit the foreign banking organization from owning or controlling one or more of its U.S. subsidiaries through a single U.S. intermediate holding company, or whether circumstances otherwise warrant an exception based on the foreign banking organization's activities, scope of operations, structure, or other similar considerations.
(3)
Request
—(i)
Contents.
A request submitted under this section must include an explanation of why the request should be granted and any other information required by the Board.
(ii)
Timing.
The Board will act on a request for an alternative organizational structure within 90 days of receipt of a complete request, unless the Board provides notice to the organization that it is extending the period for action.
(4)
Conditions.
(i) The Board may grant relief under this section upon such conditions as the Board deems appropriate, including, but not limited to, requiring the U.S. operations of the foreign banking organization to comply with additional enhanced prudential standards, or requiring the foreign banking organization to enter into supervisory agreements governing such alternative organizational structure.
(ii) If the Board permits a foreign banking organization to form two or more U.S. intermediate holding companies under this section, each U.S. intermediate holding company must determine its category pursuant to § 252.5 of this part as though the U.S. intermediate holding companies were a consolidated company.
(d)
Modifications.
The Board may modify the application of any section of this subpart to a foreign banking organization that is required to form a U.S. intermediate holding company or to such U.S. intermediate holding company if appropriate to accommodate the organizational structure of the foreign banking organization or characteristics specific to such foreign banking organization and such modification is appropriate and consistent with the capital structure, size, complexity, risk profile, scope of operations, or financial condition of each U.S. intermediate holding company, safety and soundness, and the mandate of section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act.
(e)
Enhanced prudential standards for U.S. intermediate holding companies
—(1)
Capital requirements for a U.S. intermediate holding company.
(i)(A) A U.S. intermediate holding company must comply with 12 CFR part 217, other than subpart E of 12 CFR part 217, in the same manner as a bank holding company.
(B) A U.S. intermediate holding company may choose to comply with subpart E of 12 CFR part 217.
(ii) A U.S. intermediate holding company must comply with applicable capital adequacy standards beginning on the date that it is required to be established or designated under this subpart or, if the U.S. intermediate holding company is subject to capital adequacy
standards on the date that the foreign banking organization becomes subject to paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, on the date that the foreign banking organization becomes subject to this subpart.
(2)
Capital planning.
(i) A U.S. intermediate holding company with total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more must comply with 12 CFR 225.8 in the same manner as a bank holding company.
(ii) A U.S. intermediate holding company with total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more must comply with 12 CFR 225.8 on the date prescribed in the transition provisions of 12 CFR 225.8.
(3)
Risk-management and risk committee requirements
—(i)
General.
A U.S. intermediate holding company must establish and maintain a risk committee that approves and periodically reviews the risk-management policies and oversees the risk-management framework of the U.S. intermediate holding company. The risk committee must be a committee of the board of directors of the U.S. intermediate holding company (or equivalent thereof). The risk committee may also serve as the U.S. risk committee for the combined U.S. operations required pursuant to § 252.155(a).
(ii)
Risk-management framework.
The U.S. intermediate holding company's risk-management framework must be commensurate with the structure, risk profile, complexity, activities, and size of the U.S. intermediate holding company and consistent with the risk management policies for the combined U.S. operations of the foreign banking organization. The framework must include:
(A) Policies and procedures establishing risk-management governance, risk-management procedures, and risk-control infrastructure for the U.S. intermediate holding company; and
(B) Processes and systems for implementing and monitoring compliance with such policies and procedures, including:
(
1
) Processes and systems for identifying and reporting risks and risk-management deficiencies at the U.S. intermediate holding company, including regarding emerging risks and ensuring effective and timely implementation of actions to address emerging risks and risk-management deficiencies;
(
2
) Processes and systems for establishing managerial and employee responsibility for risk management of the U.S. intermediate holding company;
(
3
) Processes and systems for ensuring the independence of the risk-management function of the U.S. intermediate holding company; and
(
4
) Processes and systems to integrate risk management and associated controls with management goals and the compensation structure of the U.S. intermediate holding company.
(iii)
Corporate governance requirements.
The risk committee of the U.S. intermediate holding company must meet at least quarterly and otherwise as needed, and must fully document and maintain records of its proceedings, including risk-management decisions.
(iv)
Minimum member requirements.
The risk committee must:
(A) Include at least one member having experience in identifying, assessing, and managing risk exposures of large, complex financial firms; and
(B) Have at least one member who:
(
1
) Is not an officer or employee of the foreign banking organization or its affiliates and has not been an officer or employee of the foreign banking organization or its affiliates during the previous three years; and
(
2
) Is not a member of the immediate family, as defined in 12 CFR 225.41(b)(3), of a person who is, or has been within the last three years, an executive officer, as defined in 12 CFR 215.2(e)(1), of the foreign banking organization or its affiliates.
(v) The U.S. intermediate holding company must take appropriate measures to ensure that it implements the risk-management policies for the U.S. intermediate holding company and it provides sufficient information to the U.S. risk committee to enable the U.S. risk committee to carry out the responsibilities of this subpart.
(vi) A U.S. intermediate holding company must comply with risk-committee and risk-management requirements beginning on the date that it is required to be established or designated under this subpart or, if the
U.S. intermediate holding company is subject to risk-committee and risk-management requirements on the date that the foreign banking organization becomes subject to § 252.153(a)(1)(ii), on the date that the foreign banking organization becomes subject to this subpart.
(4)
Liquidity requirements.
(i) A U.S. intermediate holding company must comply with the liquidity risk-management requirements in § 252.156 and conduct liquidity stress tests and hold a liquidity buffer pursuant to § 252.157.
(ii) A U.S. intermediate holding company must comply with liquidity risk-management, liquidity stress test, and liquidity buffer requirements beginning on the date that it is required to be established or designated under this subpart.
(5)
Stress test requirements.
(i)(A) A U.S. intermediate holding company with total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more must comply with the requirements of subpart E of this part in the same manner as a bank holding company;
(B) A U.S. intermediate holding company must comply with the requirements of subpart E beginning the later of:
(
1
) The stress test cycle of the calendar year after the calendar year in which the U.S. intermediate holding company becomes subject to regulatory capital requirements; or
(
2
) The transition period provided under subpart E.
(ii)(A) A Category II U.S. intermediate holding company or a Category III U.S. intermediate holding company must comply with the requirements of subpart F of this part in the same manner as a bank holding company;
(B) A Category II U.S. intermediate holding company or Category III U.S. intermediate holding company must comply with the requirements of subpart F beginning the later of:
(
1
) The stress test cycle of the calendar year after the calendar year in which the U.S. intermediate holding company becomes subject to regulatory capital requirements; or
(
2
) The transition period provided under subpart F.
[Reg. YY, 79 FR 17326, Mar. 27, 2014, as amended at 79 FR 64055, Oct. 27, 2014; 80 FR 70673, Nov. 16, 2015; 82 FR 8310, Jan. 24, 2017; 84 FR 59114, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.154
Risk-based and leverage capital requirements for foreign banking organizations with combined U.S. assets of $100 billion or more.
(a)
General requirements.
(1) A foreign banking organization subject to this subpart more must certify to the Board that it meets capital adequacy standards on a consolidated basis that are established by its home-country supervisor and that are consistent with the regulatory capital framework published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, as amended from time to time (Basel Capital Framework).
(2) In the event that a home-country supervisor has not established capital adequacy standards that are consistent with the Basel Capital Framework, the foreign banking organization must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Board that it would meet or exceed capital adequacy standards at the consolidated level that are consistent with the Basel Capital Framework were it subject to such standards.
(b)
Reporting.
A foreign banking organization subject to this subpart must provide to the Board reports relating to its compliance with the capital adequacy measures described in paragraph (a) of this section concurrently with filing the FR Y-7Q.
(c)
Noncompliance with the Basel Capital Framework.
If a foreign banking organization does not satisfy the requirements of this section, the Board may impose requirements, conditions, or restrictions relating to the activities or business operations of the U.S. operations of the foreign banking organization. The Board will coordinate with any relevant State or Federal regulator in the implementation of such requirements, conditions, or restrictions. If the Board determines to impose one or more requirements, conditions, or restrictions under this paragraph, the Board will notify the organization before it applies any requirement, condition, or restriction, and describe the
basis for imposing such requirement, condition, or restriction. Within 14 calendar days of receipt of a notification under this paragraph, the organization may request in writing that the Board reconsider the requirement, condition, or restriction. The Board will respond in writing to the organization's request for reconsideration prior to applying the requirement, condition, or restriction.
[Reg. YY, 79 FR 17326, Mar. 27, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 59116, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.155
Risk-management and risk-committee requirements for foreign banking organizations with combined U.S. assets of $100 billion or more.
(a)
U.S. risk committee
—(1)
General.
A foreign banking organization subject to this subpart must maintain a U.S. risk committee that approves and periodically reviews the risk-management policies of the combined U.S. operations of the foreign banking organization and oversees the risk-management framework of such combined U.S. operations. The U.S. risk committee's responsibilities include the liquidity risk-management responsibilities set forth in § 252.156(a).
(2)
Risk-management framework.
The foreign banking organization's risk-management framework for its combined U.S. operations must be commensurate with the structure, risk profile, complexity, activities, and size of its combined U.S. operations and consistent with its enterprise-wide risk management policies. The framework must include:
(i) Policies and procedures establishing risk-management governance, risk-management procedures, and risk-control infrastructure for the combined U.S. operations of the foreign banking organization; and
(ii) Processes and systems for implementing and monitoring compliance with such policies and procedures, including:
(A) Processes and systems for identifying and reporting risks and risk-management deficiencies, including regarding emerging risks, on a combined U.S. operations basis and ensuring effective and timely implementation of actions to address emerging risks and risk-management deficiencies;
(B) Processes and systems for establishing managerial and employee responsibility for risk management of the combined U.S. operations;
(C) Processes and systems for ensuring the independence of the risk-management function of the combined U.S. operations; and
(D) Processes and systems to integrate risk management and associated controls with management goals and the compensation structure of the combined U.S. operations.
(3)
Placement of the U.S. risk committee.
(i) A foreign banking organization that conducts its operations in the United States solely through a U.S. intermediate holding company must maintain its U.S. risk committee as a committee of the board of directors of its U.S. intermediate holding company (or equivalent thereof).
(ii) A foreign banking organization that conducts its operations through U.S. branches or U.S. agencies (in addition to through its U.S. intermediate holding company, if any) may maintain its U.S. risk committee either:
(A) As a committee of the global board of directors (or equivalent thereof), on a standalone basis or as a joint committee with its enterprise-wide risk committee (or equivalent thereof); or
(B) As a committee of the board of directors of its U.S. intermediate holding company (or equivalent thereof), on a standalone basis or as a joint committee with the risk committee of its U.S. intermediate holding company required pursuant to § 252.153(e)(3).
(4)
Corporate governance requirements.
The U.S. risk committee must meet at least quarterly and otherwise as needed, and must fully document and maintain records of its proceedings, including risk-management decisions.
(5)
Minimum member requirements.
The U.S. risk committee must:
(i) Include at least one member having experience in identifying, assessing, and managing risk exposures of large, complex financial firms; and
(ii) Have at least one member who:
(A) Is not an officer or employee of the foreign banking organization or its affiliates and has not been an officer or
employee of the foreign banking organization or its affiliates during the previous three years; and
(B) Is not a member of the immediate family, as defined in § 225.41(b)(3) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.41(b)(3)), of a person who is, or has been within the last three years, an executive officer, as defined in § 215.2(e)(1) of the Board's Regulation O (12 CFR 215.2(e)(1)) of the foreign banking organization or its affiliates.
(b)
U.S. chief risk officer
—(1)
General.
A foreign banking organization subject to this subpart or its U.S. intermediate holding company, if any, must appoint a U.S. chief risk officer with experience in identifying, assessing, and managing risk exposures of large, complex financial firms.
(2)
Responsibilities.
(i) The U.S. chief risk officer is responsible for overseeing:
(A) The measurement, aggregation, and monitoring of risks undertaken by the combined U.S. operations;
(B) The implementation of and ongoing compliance with the policies and procedures for the foreign banking organization's combined U.S. operations set forth in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section and the development and implementation of processes and systems set forth in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section; and
(C) The management of risks and risk controls within the parameters of the risk-control framework for the combined U.S. operations, and the monitoring and testing of such risk controls.
(ii) The U.S. chief risk officer is responsible for reporting risks and risk-management deficiencies of the combined U.S. operations, and resolving such risk-management deficiencies in a timely manner.
(3)
Corporate governance and reporting.
The U.S. chief risk officer must:
(i) Receive compensation and other incentives consistent with providing an objective assessment of the risks taken by the combined U.S. operations of the foreign banking organization;
(ii) Be employed by and located in the U.S. branch, U.S. agency, U.S. intermediate holding company, if any, or another U.S. subsidiary;
(iii) Report directly to the U.S. risk committee and the global chief risk officer or equivalent management official (or officials) of the foreign banking organization who is responsible for overseeing, on an enterprise-wide basis, the implementation of and compliance with policies and procedures relating to risk-management governance, practices, and risk controls of the foreign banking organization, unless the Board approves an alternative reporting structure based on circumstances specific to the foreign banking organization;
(iv) Regularly provide information to the U.S. risk committee, global chief risk officer, and the Board regarding the nature of and changes to material risks undertaken by the foreign banking organization's combined U.S. operations, including risk-management deficiencies and emerging risks, and how such risks relate to the global operations of the foreign banking organization; and
(v) Meet regularly and as needed with the Board to assess compliance with the requirements of this section.
(4)
Liquidity risk-management requirements.
The U.S. chief risk officer must undertake the liquidity risk-management responsibilities set forth in § 252.156(b).
(c)
Responsibilities of the foreign banking organization.
The foreign banking organization must take appropriate measures to ensure that its combined U.S. operations implement the risk management policies overseen by the U.S. risk committee described in paragraph (a) of this section, and its combined U.S. operations provide sufficient information to the U.S. risk committee to enable the U.S. risk committee to carry out the responsibilities of this subpart.
(d)
Noncompliance with this section.
If a foreign banking organization does not satisfy the requirements of this section, the Board may impose requirements, conditions, or restrictions relating to the activities or business operations of the combined U.S. operations of the foreign banking organization. The Board will coordinate with
any relevant State or Federal regulator in the implementation of such requirements, conditions, or restrictions.
[Reg. YY, 79 FR 17326, Mar. 27, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 59116, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.156
Liquidity risk-management requirements for foreign banking organizations with combined U.S. assets of $100 billion or more.
(a)
Responsibilities of the U.S. risk committee.
(1) The U.S. risk committee established by a foreign banking organization pursuant to § 252.155(a) (or a designated subcommittee of such committee composed of members of the board of directors (or equivalent thereof)) of the U.S. intermediate holding company or the foreign banking organization, as appropriate must:
(i) Approve at least annually the acceptable level of liquidity risk that the foreign banking organization may assume in connection with the operating strategies for its combined U.S. operations (liquidity risk tolerance), with concurrence from the foreign banking organization's board of directors or its enterprise-wide risk committee, taking into account the capital structure, risk profile, complexity, activities, size of the foreign banking organization and its combined U.S. operations and the enterprise-wide liquidity risk tolerance of the foreign banking organization; and
(ii) Receive and review information provided by the senior management of the combined U.S. operations at least semi-annually to determine whether the combined U.S. operations are operating in accordance with the established liquidity risk tolerance and to ensure that the liquidity risk tolerance for the combined U.S. operations is consistent with the enterprise-wide liquidity risk tolerance established for the foreign banking organization.
(iii) Approve the contingency funding plan for the combined U.S. operations described in paragraph (e) of this section at least annually and whenever the foreign banking organization revises its contingency funding plan, and approve any material revisions to the contingency funding plan for the combined U.S. operations prior to the implementation of such revisions.
(b)
Responsibilities of the U.S. chief risk officer
—(1)
Liquidity risk.
The U.S. chief risk officer of a foreign banking organization subject to this subpart must review the strategies and policies and procedures established by senior management of the U.S. operations for managing the risk that the financial condition or safety and soundness of the foreign banking organization's combined U.S. operations would be adversely affected by its inability or the market's perception of its inability to meet its cash and collateral obligations (liquidity risk).
(2)
Liquidity risk tolerance.
The U.S. chief risk officer of a foreign banking organization subject to this subpart must review information provided by the senior management of the U.S. operations to determine whether the combined U.S. operations are operating in accordance with the established liquidity risk tolerance. The U.S. chief risk officer must regularly, and, at least semi-annually, report to the foreign banking organization's U.S. risk committee and enterprise-wide risk committee, or the equivalent thereof (if any) (or a designated subcommittee of such committee composed of members of the relevant board of directors (or equivalent thereof)) on the liquidity risk profile of the foreign banking organization's combined U.S. operations and whether it is operating in accordance with the established liquidity risk tolerance for the U.S. operations, and must establish procedures governing the content of such reports.
(3)
Business lines or products.
(i) The U.S. chief risk officer of a foreign banking organization subject to this subpart must approve new products and business lines and evaluate the liquidity costs, benefits, and risks of each new business line and each new product offered, managed or sold through the foreign banking organization's combined U.S. operations that could have a significant effect on the liquidity risk profile of the U.S. operations of the foreign banking organization. The approval is required before the foreign banking organization implements the business line or offers the product through its combined U.S. operations. In determining whether to approve the new business line or product,
the U.S. chief risk officer must consider whether the liquidity risk of the new business line or product (under both current and stressed conditions) is within the foreign banking organization's established liquidity risk tolerance for its combined U.S. operations.
(ii) The U.S. risk committee must review at least annually significant business lines and products offered, managed or sold through the combined U.S. operations to determine whether each business line or product creates or has created any unanticipated liquidity risk, and to determine whether the liquidity risk of each strategy or product is within the foreign banking organization's established liquidity risk tolerance for its combined U.S. operations.
(4)
Cash-flow projections.
The U.S. chief risk officer of a foreign banking organization subject to this subpart must review the cash-flow projections produced under paragraph (d) of this section at least quarterly (or more often, if changes in market conditions or the liquidity position, risk profile, or financial condition of the foreign banking organization or the U.S. operations warrant) to ensure that the liquidity risk of the foreign banking organization's combined U.S. operations is within the established liquidity risk tolerance.
(5)
Liquidity risk limits.
The U.S. chief risk officer of a foreign banking organization subject to this subpart must establish liquidity risk limits as set forth in paragraph (f) of this section and review the foreign banking organization's compliance with those limits at least quarterly (or more often, if changes in market conditions or the liquidity position, risk profile, or financial condition of the U.S. operations of the foreign banking organization warrant).
(6)
Liquidity stress testing.
The U.S. chief risk officer of a foreign banking organization subject to this subpart must:
(i) Approve the liquidity stress testing practices, methodologies, and assumptions required in § 252.157(a) at least quarterly, and whenever the foreign banking organization materially revises its liquidity stress testing practices, methodologies or assumptions;
(ii) Review the liquidity stress testing results produced under § 252.157(a) of this subpart at least quarterly; and
(iii) Approve the size and composition of the liquidity buffer established under § 252.157(c) of this subpart at least quarterly.
(c)
Independent review function.
(1) A foreign banking organization subject to this subpart must establish and maintain a review function, which is independent of the management functions that execute funding for its combined U.S. operations, to evaluate the liquidity risk management for its combined U.S. operations.
(2) The independent review function must:
(i) Regularly, but no less frequently than annually, review and evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of the foreign banking organization's liquidity risk management processes within the combined U.S. operations, including its liquidity stress test processes and assumptions;
(ii) Assess whether the foreign banking organization's liquidity risk-management function of its combined U.S. operations complies with applicable laws and regulations, and sound business practices; and
(iii) Report material liquidity risk management issues to the U.S. risk committee and the enterprise-wide risk committee in writing for corrective action, to the extent permitted by applicable law.
(d)
Cash-flow projections.
(1) A foreign banking organization subject to this subpart must produce comprehensive cash-flow projections for its combined U.S. operations that project cash flows arising from assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet exposures over, at a minimum, short- and long-term time horizons. The foreign banking organization must update short-term cash-flow projections daily and must update longer-term cash-flow projections at least monthly.
(2) The foreign banking organization must establish a methodology for making cash-flow projections for its combined U.S. operations that results in projections which:
(i) Include cash flows arising from contractual maturities, intercompany
transactions, new business, funding renewals, customer options, and other potential events that may impact liquidity;
(ii) Include reasonable assumptions regarding the future behavior of assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet exposures;
(iii) Identify and quantify discrete and cumulative cash-flow mismatches over these time periods; and
(iv) Include sufficient detail to reflect the capital structure, risk profile, complexity, currency exposure, activities, and size of the foreign banking organization and its combined U.S. operations, and include analyses by business line, currency, or legal entity as appropriate.
(e)
Contingency funding plan.
(1) A foreign banking organization subject to this subpart must establish and maintain a contingency funding plan for its combined U.S. operations that sets out the foreign banking organization's strategies for addressing liquidity needs during liquidity stress events. The contingency funding plan must be commensurate with the capital structure, risk profile, complexity, activities, size, and the established liquidity risk tolerance for the combined U.S. operations. The foreign banking organization must update the contingency funding plan for its combined U.S. operations at least annually, and when changes to market and idiosyncratic conditions warrant.
(2)
Components of the contingency funding plan
—(i)
Quantitative assessment.
The contingency funding plan for the combined U.S. operations must:
(A) Identify liquidity stress events that could have a significant impact on the liquidity of the foreign banking organization or its combined U.S. operations;
(B) Assess the level and nature of the impact on the liquidity of the foreign banking organization and its combined U.S. operations that may occur during identified liquidity stress events;
(C) Identify the circumstances in which the foreign banking organization would implement its action plan described in paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, which circumstances must include failure to meet any minimum liquidity requirement imposed by the Board on the foreign banking organization's combined U.S. operations;
(D) Assess available funding sources and needs during the identified liquidity stress events;
(E) Identify alternative funding sources that may be used during the identified liquidity stress events; and
(F) Incorporate information generated by the liquidity stress testing required under § 252.157(a) of this subpart.
(ii)
Liquidity event management process.
The contingency funding plan for the combined U.S. operations must include an event management process that sets out the foreign banking organization's procedures for managing liquidity during identified liquidity stress events for the combined U.S. operations. The liquidity event management process must:
(A) Include an action plan that clearly describes the strategies that the foreign banking organization will use to respond to liquidity shortfalls in its combined U.S. operations for identified liquidity stress events, including the methods that the organization or the combined U.S. operations will use to access alternative funding sources;
(B) Identify a liquidity stress event management team that would execute the action plan in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section for the combined U.S. operations;
(C) Specify the process, responsibilities, and triggers for invoking the contingency funding plan, describe the decision-making process during the identified liquidity stress events, and describe the process for executing contingency measures identified in the action plan; and
(D) Provide a mechanism that ensures effective reporting and communication within the combined U.S. operations of the foreign banking organization and with outside parties, including the Board and other relevant supervisors, counterparties, and other stakeholders.
(iii)
Monitoring.
The contingency funding plan for the combined U.S. operations must include procedures for monitoring emerging liquidity stress events. The procedures must identify
early warning indicators that are tailored to the capital structure, risk profile, complexity, activities, and size of the foreign banking organization and its combined U.S. operations.
(iv)
Testing.
A foreign banking organization must periodically test:
(A) The components of the contingency funding plan to assess the plan's reliability during liquidity stress events;
(B) The operational elements of the contingency funding plan, including operational simulations to test communications, coordination, and decision-making by relevant management; and
(C) The methods it will use to access alternative funding sources for its combined U.S. operations to determine whether these funding sources will be readily available when needed.
(f)
Liquidity risk limits
—(1)
General.
A foreign banking organization must monitor sources of liquidity risk and establish limits on liquidity risk that are consistent with the organization's established liquidity risk tolerance and that reflect the organization's capital structure, risk profile, complexity, activities, and size.
(2)
Liquidity risk limits established by a Category II foreign banking organization or Category III foreign banking organization.
If the foreign banking organization is not a Category IV foreign banking organization, liquidity risk limits established under paragraph (f)(1) of this section must include limits on:
(i) Concentrations in sources of funding by instrument type, single counterparty, counterparty type, secured and unsecured funding, and as applicable, other forms of liquidity risk;
(ii) The amount of liabilities that mature within various time horizons; and
(iii) Off-balance sheet exposures and other exposures that could create funding needs during liquidity stress events.
(g)
Collateral, legal entity, and intraday liquidity risk monitoring.
A foreign banking organization subject to this subpart or more must establish and maintain procedures for monitoring liquidity risk as set forth in this paragraph (g).
(1)
Collateral.
The foreign banking organization must establish and maintain policies and procedures to monitor assets that have been, or are available to be, pledged as collateral in connection with transactions to which entities in its U.S. operations are counterparties. These policies and procedures must provide that the foreign banking organization:
(i) Calculates all of the collateral positions for its combined U.S. operations according to the frequency specified in paragraph (g)(1)(i)(A) or (B) of this section or as directed by the Board, specifying the value of pledged assets relative to the amount of security required under the relevant contracts and the value of unencumbered assets available to be pledged:
(A) If the foreign banking organization is not a Category IV foreign banking organization, on at least a weekly basis; or
(B) If the foreign banking organization is a Category IV foreign banking organization, on at least a monthly basis;
(ii) Monitors the levels of unencumbered assets available to be pledged by legal entity, jurisdiction, and currency exposure;
(iii) Monitors shifts in the foreign banking organization's funding patterns, including shifts between intraday, overnight, and term pledging of collateral; and
(iv) Tracks operational and timing requirements associated with accessing collateral at its physical location (for example, the custodian or securities settlement system that holds the collateral).
(2)
Legal entities, currencies and business lines.
The foreign banking organization must establish and maintain procedures for monitoring and controlling liquidity risk exposures and funding needs of its combined U.S. operations, within and across significant legal entities, currencies, and business lines and taking into account legal and regulatory restrictions on the transfer of liquidity between legal entities.
(3)
Intraday exposure.
The foreign banking organization must establish and maintain procedures for monitoring intraday liquidity risk exposure for its combined U.S. operations that
are consistent with the capital structure, risk profile, complexity, activities, and size of the foreign banking organization and its combined U.S. operations. If the foreign banking organization is not a Category IV banking organization these procedures must address how the management of the combined U.S. operations will:
(i) Monitor and measure expected gross daily inflows and outflows;
(ii) Manage and transfer collateral to obtain intraday credit;
(iii) Identify and prioritize time-specific obligations so that the foreign banking organizations can meet these obligations as expected and settle less critical obligations as soon as possible;
(iv) Manage the issuance of credit to customers where necessary; and
(v) Consider the amounts of collateral and liquidity needed to meet payment systems obligations when assessing the overall liquidity needs of the combined U.S. operations.
[Reg. YY, 79 FR 17326, Mar. 27, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 59116, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.157
Liquidity stress testing and buffer requirements for foreign banking organizations with combined U.S. assets of $100 billion or more.
(a)
Liquidity stress testing requirement
—(1)
General.
(i) A foreign banking organization subject to this subpart must conduct stress tests to separately assess the potential impact of liquidity stress scenarios on the cash flows, liquidity position, profitability, and solvency of:
(A) Its combined U.S. operations as a whole;
(B) Its U.S. branches and agencies on an aggregate basis; and
(C) Its U.S. intermediate holding company, if any.
(ii) Each liquidity stress test required under this paragraph (a)(1) must use the stress scenarios described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section and take into account the current liquidity condition, risks, exposures, strategies, and activities of the combined U.S. operations.
(iii) The liquidity stress tests required under this paragraph (a)(1) must take into consideration the balance sheet exposures, off-balance sheet exposures, size, risk profile, complexity, business lines, organizational structure and other characteristics of the foreign banking organization and its combined U.S. operations that affect the liquidity risk profile of the combined U.S. operations.
(iv) In conducting a liquidity stress test using the scenarios described in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (iii) of this section, the foreign banking organization must address the potential direct adverse impact of associated market disruptions on the foreign banking organization's combined U.S. operations and the related indirect effect such impact could have on the combined U.S. operations of the foreign banking organization and incorporate the potential actions of other market participants experiencing liquidity stresses under the market disruptions that would adversely affect the foreign banking organization or its combined U.S. operations.
(2)
Frequency.
The foreign banking organization must perform the liquidity stress tests required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section according to the frequency specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section or as directed by the Board:
(i) If the foreign banking organization is not a Category IV foreign banking organization, at least monthly; or
(ii) If the foreign banking organization is a Category IV foreign banking organization, at least quarterly.
(3)
Stress scenarios.
(i) Each liquidity stress test conducted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section must include, at a minimum:
(A) A scenario reflecting adverse market conditions;
(B) A scenario reflecting an idiosyncratic stress event for the U.S. branches/agencies and the U.S. intermediate holding company, if any; and
(C) a scenario reflecting combined market and idiosyncratic stresses.
(ii) The foreign banking organization must incorporate additional liquidity stress scenarios into its liquidity stress test as appropriate based on the financial condition, size, complexity, risk profile, scope of operations, or activities of the combined U.S. operations, the U.S. branches and agencies, and the U.S. intermediate holding company, as
applicable. The Board may require the foreign banking organization to vary the underlying assumptions and stress scenarios.
(4)
Planning horizon.
Each stress test conducted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section must include an overnight planning horizon, a 30-day planning horizon, a 90-day planning horizon, a 1-year planning horizon, and any other planning horizons that are relevant to the liquidity risk profile of the combined U.S. operations, the U.S. branches and agencies, and the U.S. intermediate holding company, if any. For purposes of this section, a “planning horizon” is the period over which the relevant stressed projections extend. The foreign banking organization must use the results of the stress test over the 30-day planning horizon to calculate the size of the liquidity buffers under paragraph (c) of this section.
(5)
Requirements for assets used as cash-flow sources in a stress test.
(i) To the extent an asset is used as a cash flow source to offset projected funding needs during the planning horizon in a liquidity stress test, the fair market value of the asset must be discounted to reflect any credit risk and market volatility of the asset.
(ii) Assets used as cash-flow sources during the planning horizon must be diversified by collateral, counterparty, borrowing capacity, or other factors associated with the liquidity risk of the assets.
(iii) A line of credit does not qualify as a cash flow source for purposes of a stress test with a planning horizon of 30 days or less. A line of credit may qualify as a cash flow source for purposes of a stress test with a planning horizon that exceeds 30 days.
(6)
Tailoring.
Stress testing must be tailored to, and provide sufficient detail to reflect, the capital structure, risk profile, complexity, activities, and size of the combined U.S. operations of the foreign banking organization and, as appropriate, the foreign banking organization as a whole.
(7)
Governance
—(i)
Stress test function.
A foreign banking organization subject to this subpart, within its combined U.S. operations and its enterprise-wide risk management, must establish and maintain policies and procedures governing its liquidity stress testing practices, methodologies, and assumptions that provide for the incorporation of the results of liquidity stress tests in future stress testing and for the enhancement of stress testing practices over time.
(ii)
Controls and oversight.
The foreign banking organization must establish and maintain a system of controls and oversight that is designed to ensure that its liquidity stress testing processes are effective in meeting the requirements of this section. The controls and oversight must ensure that each liquidity stress test appropriately incorporates conservative assumptions with respect to the stress scenario in paragraph (a)(3) of this section and other elements of the stress-test process, taking into consideration the capital structure, risk profile, complexity, activities, size, and other relevant factors of the combined U.S. operations. These assumptions must be approved by U.S. chief risk officer and subject to independent review consistent with the standards set out in § 252.156(c).
(iii)
Management information systems.
The foreign banking organization must maintain management information systems and data processes sufficient to enable it to effectively and reliably collect, sort, and aggregate data and other information related to the liquidity stress testing of its combined U.S. operations.
(8)
Notice and response.
If the Board determines that a foreign banking organization must conduct liquidity stress tests according to a frequency other than the frequency provided in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, the Board will notify the foreign banking organization before the change in frequency takes effect, and describe the basis for its determination. Within 14 calendar days of receipt of a notification under this paragraph, the foreign banking organization may request in writing that the Board reconsider the requirement. The Board will respond in writing to the organization's request for reconsideration prior to requiring the foreign banking organization to conduct liquidity stress tests according to a frequency other than the frequency provided in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(b)
Reporting of liquidity stress tests required by home-country regulators.
A foreign banking organization subject to this subpart must make available to the Board, in a timely manner, the results of any liquidity internal stress tests and establishment of liquidity buffers required by regulators in its home jurisdiction. The report required under this paragraph must include the results of its liquidity stress test and liquidity buffer, if required by the laws or regulations implemented in the home jurisdiction, or expected under supervisory guidance.
(c)
Liquidity buffer requirement
—(1)
General.
A foreign banking organization subject to this subpart must maintain a liquidity buffer for its U.S. intermediate holding company, if any, calculated in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section, and a separate liquidity buffer for its U.S. branches and agencies, if any, calculated in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(2)
Calculation of U.S. intermediate holding company buffer requirement.
(i) The liquidity buffer for the U.S. intermediate holding company must be sufficient to meet the projected net stressed cash-flow need over the 30-day planning horizon of a liquidity stress test conducted in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section under each scenario set forth in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(ii)
Net stressed cash-flow need.
The net stressed cash-flow need for the U.S. intermediate holding company is equal to the sum of its net external stressed cash-flow need (calculated pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section) and its net internal stressed cash-flow need (calculated pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section) over the 30-day planning horizon.
(iii)
Net external stressed cash-flow need calculation.
The net external stressed cash-flow need for a U.S. intermediate holding company equals the difference between:
(A) The projected amount of cash-flow needs that results from transactions between the U.S. intermediate holding company and entities that are not its affiliates; and
(B) The projected amount of cash-flow sources that results from transactions between the U.S. intermediate holding company and entities that are not its affiliates.
(iv)
Net internal stressed cash-flow need calculation
—(A)
General.
The net internal stressed cash-flow need for the U.S. intermediate holding company equals the greater of:
(
1
) The greatest daily cumulative net intragroup cash-flow need over the 30-day planning horizon as calculated under paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(B) of this section; and
(
2
) Zero.
(B)
Daily cumulative net intragroup cash-flow need calculation.
The daily cumulative net intragroup cash-flow need for the U.S. intermediate holding company for purposes of paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A) of this section is calculated as follows:
(
1
)
Daily cumulative net intragroup cash-flow need.
For any given day in the stress-test horizon, the daily cumulative net intragroup cash-flow need is a daily cumulative net intragroup cash flow that is greater than zero.
(
2
)
Daily cumulative net intragroup cash flow.
For any given day of the planning horizon, the daily cumulative net intragroup cash flow equals the sum of the net intragroup cash flow calculated for that day and the net intragroup cash flow calculated for each previous day of the stress-test horizon, as calculated in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(C) of this section.
(C)
Net intragroup cash flow.
For any given day of the stress-test horizon, the net intragroup cash flow equals the difference between:
(
1
) The amount of cash-flow needs resulting from transactions between the U.S. intermediate holding company and its affiliates (including any U.S. branch or U.S. agency) for that day of the planning horizon; and
(
2
) The amount of cash-flow sources resulting from transactions between the U.S. intermediate holding company and its affiliates (including any U.S. branch or U.S. agency) for that day of the planning horizon.
(D)
Amounts secured by highly liquid assets.
For the purposes of calculating net intragroup cash flow under this paragraph, the amounts of intragroup cash-flow needs and intragroup cash-flow sources that are secured by highly
liquid assets (as defined in paragraph (c)(7) of this section) must be excluded from the calculation.
(3)
Calculation of U.S. branch and agency liquidity buffer requirement.
(i) The liquidity buffer for the foreign banking organization's U.S. branches and agencies must be sufficient to meet the projected net stressed cash-flow need of the U.S. branches and agencies over the first 14 days of a stress test with a 30-day planning horizon, conducted in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section under the scenarios described in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(ii)
Net stressed cash-flow need.
The net stressed cash-flow need of the U.S. branches and agencies of a foreign banking organization is equal to the sum of its net external stressed cash-flow need (calculated pursuant to paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section) and net internal stressed cash-flow need (calculated pursuant to paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section) over the first 14 days of the 30-day planning horizon.
(iii)
Net external stressed cash-flow need calculation.
(A) The net external stressed cash-flow need of the U.S. branches and agencies equals the difference between:
(
1
) The projected amount of cash-flow needs that results from transactions between the U.S. branches and agencies and entities other than the foreign bank's non-U.S. offices and its U.S. and non-U.S. affiliates; and
(
2
) The projected amount of cash-flow sources that results from transactions between the U.S. branches and agencies and entities other than the foreign bank's non-U.S. offices and its U.S. and non-U.S. affiliates.
(iv)
Net internal stressed cash-flow need calculation
—(A)
General.
The net internal stressed cash-flow need of the U.S. branches and agencies of the foreign banking organization equals the greater of:
(
1
) The greatest daily cumulative net intragroup cash-flow need over the first 14 days of the 30-day planning horizon, as calculated under paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(B) of this section; and
(
2
) Zero.
(B)
Daily cumulative net intragroup cash-flow need calculation.
The daily cumulative net intragroup cash-flow need of the U.S. branches and agencies of a foreign banking organization for purposes of paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section is calculated as follows:
(
1
)
Daily cumulative net intragroup cash-flow need.
For any given day of the stress-test horizon, the daily cumulative net intragroup cash-flow need of the U.S. branches and agencies means a daily cumulative net intragroup cash flow that is greater than zero.
(
2
)
Daily cumulative net intragroup cash flow.
For any given day of the planning horizon, the daily cumulative net intragroup cash flow of the U.S. branches and agencies equals the sum of the net intragroup cash flow calculated for that day and the net intragroup cash flow calculated for each previous day of the planning horizon, each as calculated in accordance with this paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(C) of this section.
(C)
Net intragroup cash flow.
For any given day of the planning horizon, the net intragroup cash flow must equal the difference between:
(
1
) The amount of projected cash-flow needs resulting from transactions between a U.S. branch or U.S. agency and the foreign bank's non-U.S. offices and its affiliates; and
(
2
) The amount of projected cash-flow sources resulting from transactions between a U.S. branch or U.S. agency and the foreign bank's non-U.S. offices and its affiliates.
(D)
Amounts secured by highly liquid assets.
For the purposes of calculating net intragroup cash flow of the U.S. branches and agencies under this paragraph, the amounts of intragroup cash-flow needs and intragroup cash-flow sources that are secured by highly liquid assets (as defined in paragraph (c)(7) of this section) must be excluded from the calculation.
(4)
Location of liquidity buffer
—(i)
U.S. intermediate holding companies.
A U.S. intermediate holding company must maintain in accounts in the United States the highly liquid assets comprising the liquidity buffer required under this section. To the extent that the assets consist of cash, the cash may not be held in an account located at a U.S. branch or U.S. agency of the affiliated foreign banking organization or other affiliate that is not controlled
by the U.S. intermediate holding company.
(ii)
U.S. branches and agencies.
The U.S. branches and agencies of a foreign banking organization must maintain in accounts in the United States the highly liquid assets comprising the liquidity buffer required under this section. To the extent that the assets consist of cash, the cash may not be held in an account located at the foreign banking organization's U.S. intermediate holding company or other affiliate.
(7)
Asset requirements.
The liquidity buffer required in this section for the U.S. intermediate holding company or the U.S. branches and agencies must consist of highly liquid assets that are unencumbered, as set forth below:
(i)
Highly liquid assets.
The asset must be a highly liquid asset. For these purposes, a highly liquid asset includes:
(A) Cash;
(B) Assets that meet the criteria for high quality liquid assets as defined in 12 CFR 249.20; or
(C) Any other asset that the foreign banking organization demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Board:
(
1
) Has low credit risk and low market risk;
(
2
) Is traded in an active secondary two-way market that has committed market makers and independent bona fide offers to buy and sell so that a price reasonably related to the last sales price or current bona fide competitive bid and offer quotations can be determined within one day and settled at that price within a reasonable time period conforming with trade custom; and
(
3
) Is a type of asset that investors historically have purchased in periods of financial market distress during which market liquidity has been impaired.
(ii)
Unencumbered.
The asset must be unencumbered. For these purposes, an asset is unencumbered if it:
(A) Is free of legal, regulatory, contractual or other restrictions on the ability of such company promptly to liquidate, sell or transfer the asset; and
(B) Is either:
(
1
) Not pledged or used to secure or provide credit enhancement to any transaction; or
(
2
) Pledged to a central bank or a U.S. government-sponsored enterprise, to the extent potential credit secured by the asset is not currently extended by such central bank or U.S. government-sponsored enterprise or any of its consolidated subsidiaries.
(iii)
Calculating the amount of a highly liquid asset.
In calculating the amount of a highly liquid asset included in the liquidity buffer, the foreign banking organization must discount the fair market value of the asset to reflect any credit risk and market price volatility of the asset.
(iv)
Operational requirements.
With respect to the liquidity buffer, the foreign banking organization must:
(A) Establish and implement policies and procedures that require highly liquid assets comprising the liquidity buffer to be under the control of the management function in the foreign banking organization that is charged with managing liquidity risk of its combined U.S. operations; and
(B) Demonstrate the capability to monetize a highly liquid asset under each scenario required under § 252.157(a)(3).
(v)
Diversification.
The liquidity buffer must not contain significant concentrations of highly liquid assets by issuer, business sector, region, or other factor related to the foreign banking organization's risk, except with respect to cash and securities issued or guaranteed by the United States, a U.S. government agency, or a U.S. government sponsored enterprise.
[Reg. YY, 79 FR 17326, Mar. 27, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 59118, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.158
Capital stress testing requirements for foreign banking organizations with combined U.S. assets of $100 billion or more.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Eligible asset
means any asset of the U.S. branch or U.S. agency held in the United States that is recorded on the general ledger of a U.S. branch or U.S. agency of the foreign banking organization (reduced by the amount of any specifically allocated reserves held in the United States and recorded on the general ledger of the U.S. branch or
U.S. agency in connection with such assets), subject to the following exclusions, and, for purposes of this definition, as modified by the rules of valuation set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.
(i) The following assets do not qualify as eligible assets:
(A) Equity securities;
(B) Any assets classified as loss at the preceding examination by a regulatory agency, outside accountant, or the bank's internal loan review staff;
(C) Accrued income on assets classified loss, doubtful, substandard or value impaired, at the preceding examination by a regulatory agency, outside accountant, or the bank's internal loan review staff;
(D) Any amounts due from the home office, other offices and affiliates, including income accrued but uncollected on such amounts;
(E) The balance from time to time of any other asset or asset category disallowed at the preceding examination or by direction of the Board for any other reason until the underlying reasons for the disallowance have been removed;
(F) Prepaid expenses and unamortized costs, furniture and fixtures and leasehold improvements; and
(G) Any other asset that the Board determines should not qualify as an eligible asset.
(ii) The following rules of valuation apply:
(A) A marketable debt security is valued at its principal amount or market value, whichever is lower;
(B) An asset classified doubtful or substandard at the preceding examination by a regulatory agency, outside accountant, or the bank's internal loan review staff, is valued at 50 percent and 80 percent, respectively;
(C) With respect to an asset classified value impaired, the amount representing the allocated transfer risk reserve that would be required for such exposure at a domestically chartered bank is valued at 0 and the residual exposure is valued at 80 percent; and
(D) Real estate located in the United States and carried on the accounting records as an asset are valued at net book value or appraised value, whichever is less.
(2)
Liabilities of all U.S. branches and agencies of a foreign banking organization
means all liabilities of all U.S. branches and agencies of the foreign banking organization, including acceptances and any other liabilities (including contingent liabilities), but excluding:
(i) Amounts due to and other liabilities to other offices, agencies, branches and affiliates of such foreign banking organization, including its head office, including unremitted profits; and
(ii) Reserves for possible loan losses and other contingencies.
(3)
Pre-provision net revenue
means revenue less expenses before adjusting for total loan loss provisions.
(4)
Stress test cycle
has the same meaning as in subpart F of this part.
(5)
Total loan loss provisions
means the amount needed to make reserves adequate to absorb estimated credit losses, based upon management's evaluation of the loans and leases that the company has the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable future or until maturity or payoff, as determined under applicable accounting standards.
(b)
In general.
(1) A foreign banking organization subject to this subpart and that has a U.S. branch or U.S. agency must:
(i) Be subject on a consolidated basis to a capital stress testing regime by its home-country supervisor that meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section;
(ii) Conduct such stress tests or be subject to a supervisory stress test and meet any minimum standards set by its home-country supervisor with respect to the stress tests; and
(iii) Provide to the Board the information required under paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) The capital stress testing regime of a foreign banking organization's home-country supervisor must include:
(i) A supervisory capital stress test conducted by the foreign banking organization's home-country supervisor or an evaluation and review by the foreign banking organization's home-country supervisor of an internal capital adequacy stress test conducted by
the foreign banking organization, according to the frequency specified in paragraph (b)(2)(A) or (B):
(A) If the foreign banking organization is not a Category IV foreign banking organization, at least annually; or
(B) If the foreign banking organization is a Category IV foreign banking organization, at least biennially; and
(ii) Requirements for governance and controls of stress testing practices by relevant management and the board of directors (or equivalent thereof) of the foreign banking organization;
(c)
Information requirements
—(1)
In general.
A foreign banking organization subject to this subpart must report to the Board by January 5 of each calendar year, unless such date is extended by the Board, summary information about its stress-testing activities and results, including the following quantitative and qualitative information:
(i) A description of the types of risks included in the stress test;
(ii) A description of the conditions or scenarios used in the stress test;
(iii) A summary description of the methodologies used in the stress test;
(iv) Estimates of:
(A) Aggregate losses;
(B) Pre-provision net revenue;
(C) Total loan loss provisions;
(D) Net income before taxes; and
(E) Pro forma regulatory capital ratios required to be computed by the home-country supervisor of the foreign banking organization and any other relevant capital ratios; and
(v) An explanation of the most significant causes for any changes in regulatory capital ratios.
(2)
Additional information required for foreign banking organizations in a net due from position.
If, on a net basis, the U.S. branches and agencies of a foreign banking organization subject to this subpart provide funding to the foreign banking organization's non-U.S. offices and non-U.S. affiliates, calculated as the average daily position over a stress test cycle for a given year, the foreign banking organization must report the following information to the Board by January 5 of each calendar year, unless such date is extended by the Board:
(i) A detailed description of the methodologies used in the stress test, including those employed to estimate losses, revenues, and changes in capital positions;
(ii) Estimates of realized losses or gains on available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities, trading and counterparty losses, if applicable; and loan losses (dollar amount and as a percentage of average portfolio balance) in the aggregate and by material sub-portfolio; and
(iii) Any additional information that the Board requests.
(d)
Imposition of additional standards for capital stress tests.
(1) Unless the Board otherwise determines in writing, a foreign banking organization that does not meet each of the requirements in paragraph (b)(1) and (2) of this section must:
(i) Maintain eligible assets in its U.S. branches and agencies that, on a daily basis, are not less than 108 percent of the average value over each day of the previous calendar quarter of the total liabilities of all U.S. branches and agencies of the foreign banking organization; and
(ii) To the extent that a foreign banking organization has not established a U.S. intermediate holding company, conduct an annual stress test of its U.S. subsidiaries to determine whether those subsidiaries have the capital necessary to absorb losses as a result of adverse economic conditions; and report to the Board on an annual basis a summary of the results of the stress test that includes the information required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and any other information specified by the Board.
(2) An enterprise-wide stress test that is approved by the Board may meet the stress test requirement of paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section.
(3)
Intragroup funding restrictions or liquidity requirements for U.S. operations.
If a foreign banking organization does not meet each of the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, the Board may require the U.S. branches and agencies of the foreign banking organization and, if the foreign banking organization has not established a U.S. intermediate holding company, any U.S. subsidiary of the
foreign banking organization, to maintain a liquidity buffer or be subject to intragroup funding restrictions.
(e)
Notice and response.
If the Board determines to impose one or more conditions under paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the Board will notify the company before it applies the condition, and describe the basis for imposing the condition. Within 14 calendar days of receipt of a notification under this paragraph, the company may request in writing that the Board reconsider the requirement. The Board will respond in writing to the company's request for reconsideration prior to applying the condition.
[Reg. YY, 79 FR 17326, Mar. 27, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 59119, Nov. 1, 2019]

# Subpart P—Covered IHC Long-Term Debt Requirement, Covered IHC Total Loss absorbing Capacity Requirement and Buffer, and Restrictions on Corporate Practices for Intermediate Holding Companies of Global Systemically Important Foreign Banking Organizations

# Source:
82 FR 8311, Jan. 24, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 252.160
Applicability.
(a)
General applicability.
This subpart applies to a U.S. intermediate holding company that is required to be established pursuant to § 252.153 and is controlled by a global systemically important foreign banking organization (Covered IHC).
(b)
Initial applicability.
A Covered IHC is subject to the requirements of §§ 252.162, 252.163, 252.165, 252.166, and 252.167 beginning on the later of:
(1) January 1, 2019; and
(2) 1095 days (three years) after the later of the date on which:
(i) The U.S. non-branch assets of the global systemically important foreign banking organization that controls the Covered IHC equaled or exceeded $50 billion; and
(ii) The foreign banking organization that controls the Covered IHC became a global systemically important foreign banking organization.
(c)
Applicability of § 252.164.
Section 252.164 applies to a global systemically important foreign banking organization with U.S. non-branch assets that equal or exceed $50 billion.
[82 FR 8311, Jan. 24, 2017, as amended at 86 FR 738, Jan. 6, 2021]
§ 252.161
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart:
Additional tier 1 capital
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 217.20(c).
Average total consolidated assets
means the denominator of the leverage ratio as described in 12 CFR 217.10(b)(4).
Common equity tier 1 capital
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 217.20(b).
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 217.10(b)(1) and 12 CFR 217.10(c), as applicable.
Common equity tier 1 minority interest
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 217.2.
Covered IHC
is defined in § 252.160.
Covered IHC TLAC buffer
means, with respect to a Covered IHC, the sum of 2.5 percent and any applicable countercyclical capital buffer under 12 CFR 217.11(b) (expressed as a percentage).
Covered IHC Total loss-absorbing capacity amount
is defined in § 252.165(c).
Default right
(1) Means any:
(i) Right of a party, whether contractual or otherwise (including rights incorporated by reference to any other contract, agreement or document, and rights afforded by statute, civil code, regulation and common law), to liquidate, terminate, cancel, rescind, or accelerate such agreement or transactions thereunder, set off or net amounts owing in respect thereto (except rights related to same-day payment netting), exercise remedies in respect of collateral or other credit support or property related thereto (including the purchase and sale of property), demand payment or delivery thereunder or in respect thereof (other than a right or operation of a contractual provision arising solely from a change in the value of collateral or margin or a change in the amount of an economic exposure), suspend, delay or defer payment or performance thereunder, modify the obligations of a
party thereunder or any similar rights; and
(ii) Right or contractual provision that alters the amount of collateral or margin that must be provided with respect to an exposure thereunder, including by altering any initial amount, threshold amount, variation margin, minimum transfer amount, the margin value of collateral or any similar amount, that entitles a party to demand the return of any collateral or margin transferred by it to the other party or a custodian or that modifies a transferee's right to reuse collateral or margin (if such right previously existed), or any similar rights, in each case, other than a right or operation of a contractual provision arising solely from a change in the value of collateral or margin or a change in the amount of an economic exposure; and
(2) Does not include any right under a contract that allows a party to terminate the contract on demand or at its option at a specified time, or from time to time, without the need to show cause.
Discretionary bonus payment
has the same meaning as under 12 CFR 217.2.
Distribution
has the same meaning as under 12 CFR 217.2.
Eligible Covered IHC debt security
with respect to a non-resolution Covered IHC means eligible internal debt securities issued by the non-resolution Covered IHC, and with respect to a resolution Covered IHC means eligible internal debt securities and eligible external debt securities issued by the resolution Covered IHC.
Eligible external debt security
means:
(1) A debt instrument that:
(i) Is paid in, and issued by the Covered IHC to, and remains held by, a person that does not directly or indirectly control the Covered IHC and is not a wholly owned subsidiary;
(ii) Is not secured, not guaranteed by the Covered IHC or a subsidiary of the Covered IHC, and is not subject to any other arrangement that legally or economically enhances the seniority of the instrument;
(iii) Has a maturity of greater than or equal to 365 days (one year) from the date of issuance;
(iv) Is governed by the laws of the United States or any State thereof;
(v) Does not provide the holder of the instrument a contractual right to accelerate payment of principal or interest on the instrument, except a right that is exercisable on one or more dates that are specified in the instrument or in the event of:
(A) A receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding of the Covered IHC; or
(B) A failure of the Covered IHC to pay principal or interest on the instrument when due and payable that continues for 30 days or more;
(vi) Does not have a credit-sensitive feature, such as an interest rate that is reset periodically based in whole or in part on the Covered IHC's credit quality, but may have an interest rate that is adjusted periodically independent of the Covered IHC's credit quality, in relation to general market interest rates or similar adjustments;
(vii) Is not a structured note; and
(viii) Does not provide that the instrument may be converted into or exchanged for equity of the covered IHC; and
(2) A debt instrument issued prior to December 31, 2016 that:
(i) Is paid in, and issued by the Covered IHC to, and remains held by, a person that does not directly or indirectly control the Covered IHC and is not a wholly owned subsidiary;
(ii) Is not secured, not guaranteed by the Covered IHC or a subsidiary of the Covered IHC, and not subject to any other arrangement that legally or economically enhances the seniority of the instrument;
(iii) Has a maturity of greater than or equal to 365 days (one year) from the date of issuance;
(iv) Does not have a credit-sensitive feature, such as an interest rate that is reset periodically based in whole or in part on the Covered IHC's credit quality, but may have an interest rate that is adjusted periodically independent of the Covered IHC's credit quality, in relation to general market interest rates or similar adjustments;
(v) Is not a structured note; and
(vi) Does not provide that the instrument may be converted into or exchanged for equity of the Covered IHC.
Eligible internal debt security
means a debt instrument that:
(i) Is paid in, and issued by the Covered IHC;
(ii) Is not secured, not guaranteed by the Covered IHC or a subsidiary of the Covered IHC, and is not subject to any other arrangement that legally or economically enhances the seniority of the instrument;
(iii) Has a maturity of greater than or equal to 365 days (one year) from the date of issuance;
(iv) Is governed by the laws of the United States or any State thereof;
(v) Does not provide the holder of the instrument a contractual right to accelerate payment of principal or interest on the instrument, except a right that is exercisable on one or more dates that are specified in the instrument or in the event of:
(A) A receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding of the Covered IHC; or
(B) A failure of the Covered IHC to pay principal or interest on the instrument when due and payable that continues for 30 days or more;
(vi) Is not a structured note;
(vii) Is issued to and remains held by a company that is incorporated or organized outside of the United States, and directly or indirectly controls the Covered IHC or is a wholly owned subsidiary; and
(viii) Has a contractual provision that is approved by the Board that provides for the immediate conversion or exchange of the instrument into common equity tier 1 of the Covered IHC upon issuance by the Board of an internal debt conversion order.
GAAP
means generally accepted accounting principles as used in the United States.
Internal debt conversion order
means an order by the Board to immediately convert to, or exchange for, common equity tier 1 capital an amount of eligible internal debt securities of the Covered IHC specified by the Board in its discretion, as described in § 252.163.
Non-resolution Covered IHC
means a Covered IHC identified as or determined to be a non-resolution Covered IHC pursuant to § 252.164.
Outstanding eligible Covered IHC long-term debt amount
is defined in § 252.162(b).
Person
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 225.2.
Qualified financial contract
has the same meaning as in section 210(c)(8)(D) of Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(D)).
Resolution Covered IHC
means a Covered IHC identified as or determined to be a resolution Covered IHC pursuant to § 252.164.
Standardized total risk-weighted assets
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 217.2.
Structured note
means a debt instrument that:
(1) Has a principal amount, redemption amount, or stated maturity that is subject to reduction based on the performance of any asset, entity, index, or embedded derivative or similar embedded feature;
(2) Has an embedded derivative or other similar embedded feature that is linked to one or more equity securities, commodities, assets, or entities;
(3) Does not specify a minimum principal amount that becomes due and payable upon acceleration or early termination; or
(4) Is not classified as debt under GAAP, provided that an instrument is not a structured note solely because it is one or both of the following:
(i) A non-dollar-denominated instrument, or
(ii) An instrument whose interest payments are based on an interest rate index.
Supplementary leverage ratio
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 217.10(c)(4).
Tier 1 minority interest
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 217.2.
Tier 2 capital
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 217.20(d).
Total leverage exposure
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 217.10(c)(4)(ii).
Total risk-weighted assets,
with respect to a Covered IHC, is equal to the Covered IHC's standardized total risk-weighted assets.
U.S. non-branch assets
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 252.152(b)(2).
Wholly owned subsidiary
means an entity, all of the outstanding ownership interests of which are owned directly or indirectly by a global systemically
important foreign banking organization that directly or indirectly controls a Covered IHC, except that up to 0.5 percent of the entity's outstanding ownership interests may be held by a third party if the ownership interest is acquired or retained by the third party for the purpose of establishing corporate separateness or addressing bankruptcy, insolvency, or similar concerns.

# Editorial Note:
At 82 FR 8311, Jan. 24, 2017, subpart P to part 252 was added, including § 252.161. The definition of
Eligible internal debt security
in § 252.161 was set out with inaccurate paragraph codification.
§ 252.162
Covered IHC long-term debt requirement.
(a)
Covered IHC long-term debt requirement.
A Covered IHC must have an outstanding eligible Covered IHC long-term debt amount that is no less than the amount equal to the greatest of:
(1) 6 percent of the Covered IHC's total risk-weighted assets;
(2) If the Covered IHC is required to maintain a minimum supplementary leverage ratio, 2.5 percent of the Covered IHC's total leverage exposure; and
(3) 3.5 percent of the Covered IHC's average total consolidated assets.
(b)
Outstanding eligible Covered IHC long-term debt amount.
(1) A Covered IHC's outstanding eligible Covered IHC long-term debt amount is the sum of:
(i) One hundred (100) percent of the amount due to be paid of unpaid principal of the outstanding eligible Covered IHC debt securities issued by the Covered IHC in greater than or equal to 730 days (two years); and
(ii) Fifty (50) percent of the amount due to be paid of unpaid principal of the outstanding eligible Covered IHC debt securities issued by the Covered IHC in greater than or equal to 365 days (one year) and less than 730 days (two years); and
(iii) Zero (0) percent of the amount due to be paid of unpaid principal of the outstanding eligible Covered IHC debt securities issued by the Covered IHC in less than 365 days (one year).
(2) For purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the date on which principal is due to be paid on an outstanding eligible Covered IHC debt security is calculated from the earlier of:
(i) The date on which payment of principal is required under the terms governing the instrument, without respect to any right of the holder to accelerate payment of principal; and
(ii) The date the holder of the instrument first has the contractual right to request or require payment of the amount of principal, provided that, with respect to a right that is exercisable on one or more dates that are specified in the instrument only on the occurrence of an event (other than an event of a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding of the Covered IHC, or a failure of the Covered IHC to pay principal or interest on the instrument when due), the date for the outstanding eligible Covered IHC debt security under this paragraph (b)(2)(ii) will be calculated as if the event has occurred.
(3) After notice and response proceedings consistent with 12 CFR part 263, subpart E, the Board may order a Covered IHC to exclude from its outstanding eligible Covered IHC long-term debt amount any debt security with one or more features that would significantly impair the ability of such debt security to take losses.
(c)
Redemption and repurchase.
Without the prior approval of the Board, a Covered IHC may not redeem or repurchase any outstanding eligible Covered IHC debt security if, immediately after the redemption or repurchase, the Covered IHC would not have an outstanding eligible Covered IHC long-term debt amount that is sufficient to meet its Covered IHC long-term debt requirement under paragraph (a) of this section.
[82 FR 8311, Jan. 24, 2017, as amended at 86 FR 738, Jan. 6, 2021]
§ 252.163
Internal debt conversion order.
(a) The Board may issue an internal debt conversion order if:
(1) The Board has determined that the Covered IHC is in default or danger of default; and
(2) Any of the following circumstances apply:
(i) A foreign banking organization that directly or indirectly controls the Covered IHC or any subsidiary of the top-tier foreign banking organization
has been placed into resolution proceedings (including the application of statutory resolution powers) in its home country;
(ii) The home country supervisor of the top-tier foreign banking organization has consented or not promptly objected after notification by the Board to the conversion or exchange of the eligible internal debt securities of the Covered IHC; or
(iii) The Board has made a written recommendation to the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5383(a) regarding the Covered IHC.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the Board will consider:
(1) A Covered IHC in default or danger of default if
(i) A case has been, or likely will promptly be, commenced with respect to the Covered IHC under the Bankruptcy Code (11 U.S.C. 101
et seq.
);
(ii) The Covered IHC has incurred, or is likely to incur, losses that will deplete all or substantially all of its capital, and there is no reasonable prospect for the Covered IHC to avoid such depletion;
(iii) The assets of the Covered IHC are, or are likely to be, less than its obligations to creditors and others; or
(iv) The Covered IHC is, or is likely to be, unable to pay its obligations (other than those subject to a bona fide dispute) in the normal course of business; and
(2) An objection by the home country supervisor to the conversion or exchange of the eligible internal debt securities to be prompt if the Board receives the objection no later than 24 hours after the Board requests such consent or non-objection from the home country supervisor.
§ 252.164
Identification as a resolution Covered IHC or a non-resolution Covered IHC.
(a)
Initial certification.
The top-tier global systemically important foreign banking organization with U.S. non-branch assets that equal or exceed $50 billion must certify to the Board on the later of June 30, 2017, or one year prior to the date on which a Covered IHC becomes subject to the requirements of this subpart pursuant to § 252.160(b) whether the planned resolution strategy of the top-tier foreign banking organization involves the Covered IHC or the subsidiaries of the Covered IHC entering resolution, receivership, insolvency, or similar proceedings in the United States.
(b)
Certification update.
The top-tier global systemically important foreign banking organization with U.S. non-branch assets that equal or exceed $50 billion must provide an updated certification to the Board upon a change in the resolution strategy described in the certification provided pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Identification of a resolution Covered IHC.
A Covered IHC is a resolution Covered IHC if the most recent certification provided pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section indicates that the top-tier foreign banking organization's planned resolution strategy involves the Covered IHC or the subsidiaries of the Covered IHC entering resolution, receivership, insolvency, or similar proceedings in the United States.
(d)
Identification of a non-resolution Covered IHC.
A Covered IHC is a non-resolution Covered IHC if the most recent certification provided pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section indicates that the top-tier foreign banking organization's planned resolution strategy involves neither the Covered IHC nor the subsidiaries of the Covered IHC entering resolution, receivership, insolvency, or similar proceedings in the United States.
(e)
Board determination.
The Board may determine in its discretion that a non-resolution Covered IHC identified pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section is a resolution Covered IHC, or that a resolution Covered IHC identified pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section is a non-resolution Covered IHC.
(f)
Transition.
(1) A Covered IHC identified as a resolution Covered IHC pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section or determined by the Board to be a resolution Covered IHC pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section must comply with the requirements in this subpart applicable to a resolution Covered IHC within 365 days (one year) after such identification or determination, unless
such time period is extended by the Board in its discretion.
(2) A Covered IHC identified as a non-resolution Covered IHC pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section or determined by the Board to be a non-resolution Covered IHC pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section must comply with the requirements in this subpart applicable to a non-resolution Covered IHC 365 days (one year) after such identification or determination, unless such time period is extended by the Board in its discretion.
§ 252.165
Covered IHC total loss-absorbing capacity requirement and buffer.
(a)
Covered IHC total loss-absorbing capacity requirement for a resolution Covered IHC.
A resolution Covered IHC must have an outstanding Covered IHC total loss-absorbing capacity amount that is no less than the amount equal to the greatest of:
(1) 18 percent of the resolution Covered IHC's total risk-weighted assets;
(2) If the Board requires the resolution Covered IHC to maintain a minimum supplementary leverage ratio, 6.75 percent of the resolution Covered IHC's total leverage exposure; and
(3) Nine (9) percent of the resolution Covered IHC's average total consolidated assets.
(b)
Covered IHC total loss-absorbing capacity requirement for a non-resolution Covered IHC.
A non-resolution Covered IHC must have an outstanding Covered IHC total loss-absorbing capacity amount that is no less than the amount equal to the greatest of:
(1) 16 percent of the non-resolution Covered IHC's total risk-weighted assets;
(2) If the Board requires the non-resolution Covered IHC to maintain a minimum supplementary leverage ratio, 6 percent of the non-resolution Covered IHC's total leverage exposure; and
(3) Eight (8) percent of the non-resolution Covered IHC's average total consolidated assets.
(c)
Covered IHC Total loss-absorbing capacity amount.
(1) A non-resolution Covered IHC's Covered IHC total loss-absorbing capacity amount is equal to the sum of:
(i) The Covered IHC's common equity tier 1 capital (excluding any common equity tier 1 minority interest) held by a company that is incorporated or organized outside of the United States and that directly or indirectly controls the Covered IHC;
(ii) The Covered IHC's additional tier 1 capital (excluding any tier 1 minority interest) held by a company that is incorporated or organized outside of the United States and that directly or indirectly controls the Covered IHC; and
(iii) The Covered IHC's outstanding eligible Covered IHC long-term debt amount, plus 50 percent of the amount of unpaid principal of outstanding eligible Covered IHC debt securities issued by the Covered IHC due to be paid in greater than or equal to 365 days (one year) but less than 730 days (two years).
(2) A resolution Covered IHC's Covered IHC total loss-absorbing capacity amount is equal to the sum of:
(i) The Covered IHC's common equity tier 1 capital (excluding any common equity tier 1 minority interest);
(ii) The Covered IHC's additional tier 1 capital (excluding any tier 1 minority interest); and
(iii) The Covered IHC's outstanding eligible Covered IHC long-term debt amount, plus 50 percent of the amount of unpaid principal of outstanding eligible Covered IHC debt securities issued by the Covered IHC due to be paid in greater than or equal to 365 days (one year) but less than 730 days (two years).
(d)
Covered IHC TLAC buffer
—(1)
Composition of the Covered IHC TLAC buffer.
The Covered IHC TLAC buffer is composed solely of common equity tier 1 capital.
(2)
Definitions.
For purposes of this paragraph, the following definitions apply:
(i)
Eligible retained income.
The eligible retained income of a Covered IHC is the greater of:
(A) The Covered IHC's net income, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-9C, for the four calendar quarters preceding the current calendar quarter, net of any distributions and associated tax effects not already reflected in net income; and
(B) The average of the Covered IHC's net income, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-9C, for the four calendar quarters preceding the current calendar quarter.
(ii)
Maximum Covered IHC TLAC payout ratio.
The maximum Covered IHC TLAC payout ratio is the percentage of eligible retained income that a Covered IHC can pay out in the form of distributions and discretionary bonus payments during the current calendar quarter. The maximum Covered IHC TLAC payout ratio is based on the Covered IHC's Covered IHC TLAC buffer level, calculated as of the last day of the previous calendar quarter, as set forth in Table 1 to § 252.165.
(iii)
Maximum Covered IHC TLAC payout amount.
A Covered IHC's maximum Covered IHC TLAC payout amount for the current calendar quarter is equal to the Covered IHC's eligible retained income, multiplied by the applicable maximum Covered IHC TLAC payout ratio, as set forth in Table 1 to § 252.165.
(3)
Calculation of the Covered IHC TLAC buffer level.
(i) A Covered IHC's Covered IHC TLAC buffer level is equal to the Covered IHC's common equity tier 1 capital ratio (expressed as a percentage) minus the greater of zero and the following amount:
(A) 16 percent for a non-resolution Covered IHC, and 18 percent for a resolution Covered IHC; minus
(B)(
1
) For a non-resolution Covered IHC, the ratio (expressed as a percentage) of the Covered IHC's additional tier 1 capital (excluding any tier 1 minority interest) held by a company that is incorporated or organized outside of the United States and that directly or indirectly controls the Covered IHC to the Covered IHC's total risk-weighted assets;
(
2
) For a resolution Covered IHC, the ratio (expressed as a percentage of the Covered IHC's additional tier 1 capital (excluding any tier 1 minority interest) to the Covered IHC's total-risk weighted assets; and minus
(C) The ratio (expressed as a percentage) of the Covered IHC's outstanding eligible Covered IHC long-term debt amount plus 50 percent of the amount of unpaid principal of outstanding eligible Covered IHC debt securities issued by the Covered IHC due to be paid in, as calculated in § 252.162(b)(2), greater than or equal to 365 days (one year) but less than 730 days (two years) to total risk-weighted assets.
(ii)(A) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, with respect to a resolution Covered IHC, if the ratio (expressed as a percentage) of the resolution Covered IHC's Covered IHC total loss-absorbing capacity amount, as calculated under § 252.165(a), to the resolution Covered IHC's risk-weighted assets is less than or equal to, 18 percent, the Covered IHC's Covered IHC TLAC buffer level is zero.
(B) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, with respect to a non-resolution Covered IHC, if the ratio (expressed as a percentage) of the non-resolution Covered IHC's Covered IHC total loss-absorbing capacity amount, as calculated under § 252.165(b), to the Covered IHC's risk-weighted assets is less than or equal to 16 percent, the non-resolution Covered IHC's Covered IHC TLAC buffer level is zero.
(4)
Limits on distributions and discretionary bonus payments.
(i) A Covered IHC shall not make distributions or discretionary bonus payments or create an obligation to make such distributions or payments during the current calendar quarter that, in the aggregate, exceed the maximum Covered IHC TLAC payout amount.
(ii) A Covered IHC with a Covered IHC TLAC buffer level that is greater than the Covered IHC TLAC buffer is not subject to a maximum Covered IHC TLAC payout amount.
(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(4)(iv) of this section, a Covered IHC may not make distributions or discretionary bonus payments during the current calendar quarter if the Covered IHC's:
(A) Eligible retained income is negative; and
(B) Covered IHC TLAC buffer level was less than the Covered IHC TLAC buffer as of the end of the previous calendar quarter.
(iv) Notwithstanding the limitations in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section, the Board may permit a Covered IHC to make a distribution or discretionary bonus payment upon a request of the Covered IHC, if the
Board determines that the distribution or discretionary bonus payment would not be contrary to the purposes of this section, or to the safety and soundness of the Covered IHC. In making such a determination, the Board will consider the nature and extent of the request and the particular circumstances giving rise to the request.
Table 1 to § 252.165—Calculation of Maximum Covered IHC TLAC Payout Amount
Covered IHC TLAC buffer level
Maximum Covered IHC TLAC payout ratio
(as a percentage of eligible retained income)
Greater than the Covered IHC TLAC buffer
No payout ratio limitation applies.
Less than or equal to the Covered IHC TLAC buffer,
and
greater than 75 percent of the Covered IHC TLAC buffer
60 percent.
Less than or equal to 75 percent of the Covered IHC TLAC buffer,
and
greater than 50 percent of the Covered IHC TLAC buffer
40 percent.
Less than or equal to 50 percent of the Covered IHC TLAC buffer,
and
greater 25 percent of the Covered IHC TLAC buffer
20 percent.
Less than or equal to 25 percent of the Covered IHC TLAC buffer
0 percent.
(v)(A) A Covered IHC is subject to the lowest of the maximum payout amounts as determined under 12 CFR 217.11(a)(2) and the maximum Covered IHC TLAC payout amount as determined under this paragraph.
(B) Additional limitations on distributions may apply to a Covered IHC under 12 CFR 225.4, 225.8, and 263.202.
[82 FR 8311, Jan. 24, 2017, as amended at 85 FR 17006, Mar. 26, 2020; 86 FR 738, Jan. 6, 2021]
§ 252.166
Restrictions on corporate practices of intermediate holding companies of global systemically important foreign banking organizations.
(a)
Prohibited corporate practices.
A Covered IHC may not directly:
(1) Issue any debt instrument with an original maturity of less than 365 days (one year), including short term deposits and demand deposits, to any person, unless the person is an affiliate of the Covered IHC;
(2) Issue any instrument, or enter into any related contract, with respect to which the holder of the instrument has a contractual right to offset debt owed by the holder or its affiliates to the Covered IHC or a subsidiary of the Covered IHC against the amount, or a portion of the amount, owed by the Covered IHC under the instrument;
(3) Enter into a qualified financial contract that is not a credit enhancement with a person that is not an affiliate of the Covered IHC;
(4) Enter into an agreement in which the Covered IHC guarantees a liability of an affiliate of the Covered IHC if such liability permits the exercise of a default right that is related, directly or indirectly, to the Covered IHC becoming subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding other than a receivership proceeding under Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5381 through 5394) unless the liability is subject to requirements of the Board restricting such default rights or subject to any similar requirements of another U.S. federal banking agency; or
(5) Enter into, or otherwise benefit from, any agreement that provides for its liabilities to be guaranteed by any of its subsidiaries.
(b)
Limit on unrelated liabilities.
(1) The aggregate amount, on an unconsolidated basis, of unrelated liabilities of a Covered IHC may not exceed 5 percent of the Covered IHC's Covered IHC total loss-absorbing capacity amount, as calculated under § 252.165(c).
(2) For purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, an unrelated liability includes:
(i) With respect to a non-resolution Covered IHC, any non-contingent liability of the non-resolution Covered IHC owed to a person that is not an affiliate of the non-resolution Covered IHC other than those liabilities specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, and
(ii) With respect to a resolution Covered IHC, any non-contingent liability of the resolution Covered IHC owed to a person that is not a subsidiary of the resolution Covered IHC other than those liabilities specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(3)(i) The instruments that are used to satisfy the Covered IHC's Covered IHC total loss-absorbing capacity
amount, as calculated under § 252.165(a);
(ii) Any dividend or other liability arising from the instruments that are used to satisfy the Covered IHC's Covered IHC total loss-absorbing capacity amount, as calculated under § 252.165(c)(2);
(iii) An eligible Covered IHC debt security that does not provide the holder of the instrument with a currently exercisable right to require immediate payment of the total or remaining principal amount; and
(iv) A secured liability, to the extent that it is secured, or a liability that otherwise represents a claim that would be senior to eligible Covered IHC debt securities in Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5390(b)) and the Bankruptcy Code (11 U.S.C. 507).
(c) A Covered IHC is not subject to paragraph (b) of this section if all of the eligible Covered IHC debt securities issued by the Covered IHC would represent the most subordinated debt claim in a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding of the Covered IHC.
§ 252.167
Disclosure requirements for resolution Covered IHCs.
(a) A resolution Covered IHC that has any outstanding eligible external debt securities must publicly disclose a description of the financial consequences to unsecured debtholders of the resolution Covered IHC entering into a resolution proceeding in which the resolution Covered IHC is the only entity in the United States that would be subject to the resolution proceeding.
(b) A resolution Covered IHC must provide the disclosure required by paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) In the offering documents for all of its eligible external debt securities; and
(2) Either:
(i) On the resolution Covered IHC's Web site; or
(ii) In more than one public financial report or other public regulatory reports, provided that the resolution Covered IHC publicly provides a summary table specifically indicating the location(s) of this disclosure.

# Subpart Q—Single-Counterparty Credit Limits

# Source:
83 FR 38501, Aug. 6, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
§ 252.170
Applicability and general provisions.
(a)
In general.
(1) This subpart establishes single counterparty credit limits for a covered foreign entity.
(2) For purposes of this subpart:
(i)
Covered foreign entity
means:
(A) A Category II foreign banking organization;
(B) A Category III foreign banking organization;
(C) A foreign banking organization with total consolidated assets that equal or exceed $250 billion;
(D) A Category II U.S. intermediate holding company; and
(E) A Category III U.S. intermediate holding company.
(ii)
Major foreign banking organization
means a foreign banking organization that is a covered foreign entity and meets the requirements of § 252.172(c)(3) through (5).
(b)
Credit exposure limits.
(1) Section 252.172 establishes credit exposure limits for covered foreign entities and major foreign banking organizations.
(2) A covered foreign entity is required to calculate its aggregate net credit exposure, gross credit exposure, and net credit exposure to a counterparty using the methods in this subpart.
(c)
Applicability of this subpart
—(1)
Foreign banking organizations.
(i) A foreign banking organization that is a covered foreign entity as of October 5, 2018, must comply with the requirements of this subpart, including but not limited to § 252.172, beginning on January 1, 2022, unless that time is extended by the Board in writing.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, a foreign banking organization that is a major foreign banking organization as of October 5, 2018, must comply with the requirements of this subpart, including but not limited to § 252.172, beginning on July 1, 2021, unless that time is extended by the Board in writing.
(2)
U.S. intermediate holding companies.
(i) A U.S. intermediate holding
company that is a covered foreign entity as of October 5, 2018, must comply with the requirements of this subpart, including but not limited to § 252.172, beginning on July 1, 2020, unless that time is extended by the Board in writing.
(ii) [Reserved]
(iii) A U.S. intermediate holding company that becomes a covered foreign entity subject to this subpart after October 5, 2018, must comply with the requirements of this subpart beginning on the first day of the ninth calendar quarter after it becomes a covered foreign entity, unless that time is accelerated or extended by the Board in writing.
(d)
Cessation of requirements
—(1)
Foreign banking organizations.
(i) Any foreign banking organization that becomes a covered foreign entity will remain subject to the requirements of this subpart unless and until:
(A) The covered foreign entity is not a Category II foreign banking organization;
(B) The covered foreign entity is not a Category III foreign banking organization; and
(C) Its total consolidated assets fall below $250 billion for each of four consecutive quarters, as reported on the covered foreign entity's FR Y-7Q, effective on the as-of date of the fourth consecutive FR Y-7Q.
(ii) A foreign banking organization that is a covered foreign entity and that has ceased to be a major foreign banking organization for purposes of § 252.172(c) is no longer subject to the requirements of § 252.172(c) beginning on the first day of the calendar quarter following the reporting date on which it ceased to be a major foreign banking organization; provided that the foreign banking organization remains subject to the requirements of this subpart, unless it ceases to be a foreign banking organization that is a covered foreign entity pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section.
(2)
U.S. intermediate holding companies.
(i) Any U.S. intermediate holding company that becomes a covered foreign entity will remain subject to the requirements of this subpart unless and until:
(A) The covered foreign entity is not a Category II U.S. intermediate holding company; or
(B) The covered foreign entity is not a Category III U.S. intermediate holding company.
[84 FR 59119, Nov. 1, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 31952, May 28, 2020]
§ 252.171
Definitions.
Unless defined in this section, terms that are set forth in § 252.2 of this part and used in this subpart have the definitions assigned in § 252.2. For purposes of this subpart:
(a)
Adjusted market value
means:
(1) With respect to the value of cash, securities, or other eligible collateral transferred by the covered foreign entity to a counterparty, the sum of:
(i) The market value of the cash, securities, or other eligible collateral; and
(ii) The product of the market value of the securities or other eligible collateral multiplied by the applicable collateral haircut in Table 1 to § 217.132 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.132); and
(2) With respect to cash, securities, or other eligible collateral received by the covered foreign entity from a counterparty:
(i) The market value of the cash, securities, or other eligible collateral; minus
(ii) The market value of the securities or other eligible collateral multiplied by the applicable collateral haircut in Table 1 to § 217.132 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.132).
(3) Prior to calculating the adjusted market value pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) of this section, with regard to a transaction that meets the definition of “repo-style transaction” in § 217.2 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.2), the covered foreign entity would first multiply the applicable collateral haircuts in Table 1 to § 217.132 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.132) by the square root of
1/2
.
(b)
Affiliate
means, with respect to a company:
(1) Any subsidiary of the company and any other company that is consolidated with the company under applicable accounting standards; or
(2) For a company that is not subject to principles or standards referenced in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, any subsidiary of the company and any other company that would be consolidated with the company, if consolidation would have occurred if such principles or standards had applied.
(c)
Aggregate net credit exposure
means the sum of all net credit exposures of a covered foreign entity and all of its subsidiaries to a single counterparty as calculated under this subpart.
(d)
Bank-eligible investments
means investment securities that a national bank is permitted to purchase, sell, deal in, underwrite, and hold under 12 U.S.C. 24 (Seventh) and 12 CFR part 1.
(e)
Capital stock and surplus
means, with respect to a U.S. intermediate holding company, the sum of the following amounts in each case as reported by the U.S. intermediate holding company on the most recent FR Y-9C on a consolidated basis:
(1) The tier 1 capital and tier 2 capital of the U.S. intermediate holding company, as calculated under the capital adequacy guidelines applicable to that U.S. intermediate holding company under subpart O of the Board's Regulation YY (12 CFR part 252, subpart O); and
(2) The excess allowance for loan and lease losses of the U.S. intermediate holding company not included in its tier 2 capital, as calculated under the capital adequacy guidelines applicable to that U.S. intermediate holding company under subpart O of the Board's Regulation YY (12 CFR part 252, subpart O).
(f)
Counterparty
means with respect to a credit transaction:
(1) With respect to a natural person:
(i) The natural person;
(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section, if the credit exposure of the covered foreign entity to such natural person exceeds 5 percent of tier 1 capital, the natural person and members of the person's immediate family collectively; and
(iii) Until January 1, 2021, with respect to a U.S. intermediate holding company that is a covered foreign entity and that has less than $250 billion in total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2019, if the credit exposure of the U.S. intermediate holding company to such natural person exceeds 5 percent of its capital stock and surplus, the natural person and member of the person's immediately family collectively.
(2) With respect to any company that is not an affiliate of the covered foreign entity, the company and its affiliates collectively;
(3) With respect to a State, the State and all of its agencies, instrumentalities, and political subdivisions (including any municipalities) collectively;
(4) With respect to a foreign sovereign entity that is not assigned a zero percent risk weight under the standardized approach in the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR part 217, subpart D), other than the home country foreign sovereign entity of a foreign banking organization, the foreign sovereign entity and all of its agencies and instrumentalities (but not including any political subdivision), collectively; and
(5) With respect to a political subdivision of a foreign sovereign entity such as a state, province, or municipality, any political subdivision of the foreign sovereign entity and all of such political subdivision's agencies and instrumentalities, collectively.
1
1
In addition, under § 252.176, under certain circumstances, a covered foreign entity is required to aggregate its net credit exposure to one or more counterparties for all purposes under this subpart.
(g)
Covered foreign entity
is defined in § 252.170(a)(2)(i) of this subpart.
(h)
Credit derivative
has the same meaning as in § 217.2 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.2).
(i)
Credit transaction
means, with respect to a counterparty:
(1) Any extension of credit to the counterparty, including loans, deposits, and lines of credit, but excluding uncommitted lines of credit;
(2) Any repurchase agreement or reverse repurchase agreement with the counterparty;
(3) Any securities lending or securities borrowing transaction with the counterparty;
(4) Any guarantee, acceptance, or letter of credit (including any endorsement, confirmed letter of credit, or standby letter of credit) issued on behalf of the counterparty;
(5) Any purchase of securities issued by or other investment in the counterparty;
(6) Any credit exposure to the counterparty in connection with a derivative transaction between the covered foreign entity and the counterparty;
(7) Any credit exposure to the counterparty in connection with a credit derivative or equity derivative between the covered foreign entity and a third party, the reference asset of which is an obligation or equity security of, or equity investment in, the counterparty; and
(8) Any transaction that is the functional equivalent of the above, and any other similar transaction that the Board, by regulation, determines to be a credit transaction for purposes of this subpart.
(j)
Depository institution
has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)).
(k)
Derivative transaction
means any transaction that is a contract, agreement, swap, warrant, note, or option that is based, in whole or in part, on the value of, any interest in, or any quantitative measure or the occurrence of any event relating to, one or more commodities, securities, currencies, interest or other rates, indices, or other assets.
(l)
Eligible collateral
means collateral in which, notwithstanding the prior security interest of any custodial agent, the covered foreign entity has a perfected, first priority security interest (or the legal equivalent thereof, if outside of the United States), with the exception of cash on deposit, and is in the form of:
(1) Cash on deposit with the covered foreign entity or an affiliate of the covered foreign entity (including cash in foreign currency or U.S. dollars held for the covered foreign entity by a custodian or trustee, whether inside or outside of the United States);
(2) Debt securities (other than mortgage- or asset-backed securities and resecuritization securities, unless those securities are issued by a U.S. government-sponsored enterprise) that are bank-eligible investments and that are investment grade, except for any debt securities issued by the covered foreign entity or any affiliate of the covered foreign entity;
(3) Equity securities that are publicly traded, except for any equity securities issued by the covered foreign entity or any affiliate of the covered foreign entity;
(4) Convertible bonds that are publicly traded, except for any convertible bonds issued by the covered foreign entity or any affiliate of the covered foreign entity; or
(5) Gold bullion.
(m)
Eligible credit derivative
means a single-name credit derivative or a standard, non-tranched index credit derivative, provided that:
(1) The contract meets the requirements of an eligible guarantee and has been confirmed by the protection purchaser and the protection provider;
(2) Any assignment of the contract has been confirmed by all relevant parties;
(3) If the credit derivative is a credit default swap, the contract includes the following credit events:
(i) Failure to pay any amount due under the terms of the reference exposure, subject to any applicable minimal payment threshold that is consistent with standard market practice and with a grace period that is closely in line with the grace period of the reference exposure; and
(ii) Receivership, insolvency, liquidation, conservatorship, or inability of the reference exposure issuer to pay its debts, or its failure or admission in writing of its inability generally to pay its debts as they become due, and similar events;
(4) The terms and conditions dictating the manner in which the contract is to be settled are incorporated into the contract;
(5) If the contract allows for cash settlement, the contract incorporates a robust valuation process to estimate loss reliably and specifies a reasonable period for obtaining post-credit event valuations of the reference exposure;
(6) If the contract requires the protection purchaser to transfer an exposure to the protection provider at settlement, the terms of at least one of the exposures that is permitted to be transferred under the contract provide
that any required consent to transfer may not be unreasonably withheld; and
(7) If the credit derivative is a credit default swap, the contract clearly identifies the parties responsible for determining whether a credit event has occurred, specifies that this determination is not the sole responsibility of the protection provider, and gives the protection purchaser the right to notify the protection provider of the occurrence of a credit event.
(n)
Eligible equity derivative
means an equity derivative, provided that:
(1) The derivative contract has been confirmed by all relevant parties;
(2) Any assignment of the derivative contract has been confirmed by all relevant parties; and
(3) The terms and conditions dictating the manner in which the derivative contract is to be settled are incorporated into the contract.
(o)
Eligible guarantee
has the same meaning as in § 217.2 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.2).
(p)
Eligible guarantor
has the same meaning as in § 217.2 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.2), but does not include the foreign banking organization or any entity that is an affiliate of either the U.S. intermediate holding company or of any part of the foreign banking organization's combined U.S. operations.
(q)
Equity derivative
has the same meaning as “equity derivative contract” in § 217.2 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.2).
(r)
Exempt counterparty
means an entity that is identified as exempt from the requirements of this subpart under § 252.177, or that is otherwise excluded from this subpart, including any sovereign entity assigned a zero percent risk weight under the standardized approach in the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR part 217, subpart D).
(s)
Financial entity
means:
(1)(i) A bank holding company or an affiliate thereof; a savings and loan holding company as defined in section 10(n) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(n)); a U.S. intermediate holding company established or designated for purposes of compliance with this part; or a nonbank financial company supervised by the Board;
(ii) A depository institution as defined in section 3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)); an organization that is organized under the laws of a foreign country and that engages directly in the business of banking outside the United States; a federal credit union or state credit union as defined in section 2 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752(1) and (6)); a national association, state member bank, or state nonmember bank that is not a depository institution; an institution that functions solely in a trust or fiduciary capacity as described in section 2(c)(2)(D) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)(2)(D)); an industrial loan company, an industrial bank, or other similar institution described in section 2(c)(2)(H) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)(2)(H));
(iii) An entity that is state-licensed or registered as:
(A) A credit or lending entity, including a finance company; money lender; installment lender; consumer lender or lending company; mortgage lender, broker, or bank; motor vehicle title pledge lender; payday or deferred deposit lender; premium finance company; commercial finance or lending company; or commercial mortgage company; except entities registered or licensed solely on account of financing the entity's direct sales of goods or services to customers;
(B) A money services business, including a check casher; money transmitter; currency dealer or exchange; or money order or traveler's check issuer;
(iv) Any person registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a swap dealer or major swap participant pursuant to the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), or an entity that is registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as a security-based swap dealer or a major security-based swap participant pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
);
(v) A securities holding company as defined in section 618 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 1850a);
a broker or dealer as defined in sections 3(a)(4) and 3(a)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(4)-(5)); an investment adviser as defined in section 202(a) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)); an investment company registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
); or a company that has elected to be regulated as a business development company pursuant to section 54(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-53(a));
(vi) A private fund as defined in section 202(a) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)); an entity that would be an investment company under section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3) but for section 3(c)(5)(C); or an entity that is deemed not to be an investment company under section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 pursuant to Investment Company Act Rule 3a-7 (17 CFR 270.3a-7) of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission;
(vii) A commodity pool, a commodity pool operator, or a commodity trading advisor as defined, respectively, in sections 1a(10), 1a(11), and 1a(12) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1a(10), 1a(11), and 1a(12)); a floor broker, a floor trader, or introducing broker as defined, respectively, in sections 1a(22), 1a(23) and 1a(31) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1a(22), 1a(23), and 1a(31)); or a futures commission merchant as defined in section 1a(28) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1a(28));
(viii) An employee benefit plan as defined in paragraphs (3) and (32) of section 3 of the Employee Retirement Income and Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002);
(ix) An entity that is organized as an insurance company, primarily engaged in writing insurance or reinsuring risks underwritten by insurance companies, or is subject to supervision as such by a State insurance regulator or foreign insurance regulator;
(x) Any designated financial market utility, as defined in section 803 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5462); and
(xi) An entity that would be a financial entity described in paragraphs (s)(1)(i) through (x) of this section, if it were organized under the laws of the United States or any State thereof; and
(2) Provided that, for purposes of this subpart, “financial entity” does not include any counterparty that is a foreign sovereign entity or multilateral development bank.
(t)
Foreign sovereign entity
means a sovereign entity other than the United States government and the entity's agencies, departments, ministries, and central bank.
(u)
Gross credit exposure
means, with respect to any credit transaction, the credit exposure of the covered foreign entity before adjusting, pursuant to § 252.174, for the effect of any qualifying master netting agreement, eligible collateral, eligible guarantee, eligible credit derivative, eligible equity derivative, other eligible hedge, and any unused portion of certain extensions of credit.
(v)
Immediate family
means the spouse of an individual, the individual's minor children, and any of the individual's children (including adults) residing in the individual's home.
(w)
Intraday credit exposure
means credit exposure of a covered foreign entity to a counterparty that by its terms is to be repaid, sold, or terminated by the end of its business day in the United States.
(x)
Investment grade
has the same meaning as in § 217.2 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.2).
(y)
Major counterparty
means any counterparty that is or includes:
(1) A U.S. bank holding company identified as a global systemically important BHC pursuant to § 217.402 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.402);
(2) A top-tier foreign banking organization that meets the requirements of § 252.172(c)(3) through (5); or
(3) Any nonbank financial company supervised by the Board.
(z)
Major foreign banking organization
is defined in § 252.170(a)(2)(ii) of this subpart.
(aa)
Multilateral development bank
has the same meaning as in § 217.2 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.2).
(bb)
Net credit exposure
means, with respect to any credit transaction, the
gross credit exposure of a covered foreign entity and all of its subsidiaries calculated under § 252.173, as adjusted in accordance with § 252.174.
(cc)
Qualifying central counterparty
has the same meaning as in § 217.2 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.2).
(dd)
Qualifying master netting agreement
has the same meaning as in § 217.2 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.2).
(ee)
Securities financing transaction
means any repurchase agreement, reverse repurchase agreement, securities borrowing transaction, or securities lending transaction.
(ff)
Short sale
means any sale of a security which the seller does not own or any sale which is consummated by the delivery of a security borrowed by, or for the account of, the seller.
(gg)
Sovereign entity
means a central national government (including the U.S. government) or an agency, department, ministry, or central bank, but not including any political subdivision such as a state, province, or municipality.
(hh)
Subsidiary.
A company is a
subsidiary
of another company if
(1) The company is consolidated by the other company under applicable accounting standards; or
(2) For a company that is not subject to principles or standards referenced in paragraph (ii)(1) of this definition, consolidation would have occurred if such principles or standards had applied.
(ii)
Tier 1 capital
means common equity tier 1 capital and additional tier 1 capital, as defined in subpart O of the Board's Regulation YY(12 CFR part 252, subpart O).
(jj)
Tier 2 capital
means tier 2 capital as defined in subpart O of the Board's Regulation YY (12 CFR part 252, subpart O).
(kk)
Total consolidated assets.
(1) A foreign banking organization's
total consolidated assets
are determined based on:
(i) The average of the foreign banking organization's total consolidated assets in the four most recent consecutive quarters as reported quarterly on the FR Y-7Q; or
(ii) If the foreign banking organization has not filed an FR Y-7Q for each of the four most recent consecutive quarters, the average of the foreign banking organization's total consolidated assets, as reported on the foreign banking organization's FR Y-7Q, for the most recent quarter or consecutive quarters, as applicable; or
(iii) If the foreign banking organization has not yet filed an FR Y-7Q, as determined under applicable accounting standards.
(2) A U.S. intermediate holding company's
total consolidated assets
are determined based on:
(i) The average of the U.S. intermediate holding company's total consolidated assets in the four most recent consecutive quarters as reported quarterly on the FR Y-9C; or
(ii) If the U.S. intermediate holding company has not filed an FR Y-9C for each of the four most recent consecutive quarters, the average of the U.S. intermediate holding company's total consolidated assets, as reported on the company's FR Y-9C, for the most recent quarter or consecutive quarters, as applicable; or
(iii) If the U.S. intermediate holding company has not yet filed an FR Y-9C, as determined under applicable accounting standards.
[83 FR 38501, Aug. 6, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 59120, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.172
Credit exposure limits.
(a)
Transition limit on aggregate credit exposure for certain covered foreign entities.
(1) A U.S. intermediate holding company that is a covered foreign entity and that has less than $250 billion in total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2019 is not required to comply with paragraph (b)(1) of this section until January 1, 2021.
(2) Until January 1, 2021, no U.S. intermediate holding company that is a covered foreign entity and that has less than $250 billion in total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2019 may have an aggregate net credit exposure that exceeds 25 percent of the consolidated capital stock and surplus of the U.S. intermediate holding company.
(b)
Limit on aggregate net credit exposure for covered foreign entities.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, no U.S. intermediate holding company that is a covered foreign
entity may have an aggregate net credit exposure to any counterparty that exceeds 25 percent of the tier 1 capital of the U.S. intermediate holding company.
(2) No foreign banking organization that is a covered foreign entity may permit its combined U.S. operations to have aggregate net credit exposure to any counterparty that exceeds 25 percent of the tier 1 capital of the foreign banking organization.
(c) Limit on aggregate net credit exposure of major foreign banking organizations to major counterparties.
(1) [Reserved]
(2) No major foreign banking organization may permit its combined U.S. operations to have aggregate net credit exposure to any major counterparty that exceeds 15 percent of the tier 1 capital of the major foreign banking organization.
(3) For purposes of this subpart, a top-tier foreign banking organization will be a major counterparty if it meets one of the following conditions:
(i) The top-tier foreign banking organization determines, pursuant to 12 CFR 252.153(b)(6), that the top-tier foreign banking organization has the characteristics of a global systemically important banking organization under the global methodology; or
(ii) The Board, using information available to the Board, determines:
(A) That the top-tier foreign banking organization would be a global systemically important banking organization under the global methodology;
(B) That the top-tier foreign banking organization, if it were subject to the Board's Regulation Q, would be identified as a global systemically important BHC under 12 CFR 217.402 of the Board's Regulation Q; or
(C) That the U.S. intermediate holding company, if it were subject to 12 CFR 217.402 of the Board's Regulation Q, would be identified as a global systemically important BHC.
(4) Each top-tier foreign banking organization that controls a U.S. intermediate holding company must submit to the Board by January 1 of each calendar year through the U.S. intermediate holding company:
(A) Notice of whether the home country supervisor (or other appropriate home country regulatory authority) of the top-tier foreign banking organization of the U.S. intermediate holding company has adopted standards consistent with the global methodology; and
(B) Notice of whether the top-tier foreign banking organization prepares or reports the indicators used by the global methodology to identify a banking organization as a global systemically important banking organization and, if it does, whether the top-tier foreign banking organization has determined that it has the characteristics of a global systemically important banking organization under the global methodology pursuant to 12 CFR 252.153(b)(6).
(5) A top-tier foreign banking organization that controls a U.S. intermediate holding company and prepares or reports for any purpose the indicator amounts necessary to determine whether the top-tier foreign banking organization is a global systemically important banking organization under the global methodology must use the data to determine whether the top-tier foreign banking organization has the characteristics of a global systemically important banking organization under the global methodology.
(d)
Foreign banking organizations subject on a consolidated basis to a large exposures or single-counterparty credit limit regime by its home-country supervisor.
(1) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, a foreign banking organization that is a covered foreign entity is not required to comply with the requirements of this subpart with respect to limits on the aggregate net credit exposure of its combined U.S. operations if the foreign banking organization certifies to the Board that it meets large exposure standards on a consolidated basis established by its home-country supervisor that are consistent with the large exposures framework published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel Large Exposures Framework), unless the Board determines in writing, after notice to the foreign banking organization, that compliance with this subpart is required.
(i) For purposes of this paragraph, home-country large exposure standards
that are consistent with the Basel Large Exposures Framework include single-counterparty credit limits and any restrictions set forth in “Supervisory framework for measuring and controlling large exposures” (2014) (Basel LE Standard), as implemented in accordance with the Basel LE Standard.
(ii) [Reserved]
(2) A foreign banking organization that is a covered foreign entity must provide to the Board reports relating to its compliance with the large exposure standards described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section concurrently with filing the FR Y-7Q or any successor report.
[83 FR 38501, Aug. 6, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 59120, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.173
Gross credit exposure.
(a)
Calculation of gross credit exposure.
The amount of gross credit exposure of a covered foreign entity to a counterparty with respect to a credit transaction is, in the case of:
(1) A deposit of the covered foreign entity held by the counterparty, loan by a covered foreign entity to the counterparty, and lease in which the covered foreign entity is the lessor and the counterparty is the lessee, equal to the amount owed by the counterparty to the covered foreign entity under the transaction.
(2) A debt security or debt investment held by the covered foreign entity that is issued by the counterparty, equal to:
(i) The market value of the securities, for trading and available-for-sale securities; and
(ii) The amortized purchase price of the securities or investments, for securities or investments held to maturity.
(3) An equity security held by the covered foreign entity that is issued by the counterparty, equity investment in a counterparty, and other direct investments in a counterparty, equal to the market value.
(4) A securities financing transaction must be valued using any of the methods that the covered foreign entity is authorized to use under the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR part 217, subparts D and E) to value such transactions:
(i)(A) As calculated for each transaction, in the case of a securities financing transaction between the covered foreign entity and the counterparty that is not subject to a bilateral netting agreement or does not meet the definition of “repo-style transaction” in § 217.2 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.2); or
(B) As calculated for a netting set, in the case of a securities financing transaction between the covered foreign entity and the counterparty that is subject to a bilateral netting agreement with that counterparty and meets the definition of “repo-style transaction” in § 217.2 of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.2);
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section, the covered foreign entity must:
(A) Assign a value of zero to any security received from the counterparty that does not meet the definition of “eligible collateral” in § 252.171(
l
); and
(B) Include the value of securities that are eligible collateral received by the covered foreign entity from the counterparty (including any exempt counterparty), calculated in accordance with paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section, when calculating its gross credit exposure to the issuer of those securities;
(iii) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section and with respect to each credit transaction, a covered foreign entity's gross credit exposure to a collateral issuer under this paragraph (a)(4) is limited to the covered foreign entity's gross credit exposure to the counterparty on the credit transaction;
(iv) In cases where the covered foreign entity receives eligible collateral from a counterparty in addition to the cash or securities received from that counterparty, the counterparty may reduce its gross credit exposure to that counterparty in accordance with § 252.174(b).
(5) A committed credit line extended by a covered foreign entity to a counterparty, equal to the face amount of the committed credit line.
(6) A guarantee or letter of credit issued by a covered foreign entity on behalf of a counterparty, equal to the
maximum potential loss to the covered foreign entity on the transaction.
(7) A derivative transaction must be valued using any of the methods that the covered foreign entity is authorized to use under the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR part 217, subparts D and E) to value such transactions:
(i)(A) As calculated for each transaction, in the case of a derivative transaction between the covered foreign entity and the counterparty, including an equity derivative but excluding a credit derivative described in paragraph (a)(8) of this section, that is not subject to a qualifying master netting agreement; or
(B) As calculated for a netting set, in the case of a derivative transaction between the covered foreign entity and the counterparty, including an equity derivative but excluding a credit derivative described in paragraph (a)(8) of this section, that is subject to a qualifying master netting agreement.
(ii) In cases where a covered foreign entity is required to recognize an exposure to an eligible guarantor pursuant to § 252.174(d), the covered foreign entity must exclude the relevant derivative transaction when calculating its gross exposure to the original counterparty under this section.
(8) A credit derivative between the covered foreign entity and a third party where the covered foreign entity is the protection provider and the reference asset is an obligation or debt security of the counterparty, equal to the maximum potential loss to the covered foreign entity on the transaction.
(b)
Investments in and exposures to securitization vehicles, investment funds, and other special purpose vehicles that are not affiliates.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section.
(1) A U.S. intermediate holding company that is a covered foreign entity and that has less than $250 billion in total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2019 is not required to comply with paragraph (b)(3) of this section until January 1, 2021.
(2) Until January 1, 2021, unless the Board applies the requirements of § 252.175 to the transaction pursuant to § 252.175(d), a U.S. intermediate holding company that is a covered foreign entity and that has less than $250 billion in total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2019 must:
(i) Calculate pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section its gross credit exposure due to any investment in the debt or equity of, and any credit derivative or equity derivative between the covered foreign entity and a third party where the covered foreign entity is in the protection provider and the reference asset is an obligation or equity security of, or equity investment in, a securitization vehicle, investment fund, and other special purpose vehicle that is not an affiliate of the covered foreign entity; and
(ii) Attribute that gross credit exposure to the securitization vehicle, investment fund, or other special purpose vehicle for purposes of this subpart.
(3) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a covered foreign entity must calculate pursuant to § 252.175 its gross credit exposure due to any investment in the debt or equity of, and any credit derivative or equity derivative between the covered foreign entity and a third party where the covered foreign entity is the protection provider and the reference asset is an obligation or equity security of, or equity investment in, a securitization vehicle, investment fund, and other special purpose vehicle that is not an affiliate of the covered foreign entity.
(c)
Attribution rule.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a covered foreign entity must treat any transaction with any natural person or entity as a credit transaction with another party, to the extent that the proceeds of the transaction are used for the benefit of, or transferred to, the other party.
[83 FR 38501, Aug. 6, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 59120, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.174
Net credit exposure.
(a)
In general.
For purposes of this subpart, a covered foreign entity must calculate its net credit exposure to a counterparty by adjusting its gross credit exposure to that counterparty in accordance with the rules set forth in this section.
(b)
Eligible collateral.
(1) In computing its net credit exposure to a
counterparty for any credit transaction other than a securities financing transaction, a covered foreign entity must reduce its gross credit exposure on the transaction by the adjusted market value of any eligible collateral.
(2) A covered foreign entity that reduces its gross credit exposure to a counterparty as required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section must include the adjusted market value of the eligible collateral when calculating its gross credit exposure to the collateral issuer.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a covered foreign entity's gross credit exposure to a collateral issuer under this paragraph (b) is limited to:
(i) Its gross credit exposure to the counterparty on the credit transaction, or
(ii) In the case of an exempt counterparty, the gross credit exposure that would have been attributable to that exempt counterparty on the credit transaction if valued in accordance with § 252.173(a).
(c)
Eligible guarantees.
(1) In calculating net credit exposure to a counterparty for any credit transaction, a covered foreign entity must reduce its gross credit exposure to the counterparty by the amount of any eligible guarantee from an eligible guarantor that covers the transaction.
(2) A covered foreign entity that reduces its gross credit exposure to a counterparty as required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section must include the amount of eligible guarantees when calculating its gross credit exposure to the eligible guarantor.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a covered foreign entity's gross credit exposure to an eligible guarantor with respect to an eligible guarantee under this paragraph (c) is limited to:
(i) Its gross credit exposure to the counterparty on the credit transaction prior to recognition of the eligible guarantee, or
(ii) In the case of an exempt counterparty, the gross credit exposure that would have been attributable to that exempt counterparty on the credit transaction prior to recognition of the eligible guarantee if valued in accordance with § 252.173(a).
(d)
Eligible credit and equity derivatives.
(1) In calculating net credit exposure to a counterparty for a credit transaction under this section, a covered foreign entity must reduce its gross credit exposure to the counterparty by:
(i) In the case of any eligible credit derivative from an eligible guarantor, the notional amount of the eligible credit derivative; or
(ii) In the case of any eligible equity derivative from an eligible guarantor, the gross credit exposure amount to the counterparty (calculated in accordance with § 252.173(a)(7)).
(2)(i) A covered foreign entity that reduces its gross credit exposure to a counterparty as provided under paragraph (d)(1) of this section must include, when calculating its net credit exposure to the eligible guarantor, including in instances where the underlying credit transaction would not be subject to the credit limits of § 252.172 (for example, due to an exempt counterparty), either
(A) In the case of any eligible credit derivative from an eligible guarantor, the notional amount of the eligible credit derivative; or
(B) In the case of any eligible equity derivative from an eligible guarantor, the gross credit exposure amount to the counterparty (calculated in accordance with § 252.173(a)(7)).
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, in cases where the eligible credit derivative or eligible equity derivative is used to hedge covered positions that are subject to the Board's market risk rule (12 CFR part 217, subpart F) and the counterparty on the hedged transaction is not a financial entity, the amount of credit exposure that a entity must recognize to the eligible guarantor is the amount that would be calculated pursuant to § 252.173(a).
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(2) of this section, a covered foreign entity's gross credit exposure to an eligible guarantor with respect to an eligible credit derivative or an eligible equity derivative under this paragraph (d) is limited to:
(i) Its gross credit exposure to the counterparty on the credit transaction prior to recognition of the eligible credit derivative or the eligible equity derivative, or
(ii) In the case of an exempt counterparty, the gross credit exposure that would have been attributable to that exempt counterparty on the credit transaction prior to recognition of the eligible credit derivative or the eligible equity derivative if valued in accordance with § 252.173(a).
(e)
Other eligible hedges.
In calculating net credit exposure to a counterparty for a credit transaction under this section, a covered foreign entity may reduce its gross credit exposure to the counterparty by the face amount of a short sale of the counterparty's debt security or equity security, provided that:
(1) The instrument in which the covered foreign entity has a short position is junior to, or
pari passu
with, the instrument in which the covered foreign entity has the long position; and
(2) The instrument in which the covered foreign entity has a short position and the instrument in which the covered foreign entity has the long position are either both treated as trading or available-for-sale exposures or both treated as held-to-maturity exposures.
(f)
Unused portion of certain extensions of credit.
(1) In computing its net credit exposure to a counterparty for a committed credit line or revolving credit facility under this section, a covered foreign entity may reduce its gross credit exposure by the amount of the unused portion of the credit extension to the extent that the covered foreign entity does not have any legal obligation to advance additional funds under the extension of credit and the used portion of the credit extension has been fully secured by eligible collateral.
(2) To the extent that the used portion of a credit extension has been secured by eligible collateral, the covered foreign entity may reduce its gross credit exposure by the adjusted market value of any eligible collateral received from the counterparty, even if the used portion has not been fully secured by eligible collateral.
(3) To qualify for the reduction in net credit exposure under this paragraph, the credit contract must specify that any used portion of the credit extension must be fully secured by the adjusted market value of any eligible collateral.
(g)
Credit transactions involving exempt counterparties.
(1) A covered foreign entity's credit transactions with an exempt counterparty are not subject to the requirements of this subpart, including but not limited to § 252.172.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (g)(1) of this section, in cases where a covered foreign entity has a credit transaction with an exempt counterparty and the covered foreign entity has obtained eligible collateral from that exempt counterparty or an eligible guarantee or eligible credit or equity derivative from an eligible guarantor, the covered foreign entity must include (for purposes of this subpart) such exposure to the issuer of such eligible collateral or the eligible guarantor, as calculated in accordance with the rules set forth in this section, when calculating its gross credit exposure to that issuer of eligible collateral or eligible guarantor.
(h)
Currency mismatch adjustments.
For purposes of calculating its net credit exposure to a counterparty under this section, a covered foreign entity must apply, as applicable:
(1) When reducing its gross credit exposure to a counterparty resulting from any credit transaction due to any eligible collateral and calculating its gross credit exposure to an issuer of eligible collateral, pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the currency mismatch adjustment approach of § 217.37(c)(3)(ii) of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.37(c)(3)(ii)); and
(2) When reducing its gross credit exposure to a counterparty resulting from any credit transaction due to any eligible guarantee, eligible equity derivative, or eligible credit derivative from an eligible guarantor and calculating its gross credit exposure to an eligible guarantor, pursuant to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the currency mismatch adjustment approach of § 217.36(f) of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.36(f)).
(i)
Maturity mismatch adjustments.
For purposes of calculating its net credit exposure to a counterparty under this section, a covered foreign entity must apply, as applicable, the maturity mismatch adjustment approach of § 217.36(d) of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.36(d)):
(1) When reducing its gross credit exposure to a counterparty resulting from any credit transaction due to any eligible collateral or any eligible guarantees, eligible equity derivatives, or eligible credit derivatives from an eligible guarantor, pursuant to paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, and
(2) In calculating its gross credit exposure to an issuer of eligible collateral, pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, or to an eligible guarantor, pursuant to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section; provided that
(3) The eligible collateral, eligible guarantee, eligible equity derivative, or eligible credit derivative subject to paragraph (i)(1) of this section:
(i) Has a shorter maturity than the credit transaction;
(ii) Has an original maturity equal to or greater than one year;
(iii) Has a residual maturity of not less than three months; and
(iv) The adjustment approach is otherwise applicable.
[83 FR 38501, Aug. 6, 2018, as amended at 83 FR 64023, Dec. 13, 2018]
§ 252.175
Investments in and exposures to securitization vehicles, investment funds, and other special purpose vehicles that are not affiliates of the covered foreign entity.
(a)
In general.
(1) This section applies to a covered foreign entity, except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.
(i) Until January 1, 2021, this section does not apply to a U.S. intermediate holding company that is a covered foreign entity with less than $250 billion in total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2019, provided that:
(A) In order to avoid evasion of this subpart, the Board may determine, after notice to the covered foreign entity and opportunity for hearing, that a U.S. intermediate holding company with less than $250 billion in total consolidated assets must apply either the approach in this paragraph (a) or the look-through approach in paragraph (b) of this section, or must recognize exposures to a third party that has a contractual obligation to provide credit or liquidity support to a securitization vehicle, investment fund, or other special purpose vehicle that is not an affiliate of the covered foreign entity, as provided in paragraph (c) of this section; and
(B) For purposes of paragraph (a)(1)(i)(A) of this section, the Board, in its discretion and as applicable, may allow a covered foreign entity to measure its capital base using the covered foreign entity's capital stock and surplus rather than its tier 1 capital.
(ii) [Reserved]
(2) For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(i)
SPV
means a securitization vehicle, investment fund, or other special purpose vehicle that is not an affiliate of the covered foreign entity.
(ii)
SPV exposure
means an investment in the debt or equity of an SPV or a credit derivative or equity derivative between the covered foreign entity and a third party where the covered foreign entity is the protection provider and the reference asset is an obligation or equity security of, or equity investment in, an SPV.
(3)(i) A covered foreign entity must determine whether the amount of its gross credit exposure to an issuer of assets in an SPV, due to an SPV exposure, is equal to or greater than 0.25 percent of the covered foreign entity's tier 1 capital using one of the following two methods:
(A) The sum of all of the issuer's assets (with each asset valued in accordance with § 252.173(a)) in the SPV; or
(B) The application of the look-through approach described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(ii) With respect to the determination required under paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, a covered foreign entity must use the same method to calculate gross credit exposure to each issuer of assets in a particular SPV.
(iii) In making a determination under paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, the covered foreign entity must consider only the credit exposure to
the issuer arising from the covered foreign entity's SPV exposure.
(iv) For purposes of this paragraph (a)(3), a covered foreign entity that is unable to identify each issuer of assets in an SPV must attribute to a single unknown counterparty the amount of its gross credit exposure to all unidentified issuers and calculate such gross credit exposure using one method in either paragraph (a)(3)(i)(A) or (B) of this section.
(4)(i) If a covered foreign entity determines pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section that the amount of its gross credit exposure to an issuer of assets in an SPV is less than 0.25 percent of the covered foreign entity's tier 1 capital, the amount of the covered foreign entity's gross credit exposure to that issuer may be attributed to either that issuer of assets or the SPV:
(A) If attributed to the issuer of assets, the issuer of assets must be identified as a counterparty, and the gross credit exposure calculated under paragraph (a)(3)(i)(A) of this section to that issuer of assets must be aggregated with any other gross credit exposures (valued in accordance with § 252.173) to that same counterparty; and
(B) If attributed to the SPV, the covered foreign entity's gross credit exposure is equal to the covered foreign entity's SPV exposure, valued in accordance with § 252.173(a).
(ii) If a covered foreign entity determines pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section that the amount of its gross credit exposure to an issuer of assets in an SPV is equal to or greater than 0.25 percent of the covered foreign entity's tier 1 capital or the covered foreign entity is unable to determine that the amount of the gross credit exposure is less than 0.25 percent of the covered foreign entity's tier 1 capital:
(A) The covered foreign entity must calculate the amount of its gross credit exposure to the issuer of assets in the SPV using the look-through approach in paragraph (b) of this section;
(B) The issuer of assets in the SPV must be identified as a counterparty, and the gross credit exposure calculated in accordance with paragraph (b) must be aggregated with any other gross credit exposures (valued in accordance with § 252.173) to that same counterparty; and
(C) When applying the look-through approach in paragraph (b) of this section, a covered foreign entity that is unable to identify each issuer of assets in an SPV must attribute to a single unknown counterparty the amount of its gross credit exposure, calculated in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, to all unidentified issuers.
(iii) For purposes of this section, a covered foreign entity must aggregate all gross credit exposures to unknown counterparties for all SPVs as if the exposures related to a single unknown counterparty; this single unknown counterparty is subject to the limits of § 252.172 as if it were a single counterparty.
(b)
Look-through approach.
A covered foreign entity that is required to calculate the amount of its gross credit exposure with respect to an issuer of assets in accordance with this paragraph (b) must calculate the amount as follows:
(1) Where all investors in the SPV rank
pari passu,
the amount of the gross credit exposure to the issuer of assets is equal to the covered foreign entity's pro rata share of the SPV multiplied by the value of the underlying asset in the SPV, valued in accordance with § 252.173(a); and
(2) Where all investors in the SPV do not rank
pari passu,
the amount of the gross credit exposure to the issuer of assets is equal to:
(i) The pro rata share of the covered foreign entity's investment in the tranche of the SPV; multiplied by
(ii) The lesser of:
(A) The market value of the tranche in which the covered foreign entity has invested, except in the case of a debt security that is held to maturity, in which case the tranche must be valued at the amortized purchase price of the securities; and
(B) The value of each underlying asset attributed to the issuer in the SPV, each as calculated pursuant to § 252.173(a).
(c)
Exposures to third parties.
(1) Notwithstanding any other requirement in this section, a covered foreign entity must recognize, for purposes of this subpart, a gross credit exposure to each
third party that has a contractual obligation to provide credit or liquidity support to an SPV whose failure or material financial distress would cause a loss in the value of the covered foreign entity's SPV exposure.
(2) The amount of any gross credit exposure that is required to be recognized to a third party under paragraph (c)(1) of this section is equal to the covered foreign entity's SPV exposure, up to the maximum contractual obligation of that third party to the SPV, valued in accordance with § 252.173(a). (This gross credit exposure is in addition to the covered foreign entity's gross credit exposure to the SPV or the issuers of assets of the SPV, calculated in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.)
(3) A covered foreign entity must aggregate the gross credit exposure to a third party recognized in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section with its other gross credit exposures to that third party (that are unrelated to the SPV) for purposes of compliance with the limits of § 252.172.
[83 FR 38501, Aug. 6, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 59121, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.176
Aggregation of exposures to more than one counterparty due to economic interdependence or control relationships.
(a)
In general.
(1) This section applies to a covered foreign entity except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.
(i) Until January 1, 2021, paragraphs (a)(2) through (d) of this section do not apply to a U.S. intermediate holding company that is a covered foreign entity with less than $250 billion in total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2019.
(ii) [Reserved]
(2)(i) If a covered foreign entity has an aggregate net credit exposure to any counterparty that exceeds 5 percent of its tier 1 capital, the covered foreign entity must assess its relationship with the counterparty under paragraph (b)(2) of this section to determine whether the counterparty is economically interdependent with one or more other counterparties of the covered foreign entity and under paragraph (c)(1) of this section to determine whether the counterparty is connected by a control relationship with one or more other counterparties.
(ii) If, pursuant to an assessment required under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, the covered foreign entity determines that one or more of the factors of paragraph (b)(2) or (c)(1) of this section are met with respect to one or more counterparties, or the Board determines pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section that one or more other counterparties of a covered foreign entity are economically interdependent or that one or more other counterparties of a covered foreign entity are connected by a control relationship, the covered foreign entity must aggregate its net credit exposure to the counterparties for all purposes under this subpart, including, but not limited to, § 252.172.
(iii) In connection with any request pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) or (c)(2) of this section, the Board may require the covered foreign entity to provide additional information.
(b)
Aggregation of exposures to more than one counterparty due to economic interdependence.
(1) For purposes of this paragraph, two counterparties are economically interdependent if the failure, default, insolvency, or material financial distress of one counterparty would cause the failure, default, insolvency, or material financial distress of the other counterparty, taking into account the factors in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2) A covered foreign entity must assess whether the financial distress of one counterparty (counterparty A) would prevent the ability of the other counterparty (counterparty B) to fully and timely repay counterparty B's liabilities and whether the insolvency or default of counterparty A is likely to be associated with the insolvency or default of counterparty B and, therefore, these counterparties are economically interdependent, by evaluating the following:
(i) Whether 50 percent or more of one counterparty's gross revenue is derived from, or gross expenditures are directed to, transactions with the other counterparty;
(ii) Whether counterparty A has fully or partly guaranteed the credit exposure of counterparty B, or is liable by other means, in an amount that is 50 percent or more of the covered foreign entity's net credit exposure to counterparty A;
(iii) Whether 25 percent or more of one counterparty's production or output is sold to the other counterparty, which cannot easily be replaced by other customers;
(iv) Whether the expected source of funds to repay the loans of both counterparties is the same and neither counterparty has another independent source of income from which the loans may be serviced and fully repaid;
1
and
1
An employer will not be treated as a source of repayment under this paragraph because of wages and salaries paid to an employee.
(v) Whether two or more counterparties rely on the same source for the majority of their funding and, in the event of the common provider's default, an alternative provider cannot be found.
(3)(i) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(2) of this section, if a covered foreign entity determines that one or more of the factors in paragraph (b)(2) is met, the covered foreign entity may request in writing a determination from the Board that those counterparties are not economically interdependent and that the covered foreign entity is not required to aggregate those counterparties.
(ii) Upon a request by a covered foreign entity pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the Board may grant temporary relief to the covered foreign entity and not require the covered foreign entity to aggregate one counterparty with another counterparty provided that the counterparty could promptly modify its business relationships, such as by reducing its reliance on the other counterparty, to address any economic interdependence concerns, and provided that such relief is in the public interest and is consistent with the purpose of this subpart and 12 U.S.C. 5365(e).
(c)
Aggregation of exposures to more than one counterparty due to certain control relationships.
(1) For purposes of this subpart, one counterparty (counterparty A) is deemed to control the other counterparty (counterparty B) if:
(i) Counterparty A owns, controls, or holds with the power to vote 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities of counterparty B; or
(ii) Counterparty A controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors, trustees, or general partners (or individuals exercising similar functions) of counterparty B.
(2)(i) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, if a covered foreign entity determines that one or more of the factors in paragraph (c)(1) is met, the covered foreign entity may request in writing a determination from the Board that counterparty A does not control counterparty B and that the covered foreign entity is not required to aggregate those counterparties.
(ii) Upon a request by a covered foreign entity pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the Board may grant temporary relief to the covered foreign entity and not require the covered foreign entity to aggregate counterparty A with counterparty B provided that, taking into account the specific facts and circumstances, such indicia of control does not result in the entities being connected by control relationships for purposes of this subpart, and provided that such relief is in the public interest and is consistent with the purpose of this subpart and 12 U.S.C. 5365(e).
(d)
Board determinations for aggregation of counterparties due to economic interdependence or control relationships.
The Board may determine, after notice to the covered foreign entity and opportunity for hearing, that one or more counterparties of a covered foreign entity are:
(1) Economically interdependent for purposes of this subpart, considering the factors in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, as well as any other indicia of economic interdependence that the Board determines in its discretion to be relevant; or
(2) Connected by control relationships for purpose of this subpart, considering the factors in paragraph (c)(1)
of this section and whether counterparty A:
(i) Controls the power to vote 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities of Counterparty B pursuant to a voting agreement;
(ii) Has significant influence on the appointment or dismissal of counterparty B's administrative, management, or governing body, or the fact that a majority of members of such body have been appointed solely as a result of the exercise of counterparty A's voting rights; or
(iii) Has the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of counterparty B.
(e)
Board determinations for aggregation of counterparties to prevent evasion.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a covered foreign entity must aggregate its exposures to a counterparty with the covered foreign entity's exposures to another counterparty if the Board determines in writing after notice and opportunity for hearing, that the exposures to the two counterparties must be aggregated to prevent evasions of the purposes of this subpart, including, but not limited to § 252.176 and 12 U.S.C. 5365(e).
[83 FR 38501, Aug. 6, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 59121, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.177
Exemptions.
(a)
Exempted exposure categories.
The following categories of credit transactions are exempt from the limits on credit exposure under this subpart:
(1) Any direct claim on, and the portion of a claim that is directly and fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, only while operating under the conservatorship or receivership of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, and any additional obligation issued by a U.S. government-sponsored entity as determined by the Board;
(2) Intraday credit exposure to a counterparty;
(3) Any trade exposure to a qualifying central counterparty related to the covered foreign entity's clearing activity, including potential future exposure arising from transactions cleared by the qualifying central counterparty and pre-funded default fund contributions;
(4) Any credit transaction with the Bank for International Settlements, the International Monetary Fund, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Finance Corporation, the International Development Association, the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency, or the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes;
(5) Any credit transaction with the European Commission or the European Central Bank; and
(6) Any transaction that the Board exempts if the Board finds that such exemption is in the public interest and is consistent with the purpose of this subpart.
(b)
Additional exemptions by the Board.
The Board may, by regulation or order, exempt transactions, in whole or in part, from the definition of the term “credit exposure,” if the Board finds that the exemption is in the public interest and is consistent with the purpose of 12 U.S.C. 5365(e).
§ 252.178
Compliance.
(a)
Scope of compliance.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, using all available data, including any data required to be maintained or reported to the Federal Reserve under this subpart, a covered foreign entity must comply with the requirements of this subpart on a daily basis at the end of each business day.
(2) Until December 31, 2020, using all available data, including any data required to be maintained or reported to the Federal Reserve under this subpart, a U.S. intermediate holding company that is a covered foreign entity with less than $250 billion in total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2019 must comply with the requirements of this subpart on a quarterly basis, unless the Board determines and notifies the entity in writing that more frequent compliance is required.
(3) A covered foreign entity must report its compliance to the Federal Reserve as of the end of the quarter, unless the Board determines and notifies that entity in writing that more frequent reporting is required.
(4) In reporting its compliance, a covered foreign entity must calculate and include in its gross credit exposure to an issuer of eligible collateral or eligible guarantor the amounts of eligible collateral, eligible guarantees, eligible equity derivatives, and eligible credit derivatives that were provided to the covered foreign entity in connection with credit transactions with exempt counterparties, valued in accordance with and as required by § 252.174(b) through (d) and (g).
(b)
Qualifying Master Netting Agreement.
With respect to any qualifying master netting agreement, a covered foreign entity must establish and maintain procedures that meet or exceed the requirements of § 217.3(d) of the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.3(d)) to monitor possible changes in relevant law and to ensure that the agreement continues to satisfy these requirements.
(c)
Noncompliance.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, if a covered foreign entity is not in compliance with this subpart with respect to a counterparty solely due to the circumstances listed in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (v) of this section, the covered foreign entity will not be subject to enforcement actions for a period of 90 days (or, with prior notice to the foreign entity, such shorter or longer period determined by the Board, in its sole discretion, to be appropriate to preserve the safety and soundness of the covered foreign entity or U.S. financial stability), if the covered foreign entity uses reasonable efforts to return to compliance with this subpart during this period. The covered foreign entity may not engage in any additional credit transactions with such a counterparty in contravention of this rule during the period of noncompliance, except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(2) A covered foreign entity may request a special temporary credit exposure limit exemption from the Board. The Board may grant approval for such exemption in cases where the Board determines that such credit transactions are necessary or appropriate to preserve the safety and soundness of the covered foreign entity or U.S. financial stability. In acting on a request for an exemption, the Board will consider the following:
(i) A decrease in the covered foreign entity's capital stock and surplus or tier 1 capital, as applicable;
(ii) The merger of the covered foreign entity with another covered foreign entity;
(iii) A merger of two counterparties; or
(iv) An unforeseen and abrupt change in the status of a counterparty as a result of which the covered foreign entity's credit exposure to the counterparty becomes limited by the requirements of this section; or
(v) Any other factor(s) the Board determines, in its discretion, is appropriate.
(d)
Other measures.
The Board may impose supervisory oversight and additional reporting measures that it determines are appropriate to monitor compliance with this subpart. Covered foreign entities must furnish, in the manner and form prescribed by the Board, such information to monitor compliance with this subpart and the limits therein as the Board may require.
[83 FR 38501, Aug. 6, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 59121, Nov. 1, 2019]
Subparts R-T [Reserved]

# Subpart U—Debt-to-Equity Limits for U.S. Bank Holding Companies and Foreign Banking Organizations

# Source:
Reg. YY, 79 FR 17337, Mar. 27, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 252.220
Debt-to-equity limits for U.S. bank holding companies.
(a)
Definitions
—(1)
Debt-to-equity ratio
means the ratio of a company's total liabilities to a company's total equity capital less goodwill.
(2)
Debt
and
equity
have the same meaning as “total liabilities” and “total equity capital,” respectively, as reported by a bank holding company on the FR Y-9C.
(b)
Notice and maximum debt-to-equity ratio requirement.
The Council, or the Board on behalf of the Council, will
provide written notice to a bank holding company to the extent that the Council makes a determination, pursuant to section 165(j) of the Dodd-Frank Act, that a bank holding company poses a grave threat to the financial stability of the United States and that the imposition of a debt-to-equity requirement is necessary to mitigate such risk. Beginning no later than 180 days after receiving written notice from the Council or from the Board on behalf of the Council, the bank holding company must achieve and maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of no more than 15-to-1.
(c)
Extension.
The Board may, upon request by the bank holding company for which the Council has made a determination pursuant to section 165(j) of the Dodd-Frank Act, extend the time period for compliance established under paragraph (b) of this section for up to two additional periods of 90 days each, if the Board determines that the identified company has made good faith efforts to comply with the debt-to-equity ratio requirement and that each extension would be in the public interest. Requests for an extension must be received in writing by the Board not less than 30 days prior to the expiration of the existing time period for compliance and must provide information sufficient to demonstrate that the bank holding company has made good faith efforts to comply with the debt-to-equity ratio requirement and that each extension would be in the public interest.
(d)
Termination.
The debt-to-equity ratio requirement in paragraph (b) of this section shall cease to apply to a bank holding company as of the date it receives notice from the Council of a determination that the bank holding company no longer poses a grave threat to the financial stability of the United States and that the imposition of a debt-to-equity requirement is no longer necessary.
§ 252.221
Debt-to-equity limits for foreign banking organizations.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Debt
and
equity
have the same meaning as “total liabilities” and “total equity capital,” respectively, as reported by a U.S. intermediate holding company or U.S. subsidiary on the FR Y-9C, or other reporting form prescribed by the Board.
(2)
Debt-to-equity ratio
means the ratio of total liabilities to total equity capital less goodwill.
(3)
Eligible assets
and
liabilities of all U.S. branches and agencies of a foreign bank
have the same meaning as in § 252.158(a).
(b)
Notice and maximum debt-to-equity ratio requirement.
Beginning no later than 180 days after receiving written notice from the Council or from the Board on behalf of the Council that the Council has made a determination, pursuant to section 165(j) of the Dodd-Frank Act, that the foreign banking organization poses a grave threat to the financial stability of the United States and that the imposition of a debt-to-equity requirement is necessary to mitigate such risk:
(1) The U.S. intermediate holding company, or if the foreign banking organization has not established a U.S. intermediate holding company, and any U.S. subsidiary (excluding any section 2(h)(2) company or DPC branch subsidiary, if applicable), must achieve and maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of no more than 15-to-1; and
(2) The U.S. branches and agencies of the foreign banking organization must maintain eligible assets in its U.S. branches and agencies that, on a daily basis, are not less than 108 percent of the average value over each day of the previous calendar quarter of the total liabilities of all branches and agencies operated by the foreign banking organization in the United States.
(c)
Extension.
The Board may, upon request by a foreign banking organization for which the Council has made a determination pursuant to section 165(j) of the Dodd-Frank Act, extend the time period for compliance established under paragraph (b) of this section for up to two additional periods of 90 days each, if the Board determines that such company has made good faith efforts to comply with the debt to equity ratio requirement and that each extension would be in the public interest. Requests for an extension must be received in writing by the Board not
less than 30 days prior to the expiration of the existing time period for compliance and must provide information sufficient to demonstrate that the foreign banking organization has made good faith efforts to comply with the debt-to-equity ratio requirement and that each extension would be in the public interest.
(d)
Termination.
The requirements in paragraph (b) of this section cease to apply to a foreign banking organization as of the date it receives notice from the Council of a determination that the company no longer poses a grave threat to the financial stability of the United States and that imposition of the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section are no longer necessary.
Pt. 252, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 252—Policy Statement on the Scenario Design Framework for Stress Testing

# 1. Background
(a) The Board has imposed stress testing requirements through its regulations (stress test rules) implementing section 165(i) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act or Act) and section 401(e) of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act, and through its capital plan rule (12 CFR 225.8). Under the stress test rules, the Board conducts a supervisory stress test of each bank holding company with total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more, intermediate holding company of a foreign banking organization with total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more, and nonbank financial company that the Financial Stability Oversight Council has designated for supervision by the Board (together, covered companies).
1
In addition, under the stress test rules, certain firms are also subject to company-run stress test requirements.
2
The Board will provide for at least two different sets of conditions (each set, a scenario), including baseline and severely adverse scenarios for both supervisory and company-run stress tests (macroeconomic scenarios).
3
1
12 U.S.C. 5365(i)(1); 12 CFR part 252, subpart E.
2
12 U.S.C. 5365(i)(2); 12 CFR part 252, subparts B and F.
3
The stress test rules define scenarios as those sets of conditions that affect the United States economy or the financial condition of a company that the Board determines are appropriate for use in stress tests, including, but not limited to, baseline and severely adverse scenarios. The stress test rules define baseline scenario as a set of conditions that affect the United States economy or the financial condition of a company and that reflect the consensus views of the economic and financial outlook. The stress test rules define severely adverse scenario as a set of conditions that affect the U.S. economy or the financial condition of a company and that overall are significantly more severe than those associated with the baseline scenario and may include trading or other additional components.
(b) The stress test rules provide that the Board will notify covered companies by no later than February 15 of each year of the scenarios it will use to conduct its supervisory stress tests and provide, also by no later than February 15, covered companies and other financial companies subject to the final rules the set of scenarios they must use to conduct their company-run stress tests. Under the stress test rules, the Board may require certain companies to use additional components in the severely adverse scenario or additional scenarios. For example, the Board expects to require large banking organizations with significant trading activities to include a trading and counterparty component (market shock, described in the following sections) in their severely adverse scenario. The Board will provide any additional components or scenario by no later than March 1 of each year.
4
The Board expects that the scenarios it will require the companies to use will be the same as those the Board will use to conduct its supervisory stress tests (together, stress test scenarios).
4
Id.
(c) In addition, § 225.8 of the Board's Regulation Y (capital plan rule) requires covered companies to submit annual capital plans, including stress test results, to the Board in order to allow the Board to assess whether they have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes and have sufficient capital to continue operations throughout times of economic and financial stress.
5
5
See
12 CFR 225.8.
(d) Stress tests required under the stress test rules and under the capital plan rule require the Board and financial companies to calculate pro-forma capital levels—rather than “current” or actual levels—over a specified planning horizon under baseline and stressful scenarios. This approach integrates key lessons of the 2007-2009 financial crisis into the Board's supervisory framework. During the financial crisis, investor and counterparty confidence in the capitalization of financial companies eroded rapidly in
the face of changes in the current and expected economic and financial conditions, and this loss in market confidence imperiled companies' ability to access funding, continue operations, serve as a credit intermediary, and meet obligations to creditors and counterparties. Importantly, such a loss in confidence occurred even when a financial institution's capital ratios were in excess of regulatory minimums. This is because the institution's capital ratios were perceived as lagging indicators of its financial condition, particularly when conditions were changing.
(e) The stress tests required under the stress test rules and capital plan rule are a valuable supervisory tool that provide a forward-looking assessment of large financial companies' capital adequacy under hypothetical economic and financial market conditions. Currently, these stress tests primarily focus on credit risk and market risk—that is, risk of mark-to-market losses associated with companies' trading and counterparty positions—and not on other types of risk, such as liquidity risk. Pressures stemming from these sources are considered in separate supervisory exercises. No single supervisory tool, including the stress tests, can provide an assessment of a company's ability to withstand every potential source of risk.
(f) Selecting appropriate scenarios is an especially significant consideration for stress tests required under the capital plan rule, which ties the review of a company's performance under stress scenarios to its ability to make capital distributions. More severe scenarios, all other things being equal, generally translate into larger projected declines in banks' capital. Thus, a company would need more capital today to meet its minimum capital requirements in more stressful scenarios and have the ability to continue making capital distributions, such as common dividend payments. This translation is far from mechanical, however; it will depend on factors that are specific to a given company, such as underwriting standards and the company's business model, which would also greatly affect projected revenue, losses, and capital.

# 2. Overview and Scope
(a) This policy statement provides more detail on the characteristics of the stress test scenarios and explains the considerations and procedures that underlie the approach for formulating these scenarios. The considerations and procedures described in this policy statement apply to the Board's stress testing framework, including to the stress tests required under 12 CFR part 252, subparts B, E, and F as well as the Board's capital plan rule (12 CFR 225.8).
6
6
12 CFR 252.14(a), 12 CFR 252.44(a), 12 CFR 252.54(a).
(b) Although the Board does not envision that the broad approach used to develop scenarios will change from year to year, the stress test scenarios will reflect changes in the outlook for economic and financial conditions and changes to specific risks or vulnerabilities that the Board, in consultation with the other federal banking agencies, determines should be considered in the annual stress tests. The stress test scenarios should not be regarded as forecasts; rather, they are hypothetical paths of economic variables that will be used to assess the strength and resilience of the companies' capital in various economic and financial environments.
(c) The remainder of this policy statement is organized as follows. Section 3 provides a broad description of the baseline and severely adverse scenarios and describes the types of variables that the Board expects to include in the macroeconomic scenarios and the market shock component of the stress test scenarios applicable to companies with significant trading activity. Section 4 describes the Board's approach for developing the macroeconomic scenarios, and section 5 describes the approach for the market shocks. Section 6 describes the relationship between the macroeconomic scenario and the market shock components. Section 7 provides a timeline for the formulation and publication of the macroeconomic assumptions and market shocks.

# 3. Content of the Stress Test Scenarios
(a) The Board will publish a minimum of two different scenarios, including baseline and severely adverse conditions, for use in stress tests required in the stress test rules.
7
In general, the Board anticipates that it will not issue additional scenarios. Specific circumstances or vulnerabilities that in any given year the Board determines require particular vigilance to ensure the resilience of the banking sector will be captured in the severely adverse scenario. A greater number of scenarios could be needed in some years—for example, because the Board identifies a large number of unrelated and uncorrelated but nonetheless significant risks.
7
12 CFR 252.14(b), 12 CFR 252.44(b), 12 CFR 252.54(b).
(b) While the Board generally expects to use the same scenarios for all companies subject to the final rule, it may require a subset of companies— depending on a company's financial condition, size, complexity, risk profile, scope of operations, or activities, or risks to the U.S. economy—to include additional scenario components or additional
scenarios that are designed to capture different effects of adverse events on revenue, losses, and capital. One example of such components is the market shock that applies only to companies with significant trading activity. Additional components or scenarios may also include other stress factors that may not necessarily be directly correlated to macroeconomic or financial assumptions but nevertheless can materially affect companies' risks, such as the unexpected default of a major counterparty.
(c) Early in each stress testing cycle, the Board plans to publish the macroeconomic scenarios along with a brief narrative summary that provides a description of the economic situation underlying the scenario and explains how the scenarios have changed relative to the previous year. In addition, to assist companies in projecting the paths of additional variables in a manner consistent with the scenario, the narrative will also provide descriptions of the general path of some additional variables. These descriptions will be general—that is, they will describe developments for broad classes of variables rather than for specific variables—and will specify the intensity and direction of variable changes but not numeric magnitudes. These descriptions should provide guidance that will be useful to companies in specifying the paths of the additional variables for their company-run stress tests. Note that in practice it will not be possible for the narrative to include descriptions on all of the additional variables that companies may need for their company-run stress tests. In cases where scenarios are designed to reflect particular risks and vulnerabilities, the narrative will also explain the underlying motivation for these features of the scenario. The Board also plans to release a broad description of the market shock components.

# 3.1 Macroeconomic Scenarios
(a) The macroeconomic scenarios will consist of the future paths of a set of economic and financial variables.
8
The economic and financial variables included in the scenarios will likely comprise those included in the “2014 Supervisory Scenarios for Annual Stress Tests Required under the Dodd-Frank Act Stress Testing Rules and the Capital Plan Rule” (2013 supervisory scenarios). The domestic U.S. variables provided for in the 2013 supervisory scenarios included:
8
The future path of a variable refers to its specification over a given time period. For example, the path of unemployment can be described in percentage terms on a quarterly basis over the stress testing time horizon.
(i) Six measures of economic activity and prices: Real and nominal gross domestic product (GDP) growth, the unemployment rate of the civilian non-institutional population aged 16 and over, real and nominal disposable personal income growth, and the Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation rate;
(ii) Four measures of developments in equity and property markets: The Core Logic National House Price Index, the National Council for Real Estate Investment Fiduciaries Commercial Real Estate Price Index, the Dow Jones Total Stock Market Index, and the Chicago Board Options Exchange Market Volatility Index; and
(iii) Six measures of interest rates: The rate on the 3-month Treasury bill, the yield on the 5-year Treasury bond, the yield on the 10-year Treasury bond, the yield on a 10-year BBB corporate security, the prime rate, and the interest rate associated with a conforming, conventional, fixed-rate, 30-year mortgage.
(b) The international variables provided for in the 2014 supervisory scenarios included, for the euro area, the United Kingdom, developing Asia, and Japan:
(i) Percent change in real GDP;
(ii) Percent change in the Consumer Price Index or local equivalent; and
(iii) The U.S./foreign currency exchange rate.
9
9
The Board may increase the range of countries or regions included in future scenarios, as appropriate.
(c) The economic variables included in the scenarios influence key items affecting financial companies' net income, including pre-provision net revenue and credit losses on loans and securities. Moreover, these variables exhibit fairly typical trends in adverse economic climates that can have unfavorable implications for companies' net income and, thus, capital positions.
(d) The economic variables included in the scenario may change over time. For example, the Board may add variables to a scenario if the international footprint of companies that are subject to the stress testing rules changed notably over time such that the variables already included in the scenario no longer sufficiently capture the material risks of these companies. Alternatively, historical relationships between macroeconomic variables could change over time such that one variable (e.g., disposable personal income growth) that previously provided a good proxy for another (e.g., light vehicle sales) in modeling companies' pre-provision net revenue or credit losses ceases to do so, resulting in the need to create a separate path, or alternative proxy, for the other variable. However, recognizing the amount of work required for companies to incorporate the scenario variables into their stress testing models, the Board expects to eliminate variables from the scenarios only in rare instances.
(e) The Board expects that the company may not use all of the variables provided in the scenario, if those variables are not appropriate to the company's line of business, or may add additional variables, as appropriate. The Board expects the companies to ensure that the paths of such additional variables are consistent with the scenarios the Board provided. For example, the companies may use, as part of their internal stress test models, local-level variables, such as state-level unemployment rates or city-level house prices. While the Board does not plan to include local-level macro variables in the stress test scenarios it provides, it expects the companies to evaluate the paths of local-level macro variables as needed for their internal models, and ensure internal consistency between these variables and their aggregate, macro-economic counterparts. The Board will provide the macroeconomic scenario component of the stress test scenarios for a period that spans a minimum of 13 quarters. The scenario horizon reflects the supervisory stress test approach that the Board plans to use. Under the stress test rules, the Board will assess the effect of different scenarios on the consolidated capital of each company over a forward-looking planning horizon of at least nine quarters.

# 3.2 Market Shock Component
(a) The market shock component of the severely adverse scenario will only apply to companies with significant trading activity and their subsidiaries.
10
The component consists of large moves in market prices and rates that would be expected to generate losses. Market shocks differ from macroeconomic scenarios in a number of ways, both in their design and application. For instance, market shocks that might typically be observed over an extended period (
e.g.,
6 months) are assumed to be an instantaneous event which immediately affects the market value of the companies' trading assets and liabilities. In addition, under the stress test rules, the as-of date for market shocks will differ from the quarter-end, and the Board will provide the as-of date for market shocks no later than February 1 of each year. Finally, as described in section 4, the market shock includes a much larger set of risk factors than the set of economic and financial variables included in macroeconomic scenarios. Broadly, these risk factors include shocks to financial market variables that affect asset prices, such as a credit spread or the yield on a bond, and, in some cases, the value of the position itself (
e.g.,
the market value of private equity positions).
10
Currently, companies with significant trading activity include any bank holding company or intermediate holding company that (1) has aggregate trading assets and liabilities of $50 billion or more, or aggregate trading assets and liabilities equal to 10 percent or more of total consolidated assets, and (2) is not a large and noncomplex firm. The Board may also subject a state member bank subsidiary of any such bank holding company to the market shock component. The set of companies subject to the market shock component could change over time as the size, scope, and complexity of financial company's trading activities evolve.
(b) The Board envisions that the market shocks will include shocks to a broad range of risk factors that are similar in granularity to those risk factors that trading companies use internally to produce profit and loss estimates, under stressful market scenarios, for all asset classes that are considered trading assets, including equities, credit, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and commodities. Examples of risk factors include, but are not limited to:
(i) Equity indices of all developed markets, and of developing and emerging market nations to which companies with significant trading activity may have exposure, along with term structures of implied volatilities;
(ii) Cross-currency FX rates of all major and many minor currencies, along term structures of implied volatilities;
(iii) Term structures of government rates (e.g., U.S. Treasuries), interbank rates (e.g., swap rates) and other key rates (e.g., commercial paper) for all developed markets and for developing and emerging market nations to which companies may have exposure;
(iv) Term structures of implied volatilities that are key inputs to the pricing of interest rate derivatives;
(v) Term structures of futures prices for energy products including crude oil (differentiated by country of origin), natural gas, and power;
(vi) Term structures of futures prices for metals and agricultural commodities;
(vii) “Value-drivers” (credit spreads or instrument prices themselves) for credit-sensitive product segments including: Corporate bonds, credit default swaps, and collateralized debt obligations by risk; non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities by risk and vintage; sovereign debt; and, municipal bonds; and
(viii) Shocks to the values of private equity positions.

# 4. Approach for Formulating the Macroeconomic Assumptions for Scenarios
(a) This section describes the Board's approach for formulating macroeconomic assumptions for each scenario. The methodologies for formulating this part of each scenario differ by scenario, so these methodologies for the baseline and severely adverse scenarios are described separately in each of the following subsections.
(b) In general, the baseline scenario will reflect the most recently available consensus views of the macroeconomic outlook expressed by professional forecasters, government agencies, and other public-sector organizations as of the beginning of the stress-test cycle. The severely adverse scenario will consist of a set of economic and financial conditions that reflect the conditions of post-war U.S. recessions.
(c) Each of these scenarios is described further in sections below as follows: Baseline (subsection 4.1) and severely adverse (subsection 4.2)

# 4.1 Approach for Formulating Macroeconomic Assumptions in the Baseline Scenario
(a) The stress test rules define the baseline scenario as a set of conditions that affect the U.S. economy or the financial condition of a banking organization, and that reflect the consensus views of the economic and financial outlook. Projections under a baseline scenario are used to evaluate how companies would perform in more likely economic and financial conditions. The baseline serves also as a point of comparison to the severely adverse scenario, giving some sense of how much of the company's capital decline could be ascribed to the scenario as opposed to the company's capital adequacy under expected conditions.
(b) The baseline scenario will be developed around a macroeconomic projection that captures the prevailing views of private-sector forecasters (e.g., Blue Chip Consensus Forecasts and the Survey of Professional Forecasters), government agencies, and other public-sector organizations (e.g., the International Monetary Fund and the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development) near the beginning of the annual stress-test cycle. The baseline scenario is designed to represent a consensus expectation of certain economic variables over the time period of the tests and it is not the Board's internal forecast for those economic variables. For example, the baseline path of short-term interest rates is constructed from consensus forecasts and may differ from that implied by the FOMC's
Summary of Economic Projections.
(c) For some scenario variables—such as U.S. real GDP growth, the unemployment rate, and the consumer price index—there will be a large number of different forecasts available to project the paths of these variables in the baseline scenario. For others, a more limited number of forecasts will be available. If available forecasts diverge notably, the baseline scenario will reflect an assessment of the forecast that is deemed to be most plausible. In setting the paths of variables in the baseline scenario, particular care will be taken to ensure that, together, the paths present a coherent and plausible outlook for the U.S. and global economy, given the economic climate in which they are formulated.

# 4.2 Approach for Formulating the Macroeconomic Assumptions in the Severely Adverse Scenario
The stress test rules define a severely adverse scenario as a set of conditions that affect the U.S. economy or the financial condition of a financial company and that overall are significantly more severe than those associated with the baseline scenario. The financial company will be required to publicly disclose a summary of the results of its stress test under the severely adverse scenario, and the Board intends to publicly disclose the results of its analysis of the financial company under the severely adverse scenario.

# 4.2.1 General Approach: The Recession Approach
(a) The Board intends to use a recession approach to develop the severely adverse scenario. In the recession approach, the Board will specify the future paths of variables to reflect conditions that characterize post-war U.S. recessions, generating either a typical or specific recreation of a post-war U.S. recession. The Board chose this approach because it has observed that the conditions that typically occur in recessions—such as increasing unemployment, declining asset prices, and contracting loan demand—can put significant stress on companies' balance sheets. This stress can occur through a variety of channels, including higher loss provisions due to increased delinquencies and defaults; losses on trading positions through sharp moves in market prices; and lower bank income through reduced loan originations. For these reasons, the Board believes that the paths of economic and financial variables in the severely adverse scenario should, at a minimum, resemble the paths of those variables observed during a recession.
(b) This approach requires consideration of the type of recession to feature. All post-war U.S. recessions have not been identical: Some recessions have been associated with very elevated interest rates, some have been associated with sizable asset price declines, and some have been relatively more global. The most common features of recessions, however, are increases in the unemployment rate and contractions in aggregate incomes and economic activity. For this and the following reasons, the Board intends to use the unemployment rate as the primary basis for specifying the severely adverse scenario. First, the unemployment rate is likely the most representative single summary indicator of adverse economic conditions. Second, in comparison to GDP, labor market data have traditionally featured more prominently than GDP in the set of indicators that
the National Bureau of Economic Research reviews to inform its recession dates.
11
Third and finally, the growth rate of potential output can cause the size of the decline in GDP to vary between recessions. While changes in the unemployment rate can also vary over time due to demographic factors, this seems to have more limited implications over time relative to changes in potential output growth. The unemployment rate used in the severely adverse scenario will reflect an unemployment rate that has been observed in
severe
post-war U.S. recessions, measuring severity by the absolute level of and relative increase in the unemployment rate.
12
11
More recently, a monthly measure of GDP has been added to the list of indicators.
12
Even though all recessions feature increases in the unemployment rate and contractions in incomes and economic activity, the size of this change has varied over post-war U.S. recessions. Table 1 documents the variability in the depth of post-war U.S. recessions. Some recessions—labeled mild in Table 1—have been relatively modest with GDP edging down just slightly and the unemployment rate moving up about a percentage point. Other recessions—labeled severe in Table 1—have been much harsher with GDP dropping 3
3/4
percent and the unemployment rate moving up a total of about 4 percentage points.
(c) The Board believes that the severely adverse scenario should also reflect a housing recession. The house prices path set in the severely adverse scenario will reflect developments that have been observed in post-war U.S. housing recessions, measuring severity by the absolute level of and relative decrease in the house prices.
(d) The Board will specify the paths of most other macroeconomic variables based on the paths of unemployment, income, house prices, and activity. Some of these other variables, however, have taken wildly divergent paths in previous recessions (e.g., foreign GDP), requiring the Board to use its informed judgment in selecting appropriate paths for these variables. In general, the path for these other variables will be based on their underlying structure at the time that the scenario is designed (e.g., economic or financial-system vulnerabilities in other countries).
(e) The Board considered alternative methods for scenario design of the severely adverse scenario, including a probabilistic approach. The probabilistic approach constructs a baseline forecast from a large-scale macroeconomic model and identifies a scenario that would have a specific probabilistic likelihood given the baseline forecast. The Board believes that, at this time, the recession approach is better suited for developing the severely adverse scenario than a probabilistic approach because it guarantees a recession of some specified severity. In contrast, the probabilistic approach requires the choice of an extreme tail outcome—relative to baseline—to characterize the severely adverse scenario (e.g., a 5 percent or a 1 percent tail outcome). In practice, this choice is difficult as adverse economic outcomes are typically thought of in terms of how variables evolve in an absolute sense rather than how far away they lie in the probability space away from the baseline. In this sense, a scenario featuring a recession may be somewhat clearer and more straightforward to communicate. Finally, the probabilistic approach relies on estimates of uncertainty around the baseline scenario and such estimates are in practice model-dependent.

# 4.2.2 Setting the Unemployment Rate Under the Severely Adverse Scenario
(a) The Board anticipates that the severely adverse scenario will feature an unemployment rate that increases between 3 to 5 percentage points from its initial level over the course of 6 to 8 calendar quarters.
13
The initial level will be set based on the conditions at the time that the scenario is designed. However, if a 3 to 5 percentage point increase in the unemployment rate does not raise the level of the unemployment rate to at least 10 percent—the average level to which it has increased in the most recent three severe recessions—the path of the unemployment rate in most cases will be specified so as to raise the unemployment rate to at least 10 percent.
13
Six to eight quarters is the average number of quarters for which a severe recession lasts plus the average number of subsequent quarters over which the unemployment rate continues to rise. The variable length of the timeframe reflects the different paths to the peak unemployment rate depending on the severity of the scenario.
(b) This methodology is intended to generate scenarios that feature stressful outcomes but do not induce greater procyclicality in the financial system and macroeconomy. When the economy is in the early stages of a recovery, the unemployment rate in a baseline scenario generally trends downward, resulting in a larger difference between the path of the unemployment rate in the severely adverse scenario and the baseline scenario and a severely adverse scenario that is relatively more intense. Conversely, in a sustained strong expansion—when the unemployment rate may be below the level consistent with full employment—the unemployment in a baseline scenario generally trends upward, resulting in a smaller difference between the path of the unemployment rate in the severely adverse scenario and the baseline scenario and
a severely adverse scenario that is relatively less intense. Historically, a 3 to 5 percentage point increase in unemployment rate is reflective of stressful conditions. As illustrated in Table 1, over the last half-century, the U.S. economy has experienced four severe post-war recessions. In all four of these recessions, the unemployment rate increased 3 to 5 percentage points and in the three most recent of these recessions, the unemployment rate reached a level between 9 percent and 11 percent.
(c) Under this method, if the initial unemployment rate was low—as it would be after a sustained long expansion—the unemployment rate in the scenario would increase to a level as high as what has been seen in past severe recessions. However, if the initial unemployment rate was already high—as would be the case in the early stages of a recovery—the unemployment rate would exhibit a change as large as what has been seen in past severe recessions.
(d) The Board believes that the typical increase in the unemployment rate in the severely adverse scenario will be about 4 percentage points. However, the Board will calibrate the increase in unemployment based on its views of the status of cyclical systemic risk. The Board intends to set the unemployment rate at the higher end of the range if the Board believes that cyclical systemic risks are high (as it would be after a sustained long expansion), and to the lower end of the range if cyclical systemic risks are low (as it would be in the earlier stages of a recovery). This may result in a scenario that is slightly more intense than normal if the Board believed that cyclical systemic risks were increasing in a period of robust expansion.
14
Conversely, it will allow the Board to specify a scenario that is slightly less intense than normal in an environment where systemic risks appeared subdued, such as in the early stages of an expansion. Indeed, the Board expects that, in general, it will adopt a change in the unemployment rate of less than 4 percentage points when the unemployment rate at the start of the scenarios is elevated but the labor market is judged to be strengthening and higher-than-usual credit losses stemming from previously elevated unemployment rates were either already realized—or are in the process of being realized—and thus removed from banks' balance sheets.
15
However, even at the lower end of the range of unemployment-rate increases, the scenario will still feature an increase in the unemployment rate similar to what has been seen in about half of the severe recessions of the last 50 years.
14
Note, however, that the severity of the scenario would not exceed an implausible level: Even at the upper end of the range of unemployment-rate increases, the path of the unemployment rate would still be consistent with severe post-war U.S. recessions.
15
Evidence of a strengthening labor market could include a declining unemployment rate, steadily expanding nonfarm payroll employment, or improving labor force participation. Evidence that credit losses are being realized could include elevated charge-offs on loans and leases, loan-loss provisions in excess of gross charge-offs, or losses being realized in securities portfolios that include securities that are subject to credit risk.
(e) As indicated previously, if a 3 to 5 percentage point increase in the unemployment rate does not raise the level of the unemployment rate to 10 percent—the average level to which it has increased in the most recent three severe recessions—the path of the unemployment rate will be specified so as to raise the unemployment rate to 10 percent. Setting a floor for the unemployment rate at 10 percent recognizes the fact that not only do cyclical systemic risks build up at financial intermediaries during robust expansions but that these risks are also easily obscured by the buoyant environment.
(f) In setting the increase in the unemployment rate, the Board will consider the extent to which analysis by economists, supervisors, and financial market experts finds cyclical systemic risks to be elevated (but difficult to be captured more precisely in one of the scenario's other variables). In addition, the Board—in light of impending shocks to the economy and financial system—will also take into consideration the extent to which a scenario of some increased severity might be necessary for the results of the stress test and the associated supervisory actions to sustain confidence in financial institutions.
(g) While the approach to specifying the severely adverse scenario is designed to avoid adding sources of procyclicality to the financial system, it is not designed to explicitly offset any existing procyclical tendencies in the financial system. The purpose of the stress test scenarios is to make sure that the companies are properly capitalized to withstand severe economic and financial conditions, not to serve as an explicit countercyclical offset to the financial system.
(h) In developing the approach to the unemployment rate, the Board also considered a method that would increase the unemployment rate to some fairly elevated fixed level over the course of 6 to 8 quarters. This would result in scenarios being more severe in robust expansions (when the unemployment rate is low) and less severe in the early stages of a recovery (when the unemployment rate is high) and so would not result in pro-cyclicality. Depending on the initial level of the unemployment rate, this approach could lead to only a very modest increase in the unemployment rate—or even a
decline. As a result, this approach—while not procyclical—could result in scenarios not featuring stressful macroeconomic outcomes.

# 4.2.3 Setting the Other Variables in the Severely Adverse Scenario
(a) Generally, all other variables in the severely adverse scenario will be specified to be consistent with the increase in the unemployment rate. The approach for specifying the paths of these variables in the scenario will be a combination of (1) how economic models suggest that these variables should evolve given the path of the unemployment rate, (2) how these variables have typically evolved in past U.S. recessions, and (3) evaluation of these and other factors.
(b) Economic models—such as medium-scale macroeconomic models—should be able to generate plausible paths consistent with the unemployment rate for a number of scenario variables, such as real GDP growth, CPI inflation and short-term interest rates, which have relatively stable (direct or indirect) relationships with the unemployment rate (e.g., Okun's Law, the Phillips Curve, and interest rate feedback rules). For some other variables, specifying their paths will require a case-by-case consideration.
(c) Declining house prices, which are an important source of stress to a company's balance sheet, are not a steadfast feature of recessions, and the historical relationship of house prices with the unemployment rate is not strong. Simply adopting their typical path in a severe recession would likely underestimate risks stemming from the housing sector. In specifying the path for nominal house prices, the Board will consider the ratio of the nominal house price index (HPI) to nominal, per capita, disposable income (DPI). The Board believes that the typical decline in the HPI-DPI ratio will be at a minimum 25 percent from its starting value, or enough to bring the ratio down to its Great Recession trough. As illustrated in Table 2, housing recessions have on average featured HPI-DPI ratio declines of about 25 percent and the HPI-DPI ratio fell to its Great Recession trough.
16
16
The house-price retrenchments that occurred over the periods 1980-1985, 1989-1996, 2006-2011 (as detailed in Table 2) are referred to in this document as housing recessions. The date-ranges of housing recessions are based on the timing of house-price retrenchments. These dates were also associated with sustained declines in real residential investment, although, the precise timings of housing recessions would likely be slightly different were they to be classified based on real residential investment in addition to house prices. The ratios described in Table 2 are calculated based on nominal HPI and HPI-DPI ratios indexed to 100 in 2000:Q1.
(d) In addition, judgment is necessary in projecting the path of a scenario's international variables. Recessions that occur simultaneously across countries are an important source of stress to the balance sheets of companies with notable international exposures but are not an invariable feature of the international economy. As a result, simply adopting the typical path of international variables in a severe U.S. recession would likely underestimate the risks stemming from the international economy. Consequently, an approach that uses both judgment and economic models informs the path of international variables.

# 4.2.4 Adding Salient Risks to the Severely Adverse Scenario
(a) The severely adverse scenario will be developed to reflect specific risks to the economic and financial outlook that are especially salient but will feature minimally in the scenario if the Board were only to use approaches that looked to past recessions or relied on historical relationships between variables.
(b) There are some important instances when it will be appropriate to augment the recession approach with salient risks. For example, if an asset price were especially elevated and thus potentially vulnerable to an abrupt and potentially destabilizing decline, it would be appropriate to include such a decline in the scenario even if such a large drop were not typical in a severe recession. Likewise, if economic developments abroad were particularly unfavorable, assuming a weakening in international conditions larger than what typically occurs in severe U.S. recessions would likely also be appropriate.
(c) Clearly, while the recession component of the severely adverse scenario is within some predictable range, the salient risk aspect of the scenario is far less so, and therefore, needs an annual assessment. Each year, the Board will identify the risks to the financial system and the domestic and international economic outlooks that appear more elevated than usual, using its internal analysis and supervisory information and in consultation with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC). Using the same information, the Board will then calibrate the paths of the macroeconomic and financial variables in the scenario to reflect these risks.
(d) Detecting risks that have the potential to weaken the banking sector is particularly difficult when economic conditions are buoyant, as a boom can obscure the weaknesses present in the system. In sustained robust
expansions, therefore, the selection of salient risks to augment the scenario will err on the side of including risks of uncertain significance.
(e) The Board will factor in particular risks to the domestic and international macroeconomic outlook identified by its economists, bank supervisors, and financial market experts and make appropriate adjustments to the paths of specific economic variables. These adjustments will not be reflected in the general severity of the recession and, thus, all macroeconomic variables; rather, the adjustments will apply to a subset of variables to reflect co-movements in these variables that are historically less typical. The Board plans to discuss the motivation for the adjustments that it makes to variables to highlight systemic risks in the narrative describing the scenarios.
17
17
The means of effecting an adjustment to the severely adverse scenario to address salient systemic risks differs from the means used to adjust the unemployment rate. For example, in adjusting the scenario for an increased unemployment rate, the Board would modify all variables such that the future paths of the variables are similar to how these variables have moved historically. In contrast, to address salient risks, the Board may only modify a small number of variables in the scenario and, as such, their future paths in the scenario would be somewhat more atypical, albeit not implausible, given existing risks.

# 5. Approach for Formulating the Market Shock Component
(a) This section discusses the approach the Board proposes to adopt for developing the market shock component of the severely adverse scenario appropriate for companies with significant trading activities. The design and specification of the market shock component differs from that of the macroeconomic scenarios because profits and losses from trading are measured in mark-to-market terms, while revenues and losses from traditional banking are generally measured using the accrual method. As noted above, another critical difference is the time-evolution of the market shock component. The market shock component consists of an instantaneous “shock” to a large number of risk factors that determine the mark-to-market value of trading positions, while the macroeconomic scenarios supply a projected path of economic variables that affect traditional banking activities over the entire planning period.
(b) The development of the market shock component that are detailed in this section are as follows: Baseline (subsection 5.1) and severely adverse (subsection 5.2).

# 5.1 Approach for Formulating the Market Shock Component Under the Baseline Scenario
By definition, market shocks are large, previously unanticipated moves in asset prices and rates. Because asset prices should, broadly speaking, reflect consensus opinions about the future evolution of the economy, large price movements, as envisioned in the market shock, should not occur along the baseline path. As a result, the market shock will not be included in the baseline scenario.

# 5.2 Approach for Formulating the Market Shock Component Under the Severely Adverse Scenario
This section addresses possible approaches to designing the market shock component in the severely adverse scenario, including important considerations for scenario design, possible approaches to designing scenarios, and a development strategy for implementing the preferred approach.

# 5.2.1 Design Considerations for Market Shocks
(a) The general market practice for stressing a trading portfolio is to specify market shocks either in terms of extreme moves in observable, broad market indicators and risk factors or directly as large changes to the mark-to-market values of financial instruments. These moves can be specified either in relative terms or absolute terms. Supplying values of risk factors after a “shock” is roughly equivalent to the macroeconomic scenarios, which supply values for a set of economic and financial variables; however, trading stress testing differs from macroeconomic stress testing in several critical ways.
(b) In the past, the Board used one of two approaches to specify market shocks. During SCAP and CCAR in 2011, the Board used a very general approach to market shocks and required companies to stress their trading positions using changes in market prices and rates experienced during the second half of 2008, without specifying risk factor shocks. This broad guidance resulted in inconsistency across companies both in terms of the severity and the application of shocks. In certain areas, companies were permitted to use their own experience during the second half of 2008 to define shocks. This resulted in significant variation in shock severity across companies.
(c) To enhance the consistency and comparability in market shocks for the stress tests in 2012 and 2013, the Board provided to each trading company more than 35,000 specific risk factor shocks, primarily based on market moves in the second half of 2008. While the number of risk factors used in companies' pricing and stress-testing models still typically exceed that provided in the
Board's scenarios, the greater specificity resulted in more consistency in the scenario across companies. The benefit of the comprehensiveness of risk factor shocks is at least partly offset by the potential difficulty in creating shocks that are coherent and internally consistent, particularly as the framework for developing market shocks deviates from historical events.
(d) Also importantly, the ultimate losses associated with a given market shock will depend on a company's trading positions, which can make it difficult to rank order,
ex ante,
the severity of the scenarios. In certain instances, market shocks that include large market moves may not be particularly stressful for a given company. Aligning the market shock with the macroeconomic scenario for consistency may result in certain companies actually benefiting from risk factor moves of larger magnitude in the market scenario if the companies are hedging against salient risks to other parts of their business. Thus, the severity of market shocks must be calibrated to take into account how a complex set of risks, such as directional risks and basis risks, interacts with each other, given the companies' trading positions at the time of stress. For instance, a large depreciation in a foreign currency would benefit companies with net short positions in the currency while hurting those with net long positions. In addition, longer maturity positions may move differently from shorter maturity positions, adding further complexity.
(e) The instantaneous nature of market shocks and the immediate recognition of mark-to-market losses add another element to the design of market shocks, and to determining the appropriate severity of shocks. For instance, in previous stress tests, the Board assumed that market moves that occurred over the six-month period in late 2008 would occur instantaneously. The design of the market shocks must factor in appropriate assumptions around the period of time during which market events will unfold and any associated market responses.

# 5.2.2 Approaches to Market Shock Design
(a) As an additional component of the severely adverse scenario, the Board plans to use a standardized set of market shocks that apply to all companies with significant trading activity. The market shocks could be based on a single historical episode, multiple historical periods, hypothetical (but plausible) events, or some combination of historical episodes and hypothetical events (hybrid approach). Depending on the type of hypothetical events, a scenario based on such events may result in changes in risk factors that were not previously observed. In the supervisory scenarios for 2012 and 2013, the shocks were largely based on relative moves in asset prices and rates during the second half of 2008, but also included some additional considerations to factor in the widening of spreads for European sovereigns and financial companies based on actual observation during the latter part of 2011.
(b) For the market shock component in the severely adverse scenario, the Board plans to use the hybrid approach to develop shocks. The hybrid approach allows the Board to maintain certain core elements of consistency in market shocks each year while providing flexibility to add hypothetical elements based on market conditions at the time of the stress tests. In addition, this approach will help ensure internal consistency in the scenario because of its basis in historical episodes; however, combining the historical episode and hypothetical events may require small adjustments to ensure mutual consistency of the joint moves. In general, the hybrid approach provides considerable flexibility in developing scenarios that are relevant each year, and by introducing variations in the scenario, the approach will also reduce the ability of companies with significant trading activity to modify or shift their portfolios to minimize expected losses in the severely adverse market shock.
(c) The Board has considered a number of alternative approaches for the design of market shocks. For example, the Board explored an option of providing tailored market shocks for each trading company, using information on the companies' portfolio gathered through ongoing supervision, or other means. By specifically targeting known or potential vulnerabilities in a company's trading position, the tailored approach would be useful in assessing each company's capital adequacy as it relates to the company's idiosyncratic risk. However, the Board does not believe this approach to be well-suited for the stress tests required by regulation. Consistency and comparability are key features of annual supervisory stress tests and annual company-run stress tests required in the stress test rules. It would be difficult to use the information on the companies' portfolios to design a common set of shocks that are universally stressful for all covered companies. As a result, this approach would be better suited to more customized, tailored stress tests that are part of the company's internal capital planning process or to other supervisory efforts outside of the stress tests conducted under the capital rule and the stress test rules.

# 5.2.3 Development of the Market Shock
(a) Consistent with the approach described above, the market shock component for the severely adverse scenario will incorporate key elements of market developments during the second half of 2008, but will also incorporate observations from other periods or
price and rate movements in certain markets that the Board deems to be plausible, though such movements may not have been observed historically. Over time, the Board also expects to rely less on market events of the second half of 2008 and more on hypothetical events or other historical episodes to develop the market shock.
(b) The developments in the credit markets during the second half of 2008 were unprecedented, providing a reasonable basis for market shocks in the severely adverse scenario. During this period, key risk factors in virtually all asset classes experienced extremely large shocks; the collective breadth and intensity of the moves have no parallels in modern financial history and, on that basis, it seems likely that this episode will continue to be the most relevant historical scenario, although experience during other historical episodes may also guide the severity of the market shock component of the severely adverse scenario. Moreover, the risk factor moves during this episode are directly consistent with the “recession” approach that underlies the macroeconomic assumptions. However, market shocks based only on historical events could become stale and less relevant over time as the company's positions change, particularly if more salient features are not added each year.
(c) While the market shocks based on the second half of 2008 are of unparalleled magnitude, the shocks may become less relevant over time as the companies' trading positions change. In addition, more recent events could highlight the companies' vulnerability to certain market events. For example, in 2011, Eurozone credit spreads in the sovereign and financial sectors surpassed those observed during the second half of 2008, necessitating the modification of the severely adverse market shock in 2012 and 2013 to reflect a salient source of stress to trading positions. As a result, it is important to incorporate both historical and hypothetical outcomes into market shocks for the severely adverse scenario. For the time being, the development of market shocks in the severely adverse scenario will begin with the risk factor movements in a particular historical period, such as the second half of 2008. The Board will then consider hypothetical but plausible outcomes, based on financial stability reports, supervisory information, and internal and external assessments of market risks and potential flash points. The hypothetical outcomes could originate from major geopolitical, economic, or financial market events with potentially significant impacts on market risk factors. The severity of these hypothetical moves will likely be guided by similar historical events, assumptions embedded in the companies' internal stress tests or market participants, and other available information.
(d) Once broad market scenarios are agreed upon, specific risk factor groups will be targeted as the source of the trading stress. For example, a scenario involving the failure of a large, interconnected globally active financial institution could begin with a sharp increase in credit default swap spreads and a precipitous decline in asset prices across multiple markets, as investors become more risk averse and market liquidity evaporates. These broad market movements will be extrapolated to the granular level for all risk factors by examining transmission channels and the historical relationships between variables, though in some cases, the movement in particular risk factors may be amplified based on theoretical relationships, market observations, or the saliency to company trading books. If there is a disagreement between the risk factor movements in the historical event used in the scenario and the hypothetical event, the Board will reconcile the differences by assessing
a priori
expectations based on financial and economic theory and the importance of the risk factors to the trading positions of the covered companies.

# 6. Consistency Between the Macroeconomic Scenarios and the Market Shock
(a) As discussed earlier, the market shock comprises a set of movements in a very large number of risk factors that are realized instantaneously. Among the risk factors specified in the market shock are several variables also specified in the macroeconomic scenarios, such as short- and long-maturity interest rates on Treasury and corporate debt, the level and volatility of U.S. stock prices, and exchange rates.
(b) The market shock component is an add-on to the macroeconomic scenarios that is applied to a subset of companies, with no assumed effect on other aspects of the stress tests such as balances, revenues, or other losses. As a result, the market shock component may not be always directionally consistent with the macroeconomic scenario. Because the market shock is designed, in part, to mimic the effects of a sudden market dislocation, while the macroeconomic scenarios are designed to provide a description of the evolution of the real economy over two or more years, assumed economic conditions can move in significantly different ways. In effect, the market shock can simulate a market panic, during which financial asset prices move rapidly in unexpected directions, and the macroeconomic assumptions can simulate the severe recession that follows. Indeed, the pattern of a financial crisis, characterized by a short period of wild swings in asset prices followed by a prolonged period of moribund activity, and a subsequent severe recession is familiar and plausible.
(c) As discussed in section 4.2.4, the Board may feature a particularly salient risk in the macroeconomic assumptions for the severely adverse scenario, such as a fall in an elevated asset price. In such instances, the Board may also seek to reflect the same risk in one of the market shocks. For example, if the macroeconomic scenario were to feature a substantial decline in house prices, it may seem plausible for the market shock to also feature a significant decline in market values of any securities that are closely tied to the housing sector or residential mortgages.

# 7. Timeline for Scenario Publication
(a) The Board will provide a description of the macroeconomic scenarios by no later than February 15. During the period immediately preceding the publication of the scenarios, the Board will collect and consider information from academics, professional forecasters, international organizations, domestic and foreign supervisors, and other private-sector analysts that regularly conduct stress tests based on U.S. and global economic and financial scenarios, including analysts at the covered companies. In addition, the Board will consult with the FDIC and the OCC on the salient risks to be considered in the scenarios. The Board expects to conduct this process in October and November of each year and to update the scenarios, based on incoming macroeconomic data releases and other information, through the end of January.
(b) The Board expects to provide a broad overview of the market shock component along with the macroeconomic scenarios. The Board will publish the market shock templates by no later than March 1 of each year, and intends to publish the market shock earlier in the stress test and capital plan cycles to allow companies more time to conduct their stress tests.
Table 1—Classification of U.S. Recessions
Peak
Trough
Severity
Duration
(quarters)
Decline in
real GDP
Change in the
unemployment
rate during
the recession
Total change
in the
unemployment
rate (incl.
after the
recession)
1957Q3
1958Q2
Severe
4 (Medium)
−3.6
3.2
3.2
1960Q2
1961Q1
Moderate
4 (Medium)
−1.0
1.6
1.8
1969Q4
1970Q4
Moderate
5 (Medium)
−0.2
2.2
2.4
1973Q4
1975Q1
Severe
6 (Long)
−3.1
3.4
4.1
1980Q1
1980Q3
Moderate
3 (Short)
−2.2
1.4
1.4
1981Q3
1982Q4
Severe
6 (Long)
−2.8
3.3
3.3
1990Q3
1991Q1
Mild
3 (Short)
−1.3
0.9
1.9
2001Q1
2001Q4
Mild
4 (Medium)
0.2
1.3
2.0
2007Q4
2009Q2
Severe
7 (Long)
−4.3
4.5
5.1
Average
Severe
6
−3.5
3.7
3.9
Average
Moderate
4
−1.1
1.8
1.8
Average
Mild
3
−0.6
1.1
1.9
Source:
Bureau of Economic Analysis, National Income and Product Accounts, Comprehensive Revision on July 31, 2013.
Table 2—House Prices in Housing Recessions
Peak
Trough
Severity
Duration
(quarters)
%-change
in NHPI
%-change
in HPI-DPI
HPI-DPI
trough level
(2000:Q1 = 100)
1980Q2
1985Q2
Moderate
20 (long)
26.6
−15.9
102.1
1989Q4
1997Q1
Moderate
29 (long)
10.5
−17.0
94.9
2005Q4
2012Q1
Severe
25 (long)
−29.6
−41.3
86.9
Average
24.7
2.5
−24.7
94.6
Source:
CoreLogic, BEA.
Note: The date-ranges of housing recessions listed in Table 2 are based on the timing of house-price retrenchments.
[84 FR 6655, Feb. 28, 2019, as amended at 84 FR 59121, Nov. 1, 2019]
Pt. 252, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 252—Stress Testing Policy Statement
This Policy Statement describes the principles, policies, and procedures that guide the development, implementation, and validation of models used in the Federal Reserve's supervisory stress test.

# 1. Principles of Supervisory Stress Testing
The system of models used in the supervisory stress test is designed to result in projections that are (i) from an independent supervisory perspective; (ii) forward-looking;
(iii) consistent and comparable across covered companies; (iv) generated from simpler and more transparent approaches, where appropriate; (v) robust and stable; (vi) conservative; and (vii) able to capture the impact of economic stress. These principles are further explained below.

# 1.1. Independence
(a) In the supervisory stress test, the Federal Reserve uses supervisory models that are developed internally and independently (
i.e.,
separate from models used by covered companies). The supervisory models rely on detailed portfolio data provided by covered companies but do not rely on models or estimates provided by covered companies to the greatest extent possible.
(b) The Federal Reserve's stress testing framework is unique among regulators in its use of independent estimates of losses and revenues under stress. These estimates provide a perspective that is not formed in consultation with covered companies or influenced by firm-provided estimates and that is useful to the public in its evaluation of covered companies' capital adequacy. This perspective is also valuable to covered companies, who may benefit from external assessments of their own losses and revenues under stress, and from the degree of credibility that independence confers upon supervisory stress test results.
(c) The independence of the supervisory stress test allows stress test projections to adhere to the other key principles described in the Policy Statement. The use of independent models allows for consistent treatment across firms. Losses and revenues under stress are estimated using the same modeling assumptions for all covered companies, enabling comparisons across supervisory stress test results. Differences in covered companies' results reflect differences in firm-specific risks and input data instead of differences in modeling assumptions. The use of independent models also ensures that stress test results are produced by stress-focused models, designed to project the performance of covered companies in adverse economic conditions.
(d) In instances in which it is not possible or appropriate to create a supervisory model for use in the stress test, including when supervisory data are insufficient to support a modeled estimate of losses or revenues, the Federal Reserve may use firm-provided estimates or third-party models or data. For example, in order to project trading and counterparty losses, sensitivities to risk factors and other information generated by covered companies' internal models are used. In the cases where firm-provided or third-party model estimates are used, the Federal Reserve monitors the quality and performance of the estimates through targeted examination, additional data collection, or benchmarking. The Board releases a list of the providers of third-party models or data used in the stress test exercise in the annual disclosure of quantitative results.

# 1.2. Forward-Looking
(a) The Federal Reserve has designed the supervisory stress test to be forward-looking. Supervisory models are tools for producing projections of potential losses and revenue effects based on each covered company's portfolio and circumstances.
(b) While supervisory models are specified using historical data, they should generally avoid relying solely on extrapolation of past trends in order to make projections, and instead should be able to incorporate events or outcomes that have not occurred. As described in Section 2.4, the Federal Reserve implements several supervisory modeling policies to limit reliance on past outcomes in its projections of losses and revenues. The incorporation of the macroeconomic scenario and global market shock component also introduces elements outside of the realm of historical experience into the supervisory stress test.

# 1.3. Consistency and Comparability
The Federal Reserve uses the same set of models and assumptions to produce loss projections for all covered companies participating in the supervisory stress test. A standard set of scenarios, assumptions, and models promotes equitable treatment of firms participating in the supervisory stress test and comparability of results, supporting cross-firm analysis and providing valuable information to supervisors and to the public. Adhering to a consistent modeling approach across covered companies means that differences in projected results are due to differences in input data, such as instrument type or portfolio risk characteristics, rather than differences in firm-specific assumptions made by the Federal Reserve.

# 1.4. Simplicity
The Federal Reserve uses simple approaches in supervisory modeling, where possible. Given a range of modeling approaches that are equally conceptually sound, the Federal Reserve will select the least complex modeling approach. In assessing simplicity, the Federal Reserve favors those modeling approaches that allow for a more straightforward interpretation of the drivers of model results and that minimize operational challenges for model implementation.

# 1.5. Robustness and Stability
The Federal Reserve maintains supervisory models that aim to be robust and stable, such that changes in model projections over time reflect underlying risk factors, scenarios, and model enhancements, rather
than transitory factors. The estimates of post-stress capital produced by the supervisory stress test provide information regarding a covered company's capital adequacy to market participants, covered companies, and the public. Adherence to this principle helps to ensure that changes in these model projections over time are not driven by temporary variations in model performance or inputs. Supervisory models are recalibrated with newly available input data each year. These data affect supervisory model projections, particularly in times of evolving risks. However, these changes generally should not be the principal driver of a change in results, year over year.

# 1.6. Conservatism
Given a reasonable set of assumptions or approaches, all else equal, the Federal Reserve will opt to use those that result in larger losses or lower revenue. For example, given a lack of information about the true risk of a portfolio, the Federal Reserve will compensate for the lack of data by using a high percentile loss rate.

# 1.7. Focus on the Ability To Evaluate the Impact of Severe Economic Stress
In evaluating whether supervisory models are appropriate for use in a stress testing exercise, the Federal Reserve places particular emphasis on supervisory models' abilities to project outcomes in stressed economic environments. In the supervisory stress test, the Federal Reserve also seeks to capture risks to capital that arise specifically in times of economic stress, and that would not be prevalent in more typical economic environments. For example, the Federal Reserve includes losses stemming from the default of a covered company's largest counterparty in its projections of post-stress capital for firms with substantial trading or processing and custodian operations. The default of a company's largest counterparty is more likely to occur in times of severe economic stress than in normal economic conditions.

# 2. Supervisory Stress Test Model Policies
To be consistent with the seven principles outlined in Section 1, the Federal Reserve has established policies and procedures to guide the development, implementation, and use of all models used in supervisory stress test projections, described in more detail below. Each policy facilitates adherence to at least one of the modeling principles that govern the supervisory stress test, and in most cases facilitates adherence to several modeling principles.

# 2.1. Soundness in Model Design
(a) During development, the Federal Reserve (i) subjects supervisory models to extensive review of model theory and logic and general conceptual soundness; (ii) examines and evaluates justifications for modeling assumptions; and (iii) tests models to establish the accuracy and stability of the estimates and forecasts that they produce.
(b) After development, the Federal Reserve continues to subject supervisory models to scrutiny during implementation to ensure that the models remain appropriate for use in the stress test exercise. The Federal Reserve monitors changes in the economic environment, the structure of covered companies and their portfolios, and the structure of the stress testing exercise, if applicable, to verify that a model in use continues to serve the purposes for which it was designed. Generally, the same principles, rigor, and standards for evaluating the suitability of supervisory models that apply in model development and design will apply in ongoing monitoring of supervisory models.

# 2.2. Disclosure of Information Related to the Supervisory Stress Test
(a) In general, the Board does not disclose information related to the supervisory stress test or firm-specific results to covered companies if that information is not also publicly disclosed.
(b) The Board has increased the breadth of its public disclosure since the inception of the supervisory stress test to include more information about model changes and key risk drivers, in addition to more detail on different components of projected net revenues and losses. Increasing public disclosure can help the public understand and interpret the results of the supervisory stress test, particularly with respect to the condition and capital adequacy of participating firms. Providing additional information about the supervisory stress test allows the public to make an evaluation of the quality of the Board's assessment. This policy also promotes consistent and equitable treatment of covered companies by ensuring that institutions do not have access to information about the supervisory stress test that is not also accessible publicly, corresponding to the principle of consistency and comparability.

# 2.3. Phasing in of Highly Material Model Changes
(a) The Federal Reserve may revise its supervisory stress test models to include advances in modeling techniques, enhancements in response to model validation findings, incorporation of richer and more detailed data, public comment, and identification of models with improved performance, particularly under adverse economic conditions. Revisions to supervisory stress models may at times have material impact on modeled outcomes.
(b) In order to mitigate sudden and unexpected changes to the supervisory stress test
results, the Federal Reserve follows a general policy of phasing highly material model changes into the supervisory stress test over two years. The Federal Reserve assesses whether a model change would have a highly significant impact on the projections of losses, components of revenue, or post-stress capital ratios for covered companies. In these instances, in the first year when the model change is first implemented, estimates produced by the enhanced model are averaged with estimates produced by the model used in the previous stress test exercise. In the second and subsequent years, the supervisory stress test exercise will reflect only estimates produced by the enhanced model. This policy contributes to the stability of the results of the supervisory stress test. By implementing highly material model changes over the course of two stress test cycles, the Federal Reserve seeks to ensure that changes in model projections primarily reflect changes in underlying risk factors and scenarios, year over year.
(c) In general, phase-in thresholds for highly material model changes apply only to conceptual changes to models. Model changes related to changes in accounting or regulatory capital rules and model parameter re-estimation based on newly available data are implemented with immediate effect.
(d) In assessing the materiality of a model change, the Federal Reserve calculates the impact of using an enhanced model on post-stress capital ratios using data and scenarios from prior years' supervisory stress test exercises. The use of an enhanced model is considered a highly material change if its use results in a change in the CET1 ratio of 50 basis points or more for one or more firms, relative to the model used in prior years' supervisory exercises.

# 2.4. Limiting Reliance on Past Outcomes
(a) Models should not place undue emphasis on historical outcomes in predicting future outcomes. The Federal Reserve aims to produce supervisory stress test results that reflect likely outcomes under the supervisory scenarios. The supervisory scenarios may potentially incorporate events that have not occurred historically. It is not necessarily consistent with the purpose of a stress testing exercise to assume that the future will be like the past.
(b) In order to model potential outcomes outside the realm of historical experience, the Federal Reserve generally does not include variables that would capture unobserved historical patterns in supervisory models. The use of industry-level models, restricted use of firm-specific fixed effects (described below), and minimized use of dummy variables indicating a loan vintage or a specific year, ensure that the outcomes of the supervisory models are forward-looking, consistent and comparable across firms, and robust and stable.
(c) Firm-specific fixed effects are variables that identify a specific firm and capture unobserved differences in the revenues, expenses or losses between firms. Firm-specific fixed effects are generally not incorporated in supervisory models in order to avoid the assumption that unobserved firm-specific historical patterns will continue in the future. Exceptions to this policy are made where appropriate. For example, if granular portfolio-level data on key drivers of a covered company's performance are limited or unavailable, and firm-specific fixed effects are more predictive of a covered company's future performance than are industry-level variables, then supervisory models may be specified with firm-specific fixed effects.
(d) Models used in the supervisory stress test are developed according to an industry-level approach, calibrated using data from many institutions. In adhering to an industry-level approach, the Federal Reserve models the response of specific portfolios and instruments to variations in macroeconomic and financial scenario variables. In this way, the Federal Reserve ensures that differences across firms are driven by differences in firm-specific input data, as opposed to differences in model parameters or specifications. The industry approach to modeling is also forward-looking, as the Federal Reserve does not assume that historical patterns will necessarily continue into the future for individual firms. By modeling a portfolio or instrument's response to changes in economic or financial conditions at the industry level, the Federal Reserve ensures that projected future losses are a function of that portfolio or instrument's own characteristics, rather than the historical experience of the covered company. This policy helps to ensure that two firms with the same portfolio receive the same results for that portfolio in the supervisory stress test.
(e) The Federal Reserve minimizes the use of vintage or year-specific fixed effects when estimating models and producing supervisory projections. In general, these types of variables are employed only when there are significant structural market shifts or other unusual factors for which supervisory models cannot otherwise account. Similar to the firm-specific fixed effects policy, and consistent with the forward-looking principle, this vintage indicator policy is in place so that projections of future performance under stress do not incorporate assumptions that patterns in unmeasured factors from brief historical time periods persist. For example, the loans originated in a particular year should not be assumed to continue to default at a higher rate in the future because they did so in the past.

# 2.5. Treatment of Global Market Shock and Counterparty Default Component
(a) Both the global market shock and counterparty default components are exogenous components of the supervisory stress scenarios that are independent of the macroeconomic and financial market environment specified in those scenarios, and do not affect projections of risk-weighted assets or balances. The global market shock, which specifies movements in numerous market factors,
14
applies only to covered companies with significant trading exposure. The counterparty default scenario component applies only to covered companies with substantial trading or processing and custodian operations. Though these stress factors may not be directly correlated to macroeconomic or financial assumptions, they can materially affect covered companies' risks. Losses from both components are therefore considered in addition to the estimates of losses under the macroeconomic scenario.
14
See
12 CFR part 252, appendix A, “Policy Statement on the Scenario Design Framework for Stress Testing,” for a detailed description of the global market shock.
(b) Counterparty credit risk on derivatives and repo-style activities is incorporated in supervisory modeling in part by assuming the default of the single counterparty to which the covered firm would be most exposed in the global market shock event.
15
Requiring covered companies subject to the large counterparty default component to estimate and report the potential losses and effects on capital associated with such an instantaneous default is a simple method for capturing an important risk to capital for firms with large trading and custodian or processing activities. Engagement in substantial trading or custodial operations makes the covered companies subject to the counterparty default scenario component particularly vulnerable to the default of their major counterparty or their clients' counterparty, in transactions for which the covered companies act as agents. The large counterparty default component is consistent with the purpose of a stress testing exercise, as discussed in the principle about the focus on the ability to evaluate the impact of severe economic stress. The default of a covered company's largest counterparty is a salient risk in a macroeconomic and financial crisis, and generally less likely to occur in times of economic stability. This approach seeks to ensure that covered companies can absorb losses associated with the default of any counterparty, in addition to losses associated with adverse economic conditions, in an environment of economic uncertainty.
15
In addition to incorporating counterparty credit risk by assuming the default of the covered company's largest counterparty, the Federal Reserve incorporates counterparty credit risk in the supervisory stress test by estimating mark-to-market losses, credit valuation adjustment (CVA) losses, and incremental default risk (IDR) losses associated with the global market shock.
(c) The full effect of the global market shock and counterparty default components is realized in net income in the first quarter of the projection horizon in the supervisory stress test. The Board expects covered companies with material trading and counterparty exposures to be sufficiently capitalized to absorb losses stemming from these exposures that could occur during times of general macroeconomic stress.

# 2.6. [Reserved]

# 2.7. Credit Supply Maintenance
(a) The supervisory stress test incorporates the assumption that aggregate credit supply does not contract during the stress period. The aim of supervisory stress testing is to assess whether firms are sufficiently capitalized to absorb losses during times of economic stress, while also meeting obligations and continuing to lend to households and businesses. The assumption that a balance sheet of consistent magnitude is maintained allows supervisors to evaluate the health of the banking sector assuming firms continue to lend during times of stress.
(b) In order to implement this policy, the Federal Reserve must make assumptions about new loan balances. To predict losses on new originations over the planning horizon, newly originated loans are assumed to have the same risk characteristics as the existing portfolio, where applicable, with the exception of loan age and delinquency status. These newly originated loans would be part of a covered company's normal business, even in a stressed economic environment. While an individual firm may assume that it reacts to rising losses by sharply restricting its lending (
e.g.,
by exiting a particular business line), the banking industry as a whole cannot do so without creating a “credit crunch” and substantially increasing the severity and duration of an economic downturn. The assumption that the magnitude of firm balance sheets will be fixed in the supervisory stress test ensures that covered companies cannot assume they will “shrink to health,” and serves the Federal Reserve's goal of helping to ensure that major financial firms remain sufficiently capitalized to accommodate credit demand in a severe downturn. In addition, by precluding the need to make assumptions about how underwriting standards might tighten or loosen during times of economic stress, the Federal Reserve follows the principle of consistency
and comparability and promotes consistency across covered companies.
(c) In projecting the denominator for the calculation of the leverage ratio, the Federal Reserve will account for the effect of changes associated with the calculation of regulatory capital or changes to the Board's regulations.

# 2.8. Firm-Specific Overlays and Additional Firm-Provided Data
(a) The Federal Reserve does not make firm-specific overlays to model results used in the supervisory stress test. This policy ensures that the supervisory stress test results are determined solely by the industry-level supervisory models and by firm-specific input data. The Federal Reserve has instituted a policy of not using additional input data submitted by one or some of the covered companies unless comparable data can be collected from all the firms that have material exposure in a given area. Input data necessary to produce supervisory stress test estimates is collected via the FR Y-14 information collection. The Federal Reserve may request additional information from covered companies, but otherwise will not incorporate additional information provided as part of a firm's CCAR submission or obtained through other channels into stress test projections.
(b) This policy curbs the use of data only from firms that have incentives to provide it, as in cases in which additional data would support the estimation of a lower loss rate or a higher revenue rate, and promotes consistency across the stress test results of covered companies.

# 2.9. Treatment of Missing or Erroneous Data
(a) Missing data, or data with deficiencies significant enough to preclude the use of supervisory models, create uncertainty around estimates of losses or components of revenue. If data that are direct inputs to supervisory models are not provided as required by the FR Y-14 information collection or are reported erroneously, then a conservative value will be assigned to the specific data based on all available data reported by covered companies, depending on the extent of data deficiency. If the data deficiency is severe enough that a modeled estimate cannot be produced for a portfolio segment or portfolio, then the Federal Reserve may assign a conservative rate (e.g., 10th or 90th percentile PPNR or loss rate, respectively) to that segment or portfolio.
(b) This policy promotes the principle of conservatism, given a lack of information sufficient to produce a risk-sensitive estimate of losses or revenue components using information on the true characteristics of certain positions. This policy ensures consistent treatment for all covered companies that report data deemed insufficient to produce a modeled estimate. Finally, this policy is simple and transparent.

# 2.10. Treatment of Immaterial Portfolio Data
(a) The Federal Reserve makes a distinction between insufficient data reported by covered companies for material portfolios and immaterial portfolios. To limit regulatory burden, the Federal Reserve allows covered companies not to report detailed loan-level or portfolio-level data for loan types that are not material as defined in the FR Y-14 reporting instructions. In these cases, a loss rate representing the median rates among covered companies for whom the rate is calculated will be applied to the immaterial portfolio. This approach is consistent across covered companies, simple, and transparent, and promotes the principles of consistency and comparability and simplicity.

# 3. Principles and Policies of Supervisory Model Validation
(a) Independent and comprehensive model validation is key to the credibility of supervisory stress tests. An independent unit of validation staff within the Federal Reserve, with input from an advisory council of academic experts not affiliated with the Federal Reserve, ensures that stress test models are subject to effective challenge, defined as critical analysis by objective, informed parties that can identify model limitations and recommend appropriate changes.
(b) The Federal Reserve's supervisory model validation program, built upon the principles of independence, technical competence, and stature, is able to subject models to effective challenge, expanding upon efforts made by supervisory modeling teams to manage model risk and confirming that supervisory models are appropriate for their intended uses. The supervisory model validation program produces reviews that are consistent, thorough, and comprehensive. Its structure ensures independence from the Federal Reserve's model development function, and its prominent role in communicating the state of model risk to the Board of Governors assures its stature within the Federal Reserve.

# 3.1. Structural Independence
(a) The management and staff of the internal model validation program are structurally independent from the model development teams. Validators do not report to model developers, and vice versa. This ensures that model validation is conducted and overseen by objective parties. Validation staff's performance criteria include an ability to review all aspects of the models rigorously, thoroughly, and objectively, and to
provide meaningful and clear feedback to model developers and users.
(b) In addition, the Model Validation Council, a council of external academic experts, provides independent advice on the Federal Reserve's process to assess models used in the supervisory stress test. In biannual meetings with Federal Reserve officials, members of the council discuss selective supervisory models, after being provided with detailed model documentation for and non-public information about those models. The documentation and discussions enable the council to assess the effectiveness of the models used in the supervisory stress tests and of the overarching model validation program.

# 3.2. Technical Competence of Validation Staff
(a) The model validation program is designed to provide thorough, high-quality reviews that are consistent across supervisory models.
(b) First, the model validation program employs technically expert staff with knowledge across model types. Second, reviews for every supervisory model follow the same set of review guidelines, and take place on an ongoing basis. The model validation program is comprehensive, in the sense that validators assess all models currently in use, expand the scope of validation beyond basic model use, and cover both model soundness and performance.
(c) The model validation program covers three main areas of validation: (1) Conceptual soundness; (2) ongoing monitoring; and (3) outcomes analysis. Validation staff evaluates all aspects of model development, implementation, and use, including but not limited to theory, design, methodology, input data, testing, performance, documentation standards, implementation controls (including access and change controls), and code verification.

# 3.3. Stature of Validation Function
(a) The validation program informs the Board of Governors about the state of model risk in the overall stress testing program, along with ongoing practices to control and mitigate model risk.
(b) The model validation program communicates its findings and recommendations regarding model risk to relevant parties within the Federal Reserve System. Validators provide detailed feedback to model developers and provide thematic feedback or observations on the overall system of models to the management of the modeling teams. Model validation feedback is also communicated to the users of supervisory model output for use in their deliberations and decisions about supervisory stress testing. In addition, the Director of the Division of Supervision and Regulation approves all models used in the supervisory stress test in advance of each exercise, based on validators' recommendations, development responses, and suggestions for risk mitigants. In several cases, models have been modified or implemented differently based on validators' feedback. The Model Validation Council also contributes to the stature of the Federal Reserve's validation program, by providing an external point of view on modifications to supervisory models and on validation program governance.

# 3.4. Simple approach for projecting risk-weighted assets
(a) In projecting risk-weighted assets, the Federal Reserve will generally assume that a covered company's risk-weighted assets remain unchanged over the planning horizon. This assumption allows the Federal Reserve to independently project the risk-weighted assets of covered companies in line with the goal of simplicity (Principle 1.4). In addition, this approach is forward-looking (Principle 1.2), as this assumption removes reliance on historical data and past outcomes from the projection of risk-weighted assets.
(b) In projecting a firm's risk-weighted assets, the Federal Reserve will account for the effect of changes associated with the calculation of regulatory capital or changes to the Board's regulations in the calculation of risk-weighted assets.
[84 FR 6668, Feb. 28, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 15605, Mar. 18, 2020; 86 FR 7949, Feb. 3, 2021]
Pt. 253

# PART 253—REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTING THE ADJUSTABLE INTEREST RATE (LIBOR) ACT (REGULATION ZZ)
Sec.
253.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
253.2
Definitions.
253.3
Applicability.
253.4
Board-selected benchmark replacements.
253.5
Benchmark replacement conforming changes.
253.6
Preemption.
253.7
Continuity of contract and safe harbor.
Appendix A to Part 253—ISDA Protocol

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 5801
et seq.

# Source:
88 FR 5220, Jan. 26, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 253.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) has issued this part (Regulation ZZ)
under the authority of Public Law 117-103, division U (the “Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act”), codified at 12 U.S.C. 5801
et seq.
(b)
Purpose.
The purposes of the Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act are to establish a clear and uniform process, on a nationwide basis, for replacing the overnight and one-, three-, six-, and 12-month tenors of U.S. dollar LIBOR in existing contracts that do not provide for the use of a clearly defined or practicable replacement benchmark rate; to preclude litigation related to such existing contracts; to allow existing contracts that reference LIBOR but provide for the use of a clearly defined and practicable replacement rate to operate according to their terms; and to address LIBOR references in Federal law.
148
This part implements the statute by defining terms used in the statute and identifying Board-selected benchmark replacements for LIBOR contracts.
148
The act does not affect the ability of parties to use any appropriate benchmark rate in new contracts.
(c)
Scope.
As described in § 253.3, the Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act and this part apply by their terms to existing contracts governed by Federal law or the law of any state that reference the overnight and one-, three-, six-, and 12-month tenors of U.S. dollar LIBOR and do not have fallback provisions providing for the use of a clearly defined and practicable replacement benchmark rate following the LIBOR replacement date, unless the parties to that contract agree in writing that the contract is not subject to the Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act. This part does not apply to or affect existing or prospective contracts that do not reference the overnight or one-, three-, six-, or 12-month tenors of U.S. dollar LIBOR, and except as provided in § 253.3(a)(1)(iii) and (c), generally does not apply to or affect LIBOR contracts that have fallback provisions providing for the use of a clearly defined and practicable replacement benchmark for LIBOR (either directly or through selection by a determining person), even if that rate differs from the otherwise applicable Board-selected benchmark replacement. Any determining person's selection of the applicable Board-selected benchmark replacement pursuant to § 253.3(c) is subject to §§ 253.4, 253.5 (including any benchmark replacement conforming changes made by a calculating person), §§ 253.6, and 253.7.
§ 253.2
Definitions.
30-day Average SOFR
means the 30-calendar-day compounded average of SOFR, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or any successor administrator.
90-day Average SOFR
means the 90-calendar-day compounded average of SOFR, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or any successor administrator.
Benchmark
means an index of interest rates or dividend rates that is used, in whole or in part, as the basis of or as a reference for calculating or determining any valuation, payment, or other measurement.
Benchmark administrator
means a person that publishes a benchmark for use by third parties.
Benchmark replacement
means a benchmark, or an interest rate or dividend rate (which may or may not be based in whole or in part on a prior setting of LIBOR) to replace LIBOR or any interest rate or dividend rate based on LIBOR, whether on a temporary, permanent, or indefinite basis, under or with respect to a LIBOR contract.
Benchmark replacement conforming change
means any technical, administrative, or operational change, alteration, or modification that:
(1) The Board determines, in its discretion, would address one or more issues affecting the implementation, administration, and calculation of the Board-selected benchmark replacement in LIBOR contracts; or
(2) Solely with respect to a LIBOR contract that is not a consumer loan, in the reasonable judgment of a calculating person, are otherwise necessary or appropriate to permit the implementation, administration, and calculation of the Board-selected benchmark replacement under or with respect to a LIBOR contract after giving due consideration to any benchmark replacement conforming changes determined
by the Board under paragraph (1) of this definition.
Board-selected benchmark replacement
means the benchmark replacements identified in § 253.4.
Business day
means any day except for:
(1) A Saturday;
(2) A Sunday;
(3) A day on which the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association recommends that the fixed income departments of its members be closed for the entire day for purposes of trading in United States Government securities; or
(4) A day on which the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, with advance notice, chooses not to publish its Treasury repurchase agreement reference rates if participants in the Treasury repurchase agreement market broadly expect to treat that day as a holiday.
Calculating person
means, with respect to any LIBOR contract, any person, including the determining person, responsible for calculating or determining any valuation, payment, or other measurement based on a benchmark.
CME Term SOFR
means the CME Term SOFR Reference Rates published for one-, three-, six-, and 12-month tenors as administered by CME Group Benchmark Administration, Ltd. (or any successor administrator thereof).
Consumer
has the same meaning as in section 103 of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1602).
Consumer loan
means a consumer credit transaction.
Credit
has the same meaning as in section 103 of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1602).
Derivative transaction
means a contract that would satisfy the criteria to be a “Protocol Covered Document” under the International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) protocol (
see
appendix A to this part) but for the fact that one or more parties to such contract is not an “Adhering Party” as such term is used in the ISDA protocol, provided that, for purposes of this definition, “Protocol Effective Date” as such term is used in the ISDA protocol means the LIBOR replacement date for the relevant LIBOR contract.
Derivative transaction fallback observation day
means the day that is two payment business days prior to the payment date for the relevant calculation period.
Determining person
means, with respect to any LIBOR contract, any person with the sole authority, right, or obligation, including on a temporary basis (as identified by the LIBOR contract or by the governing law of the LIBOR contract, as appropriate) to determine a benchmark replacement, whether or not the person's authority, right, or obligation is subject to any contingencies specified in the LIBOR contract or by the governing law of the LIBOR contract.
Fallback provisions
means terms in a LIBOR contract for determining a benchmark replacement, including any terms relating to the date on which the benchmark replacement becomes effective.
Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA)-regulated entity
has the same meaning as “regulated entity” in 12 U.S.C. 4502(20).
Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) asset-backed securitization (ABS)
means an asset-backed security for which more than 50 percent of the collateral pool consists of FFELP loans, as reported in the most recent servicer report available on the LIBOR replacement date.
FHFA-regulated-entity contract
means a LIBOR contract that is a commercial or multifamily mortgage loan that has been purchased or guaranteed, in whole or in part, by an FHFA-regulated entity, or for which an FHFA-regulated entity is identified as a party in the transaction documents, and that is:
(1) A commercial or multifamily mortgage-backed security (other than a security backed by consumer loans);
(2) A collateralized mortgage obligation;
(3) A credit risk transfer transaction; or
(4) A Federal Home Loan Bank advance.
ISDA protocol
means the ISDA 2020 IBOR Fallbacks Protocol published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., on October 23,
2020, and minor or technical amendments thereto (
see
appendix A to this part).
LIBOR,
as used in this part:
(1) Means the overnight and one-, three-, six-, and 12-month tenors of U.S. dollar LIBOR (formerly known as the London interbank offered rate) as administered by ICE Benchmark Administration Limited (or any predecessor or successor administrator thereof); and
(2) Does not include the one-week or two-month tenors of U.S. dollar LIBOR.
LIBOR contract
means any contract, agreement, indenture, organizational document, guarantee, mortgage, deed of trust, lease, security (whether representing debt or equity, including any interest in a corporation, a partnership, or a limited liability company), instrument, or other obligation or asset that, by its terms, uses LIBOR as a benchmark.
LIBOR replacement date
means the first London banking day after June 30, 2023, unless the Board determines that any LIBOR tenor will cease to be published or cease to be representative on a different date.
Relevant benchmark administrator
means:
(1) Bloomberg Index Services Limited with respect to Fallback Rate (SOFR);
(2) CME Group Benchmark Administration, Ltd. with respect to CME Term SOFR;
(3) Refinitiv Limited with respect to the Board-selected benchmark replacement for a LIBOR contract that is a consumer loan; and
(4) The Federal Reserve Bank of New York with respect to 30-day Average SOFR and 90-day Average SOFR.
Security
has the same meaning as in section 2(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77b(a)).
SOFR
means the Secured Overnight Financing Rate published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or any successor administrator.
State
means any state, commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, or the United States Virgin Islands.
§ 253.3
Applicability.
(a)
General requirement.
On and after the LIBOR replacement date, the applicable Board-selected benchmark replacement shall be the benchmark replacement for the following LIBOR contracts, except to the extent that an exception in paragraph (b) of this section applies:
(1) A LIBOR contract with one of the following characteristics as of the LIBOR replacement date, after giving effect to paragraph (a)(2) of this section:
(i) The LIBOR contract contains no fallback provisions;
(ii) The LIBOR contract contains fallback provisions that identify neither—
(A) A specific benchmark replacement; nor
(B) A determining person; or
(iii) The LIBOR contract contains fallback provisions that identify a determining person, but the determining person has not selected a benchmark replacement by the earlier of the LIBOR replacement date and the latest date for selecting a benchmark replacement according to the terms of the LIBOR contract, for any reason.
(2) For purposes of this part, on the LIBOR replacement date, any reference in any fallback provisions of a LIBOR contract to the following shall be disregarded as if not included in the fallback provisions of such LIBOR contract and shall be deemed null and void and without any force or effect:
(i) A benchmark replacement that is based in any way on any LIBOR value, except to account for the difference between LIBOR and the benchmark replacement; or
(ii) A requirement that a person (other than a benchmark administrator) conduct a poll, survey, or inquiries for quotes or information concerning interbank lending or deposit rates (including, but not limited to, Eurodollar deposit or lending rates).
(b)
Exceptions.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, this part shall not apply to—
(1) Any LIBOR contract that the parties have agreed in writing shall not be
subject to the Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act;
(2) Any LIBOR contract that contains fallback provisions that identify a benchmark replacement that is not based in any way on any LIBOR value (including the prime rate or the effective Federal Funds rate) after application of paragraph (a)(2) of this section; or
(3) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) or (a)(1)(iii) of this section, any LIBOR contract subject to paragraph (c) of this section as to which a determining person does not elect to use a Board-selected benchmark replacement pursuant to paragraph (c).
(c)
Selection of Board-selected benchmark replacement by determining person.
Except for any LIBOR contract described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a determining person may select the Board-selected benchmark replacement specified in § 253.4 as the benchmark replacement for a LIBOR contract. Any such selection shall be—
(1) Irrevocable;
(2) Made by the earlier of the LIBOR replacement date and the latest date for selecting a benchmark replacement according to the terms of the LIBOR contract; and
(3) Used in any determinations of the benchmark under or with respect to the LIBOR contract occurring on and after the LIBOR replacement date.
(d)
Other provisions of LIBOR contracts unchanged.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and in § 253.5, where the applicable Board-selected benchmark replacement becomes the benchmark replacement for a LIBOR contract on and after the LIBOR replacement date pursuant to paragraph (a) or (c) of this section, all other provisions of such contract shall not be altered or impaired and shall apply to such contract using the Board-selected benchmark replacement, including but not limited to:
(1) Any provision specifying the date for determining a benchmark, except in the case of derivative transactions, which are subject to § 253.4(a)(2), and Federal Home Loan Bank advances, which are subject to § 253.4(b)(3)(ii)(B);
(2) Any provision specifying rounding conventions for a benchmark;
(3) Any provision referencing LIBOR or any LIBOR value prior to the LIBOR replacement date (including any provision requiring a person to look back to a LIBOR value as of a date preceding the LIBOR replacement date);
(4) Any provision applying any cap, floor, modifier, or spread adjustment to which LIBOR had been subject pursuant to the terms of a LIBOR contract;
(5) Any provision of Federal consumer financial law that—
(i) Requires creditors to notify borrowers regarding a change-in-terms; or
(ii) Governs the reevaluation of rate increases on credit card accounts under open-ended (not home-secured) consumer credit plans; or
(6) Except as provided in 12 U.S.C. 5804(c), the rights or obligations of any person, or the authorities of any agency, under Federal consumer financial law, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 5481.
§ 253.4
Board-selected benchmark replacements.
(a)
Derivative transactions.
(1) A LIBOR contract subject to the requirements of this part that is a derivative transaction shall use the benchmark replacement identified as the “Fallback Rate (SOFR)” in the ISDA protocol (
see
appendix A to this part) for each day on which LIBOR would ordinarily be observed occurring on or after the LIBOR replacement date. For clarity, the reference to “spread relating to U.S. dollar LIBOR” in the definition of “Fallback Rate (SOFR)” in the ISDA protocol is equal to the applicable tenor spread adjustment identified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) The benchmark replacement used to calculate the payment due for the relevant calculation period shall be determined on the derivative transaction fallback observation day in respect of the day that, under the LIBOR contract, would have been used to determine the LIBOR-based rate that is being replaced or, if the Board-selected benchmark replacement in respect of that day is not available on the derivative transaction fallback observation day, the most recently available publication on the derivative transaction fallback observation day shall be used.
(b)
All other transactions.
On the LIBOR replacement date, a LIBOR contract subject to the requirements of this part that is not a derivative transaction shall use the following benchmark replacements:
(1) For a LIBOR contract that is not a consumer loan, an FHFA-regulated-entity contract, or a FFELP ABS—
(i) In place of overnight LIBOR, the benchmark replacement shall be SOFR plus the tenor spread adjustment identified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section; and
(ii) In place of one-, three-, six-, or 12-month tenors of LIBOR, the benchmark replacement shall be the corresponding one-, three-, six-, or 12-month CME Term SOFR plus the applicable tenor spread adjustment identified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) For a LIBOR contract that is a consumer loan—
(i) During the one-year period beginning on the LIBOR replacement date:
(A) In place of overnight LIBOR, the benchmark replacement shall be SOFR plus an amount that transitions linearly for each business day during that period from:
(
1
) The difference between SOFR and overnight LIBOR determined as of the day immediately before the LIBOR replacement date; to
(
2
) The tenor spread adjustment identified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section; or
(B) In place of the one-, three-, six-, or 12-month tenors of LIBOR, the benchmark replacement shall be the corresponding one-, three-, six-, or 12-month CME Term SOFR plus an amount that transitions linearly for each business day during that period from:
(
1
) The difference between the relevant CME Term SOFR and the relevant LIBOR tenor determined as of the day immediately before the LIBOR replacement date; to
(
2
) The applicable tenor spread adjustment identified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(ii) On the date one year after the LIBOR replacement date and thereafter:
(A) In place of overnight LIBOR, the benchmark replacement shall be SOFR plus the tenor spread adjustment identified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section; and
(B) In place of one-, three-, six-, or 12-month tenors of LIBOR, the benchmark replacement shall be the corresponding one-, three-, six-, or 12-month CME Term SOFR plus the applicable tenor spread adjustment identified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(iii) The rates published or provided by Refinitiv Limited as “USD IBOR Cash Fallbacks” for “Consumer” products shall be deemed equal to the rates identified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(3) For a LIBOR contract that is an FHFA-regulated-entity contract—
(i) For an FHFA-regulated-entity contract that is not a Federal Home Loan Bank advance—
(A) In place of overnight LIBOR, the benchmark replacement shall be SOFR plus the tenor spread adjustment identified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section; and
(B) In place of one-, three-, six-, or 12-month tenors of LIBOR, the benchmark replacement shall be the 30-day Average SOFR plus the applicable tenor spread adjustment identified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(ii) For an FHFA-regulated-entity contract that is a Federal Home Loan Bank advance—
(A) The benchmark replacement shall be the “Fallback Rate (SOFR)” in the ISDA protocol (
see
appendix A to this part) for each day on which LIBOR would ordinarily be observed occurring on or after the LIBOR replacement date. For clarity, the reference to “spread relating to U.S. dollar LIBOR” in the definition of “Fallback Rate (SOFR)” in the ISDA protocol is equal to the applicable tenor spread adjustment identified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(B) The benchmark replacement used to calculate the payment due for the relevant calculation period shall be determined on the derivative transaction fallback observation day in respect of the day that, under the LIBOR contract, would have been used to determine the LIBOR-based rate that is being replaced or, if the Board-selected benchmark replacement in respect of that day is not available on the derivative transaction fallback observation
day, the most recently available publication on the derivative transaction fallback observation day shall be used.
(4) For a LIBOR contract that is a FFELP ABS—
(i) In place of one-month LIBOR, the benchmark replacement shall be 30-day Average SOFR plus the tenor spread adjustment identified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section;
(ii) In place of three-month LIBOR, the benchmark shall be 90-day Average SOFR plus the tenor spread adjustment identified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section; and
(iii) In place of six- or 12-month tenors of LIBOR, the benchmark replacement shall be 30-day Average SOFR plus the tenor spread adjustment identified in paragraph (c)(4) or (5) of this section, as applicable.
(c)
Tenor spread adjustments.
The following tenor spread adjustments shall be included as part of the Board-selected benchmark replacements as indicated in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section:
(1) 0.00644 percent for overnight LIBOR;
(2) 0.11448 percent for one-month LIBOR;
(3) 0.26161 percent for three-month LIBOR;
(4) 0.42826 percent for six-month LIBOR; and
(5) 0.71513 percent for 12-month LIBOR.
§ 253.5
Benchmark replacement conforming changes.
(a)
Benchmark replacement conforming changes generally.
(1) If the Board-selected benchmark replacement becomes the benchmark replacement for a LIBOR contract pursuant to § 253.3(a) or (c), all applicable benchmark replacement conforming changes shall become an integral part of the LIBOR contract.
(2) Paragraph (b) of this section establishes specific benchmark replacement conforming changes. The Board may, in its discretion, publish additional benchmark replacement conforming changes by regulation or order.
(3) Solely with respect to any LIBOR contract that is not a consumer loan, a calculating person may make any additional technical, administrative, or operational changes, alterations, or modifications that, in that person's reasonable judgment, would be necessary or appropriate to permit the implementation, administration, and calculation of the Board-selected benchmark replacement under or with respect to a LIBOR contract after giving due consideration to any changes, alterations, or modifications otherwise required by the Board, without any requirement to obtain consent from any other person prior to the adoption of such benchmark replacement conforming changes.
(b)
Specified benchmark replacement conforming changes.
(1) Any reference to a specified source for LIBOR (such as a particular newspaper, website, or screen) shall be replaced with the publication of the applicable Board-selected benchmark replacement (inclusive or exclusive of the relevant tenor spread adjustment identified in § 253.4(c)) by either the relevant benchmark administrator for the applicable Board-selected benchmark replacement or any third party authorized by the relevant benchmark administrator to publish the applicable Board-selected benchmark replacement.
(2) Any reference to a particular time of day for determining LIBOR (such as 11:00 a.m. London time) shall be replaced with the standard publication time for the applicable Board-selected benchmark replacement (inclusive or exclusive of the relevant tenor spread adjustment identified in § 253.4(c)), as established by the relevant benchmark administrator.
(3) Any provision of a LIBOR contract requiring use of a combination (such as an average) of LIBOR values over a period of time that spans the LIBOR replacement date shall be modified to provide that the combination shall be calculated consistent with that contractual provision using:
(i) The applicable LIBOR for any date prior to the LIBOR replacement date; and
(ii) The applicable Board-selected benchmark replacement rate for any date on or following the LIBOR replacement date, respectively.
(4) Subject to § 253.4(a) and (b)(3)(ii), to the extent a Board-selected benchmark replacement is not available or published on a particular day indicated in the LIBOR contract as the determination date, the most recently available publication of the Board-selected benchmark replacement will apply.
§ 253.6
Preemption.
Pursuant to section 107 of the Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act, 12 U.S.C. 5806, this part supersedes any provision of any state or local law, statute, rule, regulation, or standard—
(a) Relating to the selection or use of a benchmark replacement or related conforming changes; or
(b) Expressly limiting the manner of calculating interest, including the compounding of interest, as that provision applies to the selection or use of a Board-selected benchmark replacement or benchmark replacement conforming changes.
§ 253.7
Continuity of contract and safe harbor.
(a) The provisions of section 105(a)-(d) of the Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act, 12 U.S.C. 5804(a)-(d), shall apply to any LIBOR contract for which the Board-selected benchmark replacement becomes the benchmark replacement pursuant to § 253.3(a) or (c).
(b) Nothing in this part is intended to alter or modify the availability or effect of the provisions of section 105(e) of the Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act, 12 U.S.C. 5804(e).
Pt. 253, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 253—ISDA Protocol
For ease of reference, the Board is republishing, with permission, the full text of the ISDA 2020 IBOR Fallbacks Protocol (ISDA protocol), published on October 23, 2020, by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. The full text of the ISDA protocol follows:

# ISDA 2020 IBOR Fallbacks Protocol

# Published on October 23, 2020

# By the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc.
The International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA) has published this ISDA 2020 IBOR Fallbacks Protocol (this Protocol) to enable parties to Protocol Covered Documents to amend the terms of each such Protocol Covered Document to (i) in respect of a Protocol Covered Document which incorporates, or references a rate as defined in, a Covered ISDA Definitions Booklet, include in the terms of such Protocol Covered Document either the terms of, or a particular defined term included in, the Supplement to the 2006 ISDA Definitions, finalized on October 23, 2020 and to be published by ISDA and effective on January 25, 2021 (the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement) and (ii) in respect of a Protocol Covered Document which otherwise references a Relevant IBOR, include in the terms of such Protocol Covered Document new fallbacks for that Relevant IBOR.
Accordingly, a party may adhere to this Protocol and be bound by its terms by completing and delivering a letter substantially in the form of Exhibit 1 to this Protocol (an Adherence Letter) to ISDA, as agent, as described below (each such party, an Adhering Party).

# 1. Adherence to and Effectiveness of the Protocol
(a) By adhering to this Protocol in the manner set forth in this paragraph 1, each Adhering Party agrees, in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants contained herein, that the terms of each Protocol Covered Document between such Adhering Party and any other Adhering Party will be amended in accordance with the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Attachment hereto.
(b) Adherence to this Protocol will be evidenced by the execution and online delivery, in accordance with this paragraph, to ISDA, as agent, of an Adherence Letter (in accordance with subparagraphs 1(b)(i) to 1(b)(iii) below). ISDA shall have the right, in its sole and absolute discretion, upon at least thirty calendar days' notice on the “ISDA 2020 IBOR Fallbacks Protocol” section of its website at
www.isda.org
(or by other suitable means), to designate a closing date of this Protocol (such closing date, the Cut-off Date). After the Cut-off Date, ISDA will not accept any further Adherence Letters to this Protocol.
(i) Each Adhering Party will access the “Protocols” section of the ISDA website at
www.isda.org
to enter information online that is required to generate its form of Adherence Letter and will submit payment of any applicable fee. Either by directly downloading the populated Adherence Letter from the Protocol system or upon receipt via email of the populated Adherence Letter, each Adhering Party will sign and upload the signed Adherence Letter as a PDF (portable document format) attachment into the Protocol system. Once the signed Adherence Letter has been approved and accepted by ISDA, such Adhering Party will receive an
email confirmation of the Adhering Party's adherence to this Protocol.
(ii) A conformed copy of each Adherence Letter containing, in place of each signature, the printed or typewritten name of each signatory will be published by ISDA so that it may be viewed by all Adhering Parties. Each Adhering Party agrees that, for evidentiary purposes, a conformed copy of an Adherence Letter certified by the General Counsel (or other appropriate officer) of ISDA will be deemed to be an original.
(iii) Each Adhering Party agrees that the determination of the date and time of acceptance of any Adherence Letter will be determined by ISDA in its absolute discretion. Any Adherence Letter which is dated and delivered to ISDA before the date on which this Protocol is published will be deemed to have been delivered on the date on which this Protocol is published.
(c) As between two Adhering Parties, the agreement to make the amendments contemplated by this Protocol, on the terms and conditions set forth in this Protocol, will be effective on the Implementation Date and that agreement will form part of each Protocol Covered Document from the later of the Implementation Date and the related Protocol Covered Document Date. The amendments contemplated by this Protocol shall be made on the later of (i) the Implementation Date and (ii) the Protocol Effective Date.
(A) The Protocol Effective Date with respect to a Protocol Covered Document shall be January 25, 2021.
(B) The Implementation Date with respect to any two Adhering Parties shall be the date of acceptance by ISDA, as agent, of an Adherence Letter (in accordance with paragraph 1(b) above) from the later of such two Adhering Parties to adhere except that:
(I) In respect of any Protocol Covered Document into which an Agent has entered on behalf of a Client, subject to paragraph 3(m) below, the Implementation Date shall be the date specified in subparagraph 3(g)(i)(A), subparagraph 3(g)(i)(B), subparagraph 3(g)(i)(C), paragraph 3(h), paragraph 3(i) or paragraph 3(j) below, as applicable; and
(II) In respect of any Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Document, subject to paragraph 3(m) below, the Implementation Date shall be the day specified in paragraph 3(l) below.
Acceptance by ISDA of a subsequent or revised Adherence Letter from either such Adhering Party will not have the effect of changing such Implementation Date.
(d) This Protocol is intended for use without negotiation, but without prejudice to any amendment, modification or waiver in respect of a Protocol Covered Document that the parties may otherwise effect in accordance with the terms of that Protocol Covered Document.
(i) In adhering to this Protocol, an Adhering Party may not specify additional provisions, conditions or limitations in its Adherence Letter.
(ii) Any purported adherence that ISDA, as agent, determines in good faith is not in compliance with this Protocol will be void and ISDA will inform the relevant party of such fact as soon as reasonably possible after making such determination.
(e) Each Adhering Party acknowledges and agrees that adherence to this Protocol is irrevocable, except that an Adhering Party may, after the Protocol Effective Date, deliver to ISDA, as agent, a notice substantially in the form of Exhibit 2 to this Protocol that is effective (determined pursuant to paragraph 3(f) below) on any Protocol Business Day (a Revocation Notice) to designate the next Revocation Date as the last date on which an Implementation Date can occur in respect of any Protocol Covered Document between the counterparty and such Adhering Party. Following the effective delivery of a Revocation Notice by an Adhering Party, this Protocol will not amend any Protocol Covered Document between that Adhering Party and another Adhering Party for which the Implementation Date would occur after the related Revocation Date.
(i) If an Agent adheres to this Protocol on behalf of a Client, then, if the Client effectively delivers a Revocation Notice in accordance with this paragraph 1(e), this Protocol will not amend any Protocol Covered Document between another Adhering Party and that Client entered into by that Client itself or by the Agent on behalf of that Client or any Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Document (if applicable), in each case, for which the Implementation Date would occur after the Revocation Date designated as the last date on which an Implementation Date can occur in the Client's Revocation Notice.
(ii) If an Agent delivers a Revocation Notice in accordance with this paragraph 1(e) on behalf of a Client and the Client separately adheres to this Protocol directly rather than through the agency of an Agent, then the Revocation Notice delivered by the Agent will not prevent an Implementation Date from occurring after the Revocation Date in respect of any Protocol Covered Document into which the Client has entered with another Adhering Party (including through the Agent).
(iii) Subparagraph 1(e)(i), subparagraph 1(e)(ii) and subparagraph 1(e)(iii) are without prejudice to any amendment effected pursuant to this Protocol to any Protocol Covered Document between two Adhering Parties for which the Implementation Date occurred on or before the day on which that Revocation Date occurs or is deemed to occur, regardless of the date on which such Protocol Covered Document is entered into, and any such
amendment shall be effective notwithstanding the occurrence or deemed occurrence of such Revocation Date.
(iv) Each Revocation Notice must be delivered by the means specified in paragraph 3(f) below.
(v) Each Adhering Party agrees that, for evidentiary purposes, a conformed copy of a Revocation Notice certified by the General Counsel or an appropriate officer of ISDA will be deemed to be an original.
(vi) Any purported revocation that ISDA, as agent, determines in good faith is not in compliance with this paragraph 1(e) will be void and ISDA will inform the relevant party of such fact as soon as reasonably possible after making such determination.

# 2. Representations and Undertakings
(a) As of the later of (i) the date on which an Adhering Party adheres to this Protocol in accordance with paragraph 1 above (which will be the date of acceptance by ISDA of an Adherence Letter from that Adhering Party (in accordance with paragraph 1(b) above)) and (ii) the Protocol Covered Document Date, such Adhering Party represents to each other Adhering Party with which it has entered into a Protocol Covered Document (which representations will be deemed to be repeated on the Protocol Effective Date and the Implementation Date if one or both such dates are later than the date on which such Adhering Party adheres to this Protocol) each of the following matters:
(A)
Status.
It is, if relevant, duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation and, if relevant under such laws, in good standing or, if it otherwise represents its status in or pursuant to the Protocol Covered Document, has such status.
(B)
Powers.
It has the power to execute and deliver the Adherence Letter and to perform its obligations under the Adherence Letter and the Protocol Covered Document as amended by the Adherence Letter and this Protocol (including the Attachment hereto), and has taken all necessary action to authorize such execution, delivery and performance.
(C)
No Violation or Conflict.
Such execution, delivery and performance do not violate or conflict with any law applicable to it, any provision of its constitutional documents, any order or judgment of any court or other agency of government applicable to it or any of its assets or any contractual restriction binding on or affecting it or any of its assets.
(D)
Consents.
All governmental and other consents that are required to have been obtained by it with respect to the Adherence Letter and the Protocol Covered Document, as amended by the Adherence Letter and this Protocol (including the Attachment hereto), have been obtained and are in full force and effect and all conditions of any such consents have been complied with.
(E)
Obligations Binding.
Its obligations under the Adherence Letter and the Protocol Covered Document, as amended by the Adherence Letter and this Protocol (including the Attachment hereto), constitute its legal, valid and binding obligations, enforceable in accordance with their respective terms (subject to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject, as to enforceability, to equitable principles of general application (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law)).
(F)
Credit Support.
Its adherence to this Protocol and any amendment contemplated by this Protocol (including the Attachment hereto) will not, in and of itself, adversely affect the enforceability, effectiveness or validity of any obligations owed, whether by it or by any third party, under any Credit Support Document or Third Party Credit Support Document in respect of its obligations relating to any Protocol Covered Document as amended by the Adherence Letter and this Protocol (including the Attachment hereto).
(b) Each Adhering Party agrees with each other Adhering Party with which it has entered into a Protocol Covered Document that each of the foregoing representations will be deemed, in the case of a Protocol Covered Document that is an ISDA Master Agreement, to be a representation for purposes of Section 5(a)(iv) and in the case of any other Protocol Covered Document, to be a representation for purposes of any analogous provisions of each such Protocol Covered Document, that is made by each Adhering Party as of the later of (i) the date on which such Adhering Party adheres to this Protocol in accordance with paragraph 1 above and (ii) the Protocol Covered Document Date and which is deemed repeated on the Protocol Effective Date and the Implementation Date if one or both such dates are later than the date on which such Adhering Party adheres to this Protocol.
(c)
Undertakings in respect of Protocol Covered Documents with Third Party Credit Support Documents.
With respect to Protocol Covered Documents with Third Party Credit Support Documents that expressly require the consent, approval, agreement, authorization or other action of a Third Party to be obtained, each Adhering Party whose obligations under such arrangements are secured, guaranteed or otherwise supported by such Third Party undertakes to each other Adhering Party with which it has entered into such arrangements that it has obtained the consent (including by way of paragraph 2(d) below), approval, agreement, authorization or other action of such Third Party and that it will, upon demand, deliver evidence of
such consent, approval, agreement, authorization or other action to such other Adhering Party.
(d)
Deemed Third Party Consent.
Each Adhering Party which is also a Third Party in relation to a Third Party Credit Support Document is hereby deemed to have consented to the amendments imposed by this Protocol on the Protocol Covered Document supported by such Third Party Credit Support Document.

# 3. Miscellaneous
(a)
Entire Agreement; Restatement; Survival.
(i) This Protocol constitutes the entire agreement and understanding of the Adhering Parties with respect to its subject matter and supersedes all oral communication and prior writings (except as otherwise provided herein) with respect thereto. Each Adhering Party acknowledges that in adhering to this Protocol it has not relied on any oral or written representation, warranty or other assurance (except as provided for or referred to elsewhere in this Protocol or in the Attachment) and waives all rights and remedies which might otherwise be available to it in respect thereof, except that nothing in this Protocol will limit or exclude any liability of an Adhering Party for fraud.
(ii) Except for any amendment deemed to be made pursuant to this Protocol in respect of any Protocol Covered Document, all terms and conditions of each Protocol Covered Document will continue in full force and effect in accordance with its provisions as in effect immediately prior to the date on which it first becomes subject to this Protocol. Except as explicitly stated in this Protocol, nothing herein shall constitute a waiver or release of any rights of any Adhering Party under any Protocol Covered Document to which such Adhering Party is a party or a provider or recipient of credit support. This Protocol will, with respect to its subject matter, survive, and any amendments made or deemed to be made pursuant to this Protocol will form a part of each Protocol Covered Document between the Adhering Parties, notwithstanding any statements in a Protocol Covered Document to the effect that such Protocol Covered Document constitutes the entire agreement and understanding between the parties to such Protocol Covered Document with respect to the subject of such Protocol Covered Document.
(b)
Exclusion of Agreements.
Notwithstanding anything in paragraph 1(a) above, with respect to any agreement between Adhering Parties, if the parties to such agreement have expressly stated in such agreement or otherwise agreed in writing that this Protocol shall not apply, then such agreement shall not be a Protocol Covered Document.
(c)
Amendments.
An amendment, modification or waiver in respect of the matters contemplated by this Protocol (including, for the avoidance of doubt, any amendment, modification or waiver relating to the alignment of a Protocol Covered Document with an instrument for which such Protocol Covered Document is intended to serve as a hedge (or
vice versa
)) will only be effective in respect of a Protocol Covered Document if made in accordance with the terms of the Protocol Covered Document and then only with effect between the parties to that Protocol Covered Document.
(d)
Headings.
The headings used in this Protocol and any Adherence Letter are for convenience of reference only and are not to affect the construction of or to be taken into consideration in interpreting this Protocol or any Adherence Letter.
(e)
Governing Law.
This Protocol and each Adherence Letter will, as between two Adhering Parties and in respect of each Protocol Covered Document between them, be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of England and Wales, without reference to choice of law doctrine,
provided
that the amendments to each Protocol Covered Document shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law specified to govern that Protocol Covered Document and otherwise in accordance with the applicable choice of law doctrine.
(f)
Notices.
Any Revocation Notice must be in writing and delivered as a locked PDF (portable document format) attachment to an email to ISDA at
isda@isda.org
and will be deemed effectively delivered on the date it is delivered unless, on the date of that delivery, ISDA's London office is closed or that communication is delivered after 5:00 p.m., London time, in which case that communication will be deemed effectively delivered on the next day ISDA's London office is open.
(g)
Ability of an Agent to Adhere to the Protocol on Behalf of a Client.
(i) An Agent may adhere to this Protocol:
(A) On behalf of all Clients represented by such Agent (in which case, such Agent need not identify each Client through an online platform available generally to the industry, including, for example, the ISDA Amend platform provided by IHS Markit (a Platform) and, in respect of any Protocol Covered Document into which the Agent has entered on behalf of those Clients, the Implementation Date shall be the date of acceptance by ISDA of an Adherence Letter (in accordance with paragraph 1(b) above) from the later of the two Adhering Parties to adhere);
(B) On behalf of only those Clients represented by such Agent that such Agent specifically names or identifies through a Platform and, in respect of any Protocol Covered Document into which the Agent has entered on behalf of any such Client, the Implementation Date shall be the date shown on the Platform as the date on which the Agent communicates the name or identity of that
Client to the other Adhering Party (or, if later, the date of acceptance by ISDA, as agent, of an Adherence Letter from the other Adhering Party); or
(C) On behalf of all Clients represented by such Agent, excluding any Clients whose name or identity the Agent communicates to the other Adhering Party through a Platform as a Client excluded from adherence, subject to subparagraph 3(h)(i) below, on or before the date of acceptance by ISDA of an Adherence Letter (in accordance with paragraph 1(b) above) from the later of the two Adhering Parties to adhere (in which case, such Agent need not identify each Client on whose behalf it adheres through a Platform). In respect of any Protocol Covered Document into which the Agent has entered on behalf of any Client whose name or identity has not been communicated to the other Adhering Party through a Platform as a Client excluded from adherence, the Implementation Date shall (subject to subparagraph 3(h)(i) below) be the date of acceptance by ISDA of an Adherence Letter (in accordance with paragraph 1(b) above) from the later of the two Adhering Parties to adhere. If the Agent has not communicated the name or identity of any Clients excluded from adherence to the other Adhering Party through a Platform on or before the date of acceptance by ISDA of an Adherence Letter (in accordance with paragraph 1(b) above) from the later of the two Adhering Parties to adhere, then (subject to subparagraph 3(h)(i) below) in respect of any Protocol Covered Document into which the Agent has entered on behalf of any Client, the Implementation Date shall be the date of acceptance by ISDA of an Adherence Letter (in accordance with paragraph 1(b) above) from the later of the two Adhering Parties to adhere, and, in each case, if the Agent elects for Option 2 in its Adherence Letter, on behalf of those Clients whose name or identity the Agent communicates to the other Adhering Party through a Platform as being a Client in respect of which subparagraph 3(g)(ii)(B)(II) below applies (in which case, the Implementation Date in respect of any Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Document shall be as specified in subparagraph 3(l) below).
(ii) In each case, the Agent can elect to apply the amendments in this Protocol to either:
(A) In respect of all those Clients on whose behalf the Agent adheres pursuant to subparagraph 3(g)(i)(A), subparagraph 3(g)(i)(B) or subparagraph 3(g)(i)(C) above, each Protocol Covered Document into which the Agent has entered on behalf of those Clients (Option 1); or
(B) In respect of all those Clients on whose behalf the Agent adheres pursuant to subparagraph 3(g)(i)(A), subparagraph 3(g)(i)(B) or subparagraph 3(g)(i)(C) above, each Protocol Covered Document into which the Agent has entered on behalf of those Clients and (II) in respect of those Clients on whose behalf the Agent adheres whose name or identity the Agent communicates to the other Adhering Party through a Platform as being a Client in respect of which this subparagraph 3(g)(ii)(B)(II) applies, each Protocol Covered Document into which the Agent did not enter on behalf of those Clients but which the Agent has the authority from the relevant Client to amend (for the purpose of this Protocol, documents described in this subparagraph 3(g)(ii)(B)(II) being
Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Documents
and the date shown on the Platform as the date on which the Agent communicates the name or identity of the Client to the other Adhering Party for the purposes of this subparagraph 3(g)(ii)(B)(II) being the
Identification Date
) (Option 2). If an Agent adheres to this Protocol and elects for Option 2, in respect of any Client on whose behalf the Agent adheres pursuant to subparagraph 3(g)(i)(A), subparagraph 3(g)(i)(B) or subparagraph 3(g)(i)(C) above whose name or identity is communicated to the other Adhering Party as being a Client in respect of which subparagraph 3(g)(ii)(B)(II) above applies, Protocol Covered Documents referred to in both subparagraph 3(g)(ii)(B)(I) and subparagraph 3(g)(ii)(B)(II) above will be amended in accordance with the terms of this Protocol. For the avoidance of doubt, any Protocol Covered Document into which the Agent did not enter on behalf of a Client and which the Agent does not have the authority from the relevant Client to amend will not constitute a Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Document.
(iii) The election for Option 1 or Option 2 shall be made in the Adherence Letter. Adherence by the Agent shall only be effective with respect to those Protocol Covered Documents described in Option 1 or Option 2, as applicable, and as elected in the Adherence Letter (subject to, if the Agent elects for Option 2 and with respect to Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Documents,
(A) Subparagraph 3(g)(iv) and paragraph 3(l) below and (B) the Agent communicating the name or identity of those Clients on behalf of which it is amending Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Documents to the other Adhering Party, in accordance with subparagraph 3(g)(ii)(B)(II) above (regardless of whether the Agent adheres to this Protocol using the approach described in subparagraph 3(g)(i)(A), subparagraph 3(g)(i)(B) or subparagraph 3(g)(i)(C) above)).
(iv) If an Agent adheres to this Protocol and elects for Option 2 in its Adherence Letter, then, in respect of any Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Document only, the Agent shall, as soon as reasonably practicable following a written request (including by email) from the other Adhering Party, and in any event by no later than the end of
the fifteenth calendar day following such request, provide reasonable evidence satisfactory to the other Adhering Party in its sole discretion supporting the Agent's authority to amend such documents, provided that:
(A) If, prior to the date of acceptance by ISDA of an Adherence Letter (in accordance with paragraph 1(b) above) from the later of the Agent and the other Adhering Party to adhere, the Agent has delivered to the other Adhering Party a copy, or relevant extracts, of the agreement (such as an investment management agreement) pursuant to which the relevant Client appoints the Agent to act on its behalf and authorizes the Agent to make the amendments contemplated by this Protocol to the Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Document (whether or not such authority expressly refers to this Protocol), then, subject to the other Adhering Party's right to request (which request must be in writing (which includes by email)) an additional copy of that agreement or those relevant extracts (which request shall be made no later than the end of the fifteenth calendar day following the later of the Identification Date and the date of acceptance by ISDA, as agent, of an Adherence Letter from that other Adhering Party), the Agent need not provide any further evidence supporting its authority to amend that Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Document on behalf of that Client for the purposes of this Protocol and, in respect of that Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Document, shall be deemed to have provided reasonable evidence satisfactory to the other Adhering Party on (I) if the other Adhering Party does not request an additional copy of that agreement or those relevant extracts, the end of the fifteenth calendar day following the later of the Identification Date and the date of acceptance by ISDA, as agent, of an Adherence Letter from that other Adhering Party or
(II) If the other Adhering Party does request an additional copy of that agreement or those relevant extracts, the day on which that additional copy is delivered to the other Adhering Party;
(B) If the other Adhering Party does not request such evidence by the end of the fifteenth calendar day following the later of the Identification Date and the date of acceptance by ISDA, as agent, of an Adherence Letter from that other Adhering Party, then the Agent shall be deemed to have provided reasonable evidence satisfactory to the other Adhering Party at the end of that fifteenth calendar day;
(C) Subject to subparagraph 3(g)(iv)(A) above, following the delivery of any such evidence by the Agent to the other Adhering Party, unless the other Adhering Party notifies the Agent to the contrary by the end of the fifteenth calendar day following the day on which such evidence is delivered, the Agent shall be deemed to have provided reasonable evidence satisfactory to the other Adhering Party at the end of that fifteenth calendar day;
(D) If: (I)
(I) following written request from the other Adhering Party, the Agent does not provide the other Adhering Party with any evidence supporting its authority to amend such documents or, if subparagraph 3(g)(iv)(A) above applies, with an additional copy of the relevant agreement or extracts, by the end of the fifteenth calendar day following such written request; or
(II) subject to subparagraph 3(g)(iv)(A) above, the other Adhering Party determines that the evidence provided by the Agent is not satisfactory and notifies the Agent accordingly by the end of the fifteenth calendar day following the day on which such evidence is delivered,
Then request for evidence and the Agent's right to provide such evidence and, in respect of any such evidence, subject to subparagraph 3(g)(iv)(C) above, the Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Document shall not be amended by this Protocol; and
(E) Any failure by the Agent to provide the other Adhering Party with such evidence shall not give rise to a Potential Event of Default or an Event of Default (each as defined in the ISDA Master Agreement), or any similar event, under that Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Document or other contractual right of action under this Protocol or that Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Document.
(v) If an Agent adheres to this Protocol and specifically names or identifies one or more Clients
(A) On whose behalf it is adhering (as contemplated in subparagraph 3(g)(i)(B) above), (B) which are excluded from adherence (as contemplated in subparagraph 3(g)(i)(C) above), and/or (C) on whose behalf it is amending Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Documents (as contemplated in subparagraph 3(g)(ii)(B)(II) above), as applicable, through a Platform, that Agent shall provide the legal entity identifier (LEI) of each such Client through such Platform.
(vi) If an Agent adheres to this Protocol on behalf of a Client by executing and delivering an Adherence Letter on behalf of such Client in accordance with paragraph 1 above and this paragraph 3(g), references to the Adhering Party for purposes of this Protocol (including the Attachment hereto) and the Adherence Letter shall be interpreted to refer to such Client. If, in respect of a Client, more than one Adherence Letter is accepted by ISDA in accordance with paragraph 1(b) above (by virtue of the Client adhering on its own behalf and one or more Agents adhering on behalf of that Client), then:
(A) If ISDA accepts an Adherence Letter from an Agent on behalf of a Client after it
accepts an Adherence Letter from that Client, any document entered into by:
(I) That Agent acting on behalf of that Client; or
(II) If the Agent elects for Option 2 in its Adherence Letter, that Client on its own behalf but which the Agent has the authority from the relevant Client to amend, in each case, which has a Protocol Covered Document Date prior to:
(1) The Protocol Effective Date; or
(2) If later, the date of acceptance by ISDA, as agent, of an Adherence Letter from that Agent (or, if later, the date of acceptance by ISDA, as agent, of an Adherence Letter from the other Adhering Party), will be deemed to have “a Protocol Covered Document Date prior to the Protocol Effective Date (or, if later, the date of acceptance by ISDA, as agent, of an Adherence Letter (in accordance with paragraph 1(b) above) from the later of the two Adhering Parties to adhere)” for the purposes of the definitions of Protocol Covered Confirmation, Protocol Covered Credit Support Document and Protocol Covered Master Agreement below; and
(B) If ISDA accepts an Adherence Letter from a Client after it accepts an Adherence Letter from an Agent on behalf of that Client, any document entered into by the Client, whether directly or through the agency of an Agent, which has a Protocol Covered Document Date prior to:
(I) The Protocol Effective Date; or if later, the date of acceptance by ISDA, as agent, of an Adherence Letter from that Client (or, if later, the date of acceptance by ISDA, as agent, of an Adherence Letter from the other Adhering Party), will be deemed to have “a Protocol Covered Document Date prior to the Protocol Effective Date (or, if later, the date of acceptance by ISDA, as agent, of an Adherence Letter (in accordance with paragraph 1(b) above) from the later of the two Adhering Parties to adhere)” for the purposes of the definitions of Protocol Covered Confirmation, Protocol Covered Credit Support Document and Protocol Covered Master Agreement below.
(vii) If an Agent adheres to this Protocol on behalf of a Client, then as of the later of (A) the date on which such Agent adheres to this Protocol in accordance with paragraph 1 above and (B) the Protocol Covered Document Date, such Agent represents to each Adhering Party (I) with which it has entered into a Protocol Covered Document on behalf of such Client or (II) which is a party to any Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Document (which representation will be deemed to be repeated on the Protocol Effective Date and on the Implementation Date if one or both such dates are later than the date on which such Agent adheres to this Protocol) that it has, as at the relevant Implementation Date, all necessary authority to enter into the Adherence Letter on behalf of such Client. In respect of any Client referred to in paragraph 3(h), paragraph 3(i), paragraph 3(j) or paragraph 3(k) below, the Agent represents that it has, as at the relevant Implementation Date, all necessary authority to apply the terms of the Adherence Letter to such Client.
(h)
Clients Added to an Agent Protocol Covered Document after the date of acceptance by ISDA of an Adherence Letter from the later of the Agent and the other Adhering Party to adhere.
(i) Subject to subparagraph 3(h)(ii) below, in respect of any Client added to an Agent Protocol Covered Document between an Agent and an Adhering Party after the date of acceptance by ISDA of an Adherence Letter (in accordance with paragraph 1(b) above) from the later of the Agent and the other Adhering Party to adhere (a New Client), the Agent and such Adhering Party agree that the terms of such Agent Protocol Covered Document as between such Adhering Party and any New Client will be subject to the amendments effected by this Protocol and as between the Adhering Party and the New Client the Implementation Date shall be the date on which the New Client is added to the Agent Protocol Covered Document, unless otherwise agreed between such Agent and such Adhering Party (which agreement may, if the Agent adheres to this Protocol using the approach in subparagraph 3(g)(i)(C) above, be reached by the Agent communicating to the other Adhering Party through a Platform, at the time the New Client is added to the Agent Protocol Covered Document, that the New Client is excluded from adherence).
(ii) If an Agent adheres to this Protocol using the approach described in subparagraph 3(g)(i)(B) above and therefore specifically names or identifies one or more Clients on whose behalf it is adhering, then in order for the terms of an Agent Protocol Covered Document as between an Adhering Party and any New Client to be subject to the amendments effected by this Protocol, the Agent shall communicate the identity of each New Client (including the legal entity identifier (LEI)) to the other Adhering Party which is a party to the Agent Protocol Covered Document to which the New Client is added through a Platform and, as between the other Adhering Party and that New Client, the Implementation Date shall be the date shown on the Platform as the date on which the Agent communicates the identity of that New Client to the other Adhering Party through that Platform.
(i)
Clients Added to an Agent's List of Identified In-Scope Clients after the date of Acceptance by ISDA of the Agent's Adherence Letter.
If an Agent adheres to this Protocol using the approach described in subparagraph 3(g)(i)(B) above and therefore specifically names or identifies one or more Clients on
whose behalf it is adhering, then for the purposes of subparagraph 3(g)(ii)(A) or 3(g)(ii)(B)(I) above, as applicable, it may communicate the name or identity of additional Clients on whose behalf it is adhering (through a Platform) to another Adhering Party after the date of acceptance by ISDA, as agent, of its Adherence Letter and, as between that other Adhering Party and the additional Client, the Implementation Date shall be the date shown on the Platform as the date on which the Agent communicates the identity of that additional Client to the other Adhering Party through that Platform for those purposes (or, if later, the date of acceptance by ISDA, as agent, of an Adherence Letter from that other Adhering Party), unless otherwise agreed between such Agent and such Adhering Party.
(j)
Clients Removed from an Agent's List of Excluded Clients after the date of Acceptance by ISDA of the Agent's Adherence Letter.
If an Agent adheres to this Protocol using the approach described in subparagraph 3(g)(i)(C) above and therefore specifically names or identifies one or more Clients as excluded from adherence, then for the purposes of subparagraph 3(g)(ii)(A) or 3(g)(ii)(B)(I) above, as applicable, the Agent may, after the date of acceptance by ISDA, as agent, of its Adherence Letter, remove one or more of those Clients from its list of excluded Clients through a Platform and, as between any other Adhering Party and that Client, the Implementation Date shall be the date shown on the Platform as the date on which the Agent communicates to the other Adhering Party that the Client is removed from the list of excluded Clients (or, if later, the date of acceptance by ISDA, as agent, of an Adherence Letter from that other Adhering Party), unless otherwise agreed between such Agent and such Adhering Party.
(k)
Clients Added to an Agent's List of Clients in respect of which subparagraph 3(g)(ii)(B)(II) above applies.
If an Agent adheres to this Protocol, elects for Option 2 in its Adherence Letter and therefore specifically names or identifies one or more Clients in respect of which subparagraph 3(g)(ii)(B)(II) above applies, then it may name or identify additional Clients in respect of which subparagraph 3(g)(ii)(B)(II) above applies (through a Platform) after the date of acceptance by ISDA, as agent, of its Adherence Letter.
(l)
Authority to amend Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Documents.
If an Agent adheres to this Protocol and elects for Option 2 (as described in subparagraph 3(g)(ii) above), then, in respect of each Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Document, the Implementation Date shall be the day on which the Agent is deemed to have provided evidence supporting the Agent's authority to amend such Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Document to the other Adhering Party pursuant to subparagraph 3(g)(iv) above and, for the purposes of subparagraph 3(g)(iii) above, with respect to such Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Documents only, the Agent's adherence will be deemed effective on that day.
(m)
Implementation Date if both an Agent and a Client adhere to this Protocol or if more than one Agent adheres for a Client.
If an Agent adheres to this Protocol and, in respect of a particular Client and a Protocol Covered Document into which the Agent has entered on behalf of that Client or a Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Document, there is, pursuant to the terms of this Protocol, more than one Implementation Date, then, notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Protocol, the Implementation Date shall be the first of those dates to occur.
(n)
Adhering Party that is an Agent with respect to a Protocol Covered Document.
An Adhering Party that executes a Protocol Covered Document (including an annex thereto) as agent with respect to that Protocol Covered Document, shall not for purposes of this Protocol be considered to be a party to or to have entered into such Protocol Covered Document solely by acting as agent with respect to that Protocol Covered Document except as expressly provided therein.

# 4. Definitions
References in this Protocol and the Attachment to the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Additional Credit Support Document
means the documents (which, for the avoidance of doubt, shall be deemed to include any annexes or appendices thereto) set out in Part 2 of the Additional Documents Annex to this Protocol.
Additional Master Agreement
means the documents (which, for the avoidance of doubt, shall be deemed to include any annexes or appendices thereto) set out in Part 1 of the Additional Documents Annex to this Protocol.
Adherence Letter
has the meaning given to such term in the introductory paragraphs hereof.
Adhering Party
has the meaning given to such term in the introductory paragraphs hereof, as construed in accordance with subparagraph 3(g)(vi) above where relevant.
Agent
means an entity that enters into a Protocol Covered Document (or which has the authority to amend a Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Document) and executes and delivers an Adherence Letter with respect to this Protocol on behalf of, and as agent for, one or more Clients. With respect to paragraph 3(h) above, Agent also means an entity that enters into a Protocol Covered Document and executes and delivers an Adherence Letter pursuant to subparagraph 3(g)(i) above solely for purposes of amending
such agreements to which New Clients may be added under paragraph 3(h) above.
Agent Protocol Covered Document
means any Protocol Covered Document signed by the Agent on behalf of one or more Clients prior to the Protocol Effective Date (or, if later, the date of acceptance by ISDA, as agent, of an Adherence Letter (in accordance with paragraph 1(b) above) from the later of the Agent and the other Adhering Party to adhere), including any agreement that is signed as an umbrella agreement by an Agent and an Adhering Party prior to the Protocol Effective Date (or, if later, the date of acceptance by ISDA, as agent, of an Adherence Letter (in accordance with paragraph 1(b) above) from the later of the Agent and the other Adhering Party to adhere) which would be a Protocol Covered Document but for the absence of any underlying Client which is an Adhering Party.
Client
means, with respect to an Agent, a client, investor, fund, account and/or other principal on whose behalf the Agent acts.
Confirmation
means, in respect of a transaction, one or more documents or other confirming evidence exchanged between the parties or otherwise effective for the purpose of confirming or evidencing the transaction.
Covered ISDA Definitions Booklet
means each of the 2006 ISDA Definitions, the 2000 ISDA Definitions, the 1998 ISDA Euro Definitions, the 1998 Supplement to the 1991 ISDA Definitions and the 1991 ISDA Definitions, each as published by ISDA.
Credit Support Document
means, in respect of an Adhering Party and a Protocol Covered Document, any document in effect on the Implementation Date, which by its terms secures, guarantees or otherwise supports such Adhering Party's obligations under such Protocol Covered Document from time to time, whether or not such document is specified as such therein or in the Protocol Covered Document.
Cut-off Date
has the meaning given to such term in paragraph 1(b) above.
IBOR Fallbacks Supplement
has the meaning given to such term in the introductory paragraphs hereof.
Identification Date
has the meaning given to such term in subparagraph 3(g)(ii)(B)(II) above.
Implementation Date
has the meaning given to such term in subparagraph 1(c)(B) above.
ISDA
has the meaning given to such term in the introductory paragraphs hereof.
ISDA Credit Support Document
means each of the following documents:
(a) 1994 ISDA Credit Support Annex (Bilateral Form; ISDA Agreements Subject to New York Law Only);
(b) 1995 ISDA Credit Support Annex (Bilateral Form—Transfer; ISDA Agreements Subject to English law);
(c) 1995 ISDA Credit Support Deed (Bilateral Form—Security Interest; ISDA Agreements Subject to English Law);
(d) 1995 ISDA Credit Support Annex (Bilateral Form—Loan and Pledge; Security Interest Subject to Japanese Law);
(e) 1995 ISDA Credit Support Annex (Bilateral Form—Transfer; ISDA Agreement Subject to French Law);
(f) 1995 ISDA Credit Support Annex (Bilateral Form—Transfer; ISDA Agreement Subject to Irish Law);
(g) 2008 ISDA Credit Support Annex (Loan/Japanese Pledge);
(h) 2013 Standard Credit Support Annex (New York Law);
(i) 2013 Standard Credit Support Annex (English Law);
(j) 2014 Standard Credit Support Annex (New York Law—Multicurrency Settlement);
(k) 2014 Standard Credit Support Annex (English Law—Multicurrency Settlement);
(l) 2014 ISDA Korean Law Credit Support Annex (Bilateral Form—Loan and Pledge; Credit Support Annex Subject to Korean Law);
(m) 2016 Credit Support Annex for Variation Margin (VM) (Bilateral Form; ISDA Agreements Subject to New York Law Only), including any such form entered into between the Parties pursuant to the ISDA 2016 Variation Margin Protocol;
(n) 2016 Credit Support Annex for Variation Margin (VM) (Bilateral Form—Transfer; ISDA Agreements Subject to English Law), including any such form entered into between the Parties pursuant to the ISDA 2016 Variation Margin Protocol;
(o) 2016 Credit Support Annex for Variation Margin (VM) (Bilateral Form—Loan; ISDA Agreements Subject to Japanese Law), including any such form entered into between the Parties pursuant to the ISDA 2016 Variation Margin Protocol;
(p) 2016 Credit Support Annex for Variation Margin (VM) (Bilateral Form—Transfer; ISDA Agreements Subject to French Law); or
(q) 2016 Credit Support Annex for Variation Margin (VM) (Bilateral Form—Transfer; ISDA Agreements Subject to Irish Law).
ISDA Master Agreement
means an ISDA 2002 Master Agreement, an ISDA 2002 Master Agreement (French law), an ISDA 2002 Master Agreement (Irish law), a 1992 ISDA Master Agreement (Multicurrency—Cross Border), a 1992 ISDA Master Agreement (Local Currency—Single Jurisdiction), a 1987 ISDA Interest Rate Swap Agreement or a 1987 ISDA Interest Rate and Currency Exchange Agreement, in each case as published by ISDA.
Master Agreement
means an agreement which may be an ISDA Master Agreement or an Additional Master Agreement that has been entered into (a) by execution by the parties thereto (whether directly or through
the agency of an Agent) or (b) by execution by the parties thereto (whether directly or through the agency of an Agent) of a Confirmation pursuant to which a party is deemed to have entered into an ISDA Master Agreement or an Additional Master Agreement with the other party.
New Client
has the meaning given to such term in paragraph 3(h)(i) above.
Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Documents
has the meaning given to such term in subparagraph 3(g)(ii)(B)(II) above.
Platform
has the meaning given to such term in paragraph 3(g)(i)(A) above.
Protocol
has the meaning given to such term in the introductory paragraphs hereof.
Protocol Business Day
means a day following the Protocol Effective Date on which commercial banks and foreign exchange markets are generally open to settle payments in both London and New York.
Protocol Covered Confirmation
means, subject to subparagraph 3(g)(vi) above, a Confirmation which is entered into between two Adhering Parties (whether directly or through the agency of an Agent and, if through the agency of an Agent, whether executed by that Agent or by an entity on behalf of that Agent), has a Protocol Covered Document Date prior to the Protocol Effective Date (or, if later, the date of acceptance by ISDA, as agent, of an Adherence Letter (in accordance with paragraph 1(b) above) from the later of the two Adhering Parties to adhere) and:
(a) supplements, forms part of and is subject to, or is otherwise governed by, a Master Agreement and incorporates a Covered ISDA Definitions Booklet;
(b) supplements, forms part of and is subject to, or is otherwise governed by, a Master Agreement and references a Relevant IBOR “as defined” in, or otherwise provides that the Relevant IBOR has the meaning given in, a Covered ISDA Definitions Booklet (regardless of whether such Covered ISDA Definitions Booklet is incorporated in full in that Confirmation); and/or
(c) supplements, forms part of and is subject to, or is otherwise governed by, a Master Agreement and references a Relevant IBOR, howsoever defined.
Protocol Covered Credit Support Document
1
means, subject to subparagraph 3(g)(vi) above, any ISDA Credit Support Document or Additional Credit Support Document which is entered into between two Adhering Parties (whether directly or through the agency of an Agent and, if through the agency of an Agent, whether executed by that Agent or by an entity on behalf of that Agent), has a Protocol Covered Document Date prior to the Protocol Effective Date (or, if later, the date of acceptance by ISDA, as agent, of an Adherence Letter (in accordance with paragraph 1(b) above) from the later of the two Adhering Parties to adhere) and:
(a) Incorporates a Covered ISDA Definitions Booklet;
(b) References a Relevant IBOR “as defined” in, or otherwise provides that the Relevant IBOR has the meaning given in, a Covered ISDA Definitions Booklet (regardless of whether such Covered ISDA Definitions Booklet is incorporated in full in that ISDA Credit Support Document or Additional Credit Support Document); and/or
(c) References a Relevant IBOR, howsoever defined.
1
Note that the parties to any credit support document that is amended by the Protocol should consider whether they need to take any steps to reconfirm or retake any security or otherwise satisfy any formalities under or in connection with the relevant credit support document as a result of the amendment made by the Protocol.
Protocol Covered Document Date
means, in respect of any document, the date of such document, howsoever described therein, provided that (a) if such document has different dates specified therein, one of which includes a date specified as an “as of” date, such date shall be the Protocol Covered Document Date, and (b) if such document is a Confirmation (other than a master confirmation agreement, including any related general terms confirmation), the Protocol Covered Document Date shall be the Trade Date.
Protocol Covered Documents
means Protocol Covered Confirmations, Protocol Covered Master Agreements and Protocol Covered Credit Support Documents, other than any such documentation governing cleared transactions (including any transactions that are “Client Transactions” (or in substance equivalent) under a 2016 ISDA/FIA Client Cleared OTC Derivatives Addendum or any agreement that in substance relates to the same matters as those contemplated by the 2016 ISDA/FIA Client Cleared OTC Derivatives Addendum between a clearing member and its client).
Protocol Covered Master Agreement
means, subject to subparagraph 3(g)(vi) above, a Master Agreement which is entered into (or deemed entered into) between two Adhering Parties (whether directly or through the agency of an Agent and, if through the agency of an Agent, whether executed by that Agent or by an entity on behalf of that Agent), has a Protocol Covered Document Date prior to the Protocol Effective Date (or, if later, the date of acceptance by ISDA, as agent, of an Adherence Letter (in accordance with paragraph 1(b) above) from the later of the two Adhering Parties to adhere) and:
(a) Incorporates a Covered ISDA Definitions Booklet;
(b) References a Relevant IBOR “as defined” in, or otherwise provides that the Relevant IBOR has the meaning given in, a Covered ISDA Definitions Booklet (regardless of
whether such Covered ISDA Definitions Booklet is incorporated in full in that Master Agreement); and/or
(c) References a Relevant IBOR, howsoever defined.
Protocol Effective Date
has the meaning given to such term in subparagraph 1(c)(A) above.
Relevant IBOR
means:
(a) Any of sterling LIBOR (London interbank offered rate), Swiss franc LIBOR (London interbank offered rate), U.S. dollar LIBOR (London interbank offered rate), euro LIBOR (London interbank offered rate), the euro interbank offered rate, Japanese yen LIBOR (London interbank offered rate), the Japanese yen Tokyo interbank offered rate, the euroyen Tokyo interbank offered rate, the bank bill swap rate, the Canadian dollar offered rate, the Hong Kong interbank offered rate, the Singapore dollar swap offer rate and the Thai baht interest rate fixing; and
(b) LIBOR (London interbank offered rate) with no reference to, or indication of, the currency of the relevant LIBOR (London interbank offered rate) (including, for the avoidance of doubt, the reference in Section 7.3 (
Corrections to Published Prices
) of the 2005 ISDA Commodity Definitions to “the spot offered rate for deposits in the payment currency in the London interbank market as at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time”), in each case, howsoever defined or described (whether in English or in any other language) in the relevant Protocol Covered Document.
Revocation Date
means, with respect to a Revocation Notice and an Adhering Party, the last Protocol Business Day of the calendar month following the calendar month in which that Revocation Notice is effectively delivered by that Adhering Party to ISDA.
Revocation Notice
has the meaning given to such term in paragraph 1(e) above.
Third Party
means, in relation to an agreement supported by a Third Party Credit Support Document, any party to such Third Party Credit Support Document other than either of the Adhering Parties which are parties to the agreement.
Third Party Credit Support Document
means, with respect to an Adhering Party and a Protocol Covered Document, any Credit Support Document which is executed by one or more Third Parties (whether or not an Adhering Party is a party thereto), whether or not such document is specified as a Third Party Support Document or as a Credit Support Document therein or in the Protocol Covered Document.
Trade Date
means, in respect of a Protocol Covered Confirmation (other than a master confirmation agreement, including any related general terms confirmation), the date on which the parties enter into the related transaction.

# Exhibit 1 to the ISDA 2020 IBOR Fallbacks Protocol

# Form of Adherence Letter

# [Letterhead of Adhering Party]

# [Date]

# International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc.

# Ladies and Gentlemen,

# ISDA 2020 IBOR Fallbacks Protocol
The purpose of this letter is to confirm our adherence to the ISDA 2020 IBOR Fallbacks Protocol as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA) on October 23, 2020 (the Protocol). By submitting this Adherence Letter, we confirm that we are an Adhering Party to the Protocol. This letter constitutes, as between each other Adhering Party and us, an Adherence Letter as referred to in the Protocol. The definitions and provisions contained in the Protocol are incorporated into this Adherence Letter, which will supplement and form part of each Protocol Covered Document between us and each other Adhering Party.

# 1. Specified Terms for Adhering Party as Principal
As between each Adhering Party and us, we acknowledge and agree that the amendments in the Attachment to the Protocol shall apply to each Protocol Covered Document to which we are a party in accordance with the terms of the Protocol and this Adherence Letter.

# 2. Appointment as Agent and Release
We hereby appoint ISDA as our agent for the limited purposes of the Protocol and accordingly we waive any rights and hereby release ISDA from any claims, actions or causes of action whatsoever (whether in contract, tort or otherwise) arising out of or in any way relating to this Adherence Letter or our adherence to the Protocol or any actions contemplated as being required by ISDA.

# 3. Arbitration Agreement and Class Action Waiver
By adhering to the Protocol, we agree that all claims or disputes arising out of or in connection with adherence to the Protocol shall be finally settled under the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce (the Rules) by three arbitrators, and hereby waive any right to assert any such claims or disputes against ISDA as a
representative or member in any class or representative action. The claimant(s) (as defined in the Rules) shall nominate one arbitrator in the `Request for Arbitration'. The respondent(s) (as defined in the Rules) shall nominate one arbitrator in the `Answer to the Request'. The two party-nominated arbitrators shall then have 30 days to agree, in consultation with the parties to the arbitration, upon the nomination of a third arbitrator to act as president of the tribunal, barring which the International Chamber of Commerce Court shall select the third arbitrator (or any arbitrator that claimant(s) or respondent(s) shall fail to nominate in accordance with the foregoing). This agreement to arbitrate shall not be affected by the Revocation Notice as described in the Protocol.

# 4. Payment
Each Adhering Party or, if such Adhering Party is a Client on whose behalf an Agent adheres to this Protocol, each Agent, that is classified by ISDA for purposes of membership of ISDA as an “ISDA Primary Member” must submit a one-time fee of U.S. $500 to ISDA at or before the submission of this Adherence Letter. Each Adhering Party or, if such Adhering Party is a Client on whose behalf an Agent adheres to this Protocol, each Agent, which is not an “ISDA Primary Member” is not required to submit a fee to ISDA if this Adherence Letter is submitted prior to the Protocol Effective Date. If an Adhering Party or, if such Adhering Party is a Client on whose behalf an Agent adheres to this Protocol, an Agent, which is not an “ISDA Primary Member” submits this Adherence Letter on or after the Protocol Effective Date, such Adhering Party or Agent (as applicable) must submit a one-time fee of U.S. $500 to ISDA at or before the submission of this Adherence Letter.

# 5. Contact Details
Our contact details for purposes of this Adherence Letter are:
Name:
Company Name:
Address:
Phone:
Fax:
Email:
We consent to the publication of a conformed copy of this letter by ISDA and to the disclosure by ISDA of the contents of this letter.

# Yours faithfully,

# [ADHERING PARTY]
2

# By:

# Name:

# Title:
Note 2:
Specify legal name of Adhering Party.
If you are an Agent, you may sign the Adherence Letter using one of the options below. Please note that, if you would like to adhere on behalf of yourself, as principal, and also on behalf of your Clients, as Agent, you must submit one adherence letter for yourself, as principal, and a second adherence letter on behalf of your Clients, as Agent, in the latter case, in accordance with one of the options set out below.
First, if you have the authority to adhere to this Protocol as Agent on behalf of all Clients, you may indicate the following in the signature block: “acting on behalf of [(a)] each fund, account or other principal (each, a “Client”) on whose behalf we have entered, or will enter, into a Protocol Covered Document and any New Clients added to an Agent Protocol Covered Document in the future [and (b) in respect of any Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Documents, each Client which we name or identify through a Platform as being a Client in respect of which subparagraph 3(g)(ii)(B)(II) of the Protocol applies]”. If such a signature block is used, a separate Adherence Letter for each Client does not need to be submitted to ISDA and no specific names of Clients must be identified through a Platform (except if you elect for Option 2 in this Adherence Letter, in which case the Clients on whose behalf you are amending Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Documents should be identified through such Platform; you will be responsible for identifying such Clients and providing their LEIs. If you cannot or do not wish to name such Clients, then provided that you can identify the Clients by way of LEIs, you may identify such Clients using LEIs and without including any names). If you do not elect for Option 2 in this Adherence Letter, you should delete the wording in square brackets in the signature block.
Second, if you adhere to this Protocol as an agent on behalf of certain Clients only by specifically identifying such Clients, you may indicate the following in the signature block: “acting on behalf of [(a)] each fund, account or other principal (each a “Client”) which we name or identify through a Platform as being a Client on whose behalf we have entered, or will enter, into a Protocol Covered Document and any New Clients added to an Agent Protocol Covered Document and identified through a Platform as a New Client [and (b) in respect of any Non-
Agent Executed Protocol Covered Documents, each Client which we name or identify through a Platform as being a Client in respect of which subparagraph 3(g)(ii)(B)(II) of the Protocol applies]”. You will be responsible for identifying any Clients on whose behalf you have entered into, or will enter into, a Protocol Covered Document, any New Clients and any Clients on whose behalf you amend Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Documents and, in each case, providing their LEIs. If you cannot or do not wish to name such Clients, then provided that you can identify the Clients by way of LEIs, you may identify such Clients using LEIs and without including any names. If you do not elect for Option 2 in this Adherence Letter, you should delete the wording in square brackets in the signature block.
Third, if you adhere to this Protocol as an agent on behalf of certain Clients only by excluding certain Clients, you may indicate the following in the signature block: “acting on behalf of [(a)] each fund, account or other principal (each, a “Client”) on whose behalf we have entered, or will enter, into a Protocol Covered Document (except for those Clients which we identify through a Platform as excluded from adherence) and any New Clients added to an Agent Protocol Covered Document (except for any New Clients which we identify through a Platform as excluded from adherence) [and (b) in respect of any Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Documents, each Client which we name or identify through a Platform as being a Client in respect of which subparagraph 3(g)(ii)(B)(II) of the Protocol applies]”. You will be responsible for identifying any excluded Clients and any Clients on whose behalf you amend Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Documents and, in each case, for providing their LEIs. If you cannot or do not wish to name those excluded Clients or those Clients on whose behalf you are amending Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Documents, then provided that you can identify them by way of LEIs, you may identify those Clients using LEIs and without including any names. If you do not elect for Option 2 in this Adherence Letter, you should delete the wording in square brackets in the signature block.
Fourth, if you adhere to this Protocol as an agent on behalf of no current Clients, you may indicate the following in the signature block: “acting to amend each Protocol Covered Document (or other agreement which deems a Protocol Covered Document to have been created) between it (as agent) and each Adhering Party, with respect to New Clients.”

# Specified Terms for Adhering Party as Agent
3
The election for Option 1 or Option 2 below should only be made by an Agent. Any entity which adheres to the Protocol and which is not acting as an Agent should not complete the election below.
As between each Adhering Party and us, we acknowledge and agree that the amendments in the Attachment to the Protocol shall apply to each:

# Option 1
□ Protocol Covered Document into which we have entered on behalf of one or more Clients covered in accordance with the terms of the Protocol and this Adherence Letter (as contemplated by Option 1 in the Protocol); or

# Option 2
□ Protocol Covered Document into (i) which we have entered on behalf of one or more Clients covered in accordance with the terms of the Protocol and this Adherence Letter and (ii) which we did not enter on behalf of one or more Clients but which we otherwise have the authority from the relevant Client to amend in accordance with and subject to the terms of the Protocol and this Adherence Letter (as contemplated by Option 2 in the Protocol).
We agree, in our capacity as Agent for the relevant Client(s), to provide each other Adhering Party, as soon as reasonably practicable following such other Adhering Party's written request (including by email), and in any event by no later than the end of the fifteenth calendar day following such request (and as required by and in accordance with subparagraph 3(g)(iv) of the Protocol), with reasonable evidence satisfactory to such other Adhering Party in its sole discretion supporting our authority to amend any Protocol Covered Document into which we did not enter on behalf of one or more Clients (whose name or identity we communicate to the other Adhering Party through a Platform as being a Client in respect of which subparagraph 3(g)(ii)(B)(II) of the Protocol applies).
Failure to provide an Adhering Party with such evidence shall (unless the Agent is deemed to have provided such evidence, pursuant to subparagraph 3(g)(iv) of the Protocol), only in respect of those Non-Agent Executed Protocol Covered Documents between the relevant Client(s) and such Adhering Party, result in this Adherence Letter being ineffective unless and until we, in our capacity as Agent for the relevant Client(s), are deemed to have provided that Adhering Party with such evidence pursuant to subparagraph 3(g)(iv) of the Protocol. Failure to provide an Adhering Party with such evidence shall not give rise to a Potential Event
of Default or an Event of Default (each as defined in the ISDA Master Agreement), or any similar event, under those Protocol Covered Documents or other contractual right of action under this Protocol or those Protocol Covered Documents.
Note 3:
The descriptions of Option 1 and Option 2 in this Adherence Letter and of related provisions within the Protocol are intended for convenience of reference only. Adhering Parties should read the provisions of the Protocol before submitting an Adherence Letter. In the event of any inconsistency between the descriptions of Option 1 and Option 2 and related provisions in this Adherence Letter and the provisions of the Protocol, the provisions of the Protocol shall take precedence.

# EXHIBIT 2 to the ISDA 2020 IBOR Fallbacks Protocol

# Form of Revocation Notice

# [Letterhead of Adhering Party]

# [Date]

# International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. Send to:
isda@isda.org

# Ladies and Gentlemen,

# ISDA 2020 IBOR Fallbacks Protocol—Designation of a Revocation Date
The purpose of this letter is to notify you that we wish to designate a Revocation Date as the last date on which an Implementation Date can occur pursuant to the terms of the ISDA 2020 IBOR Fallbacks Protocol as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA) on October 23, 2020 (the Protocol) in respect of any Protocol Covered Document between us and any other Adhering Party.
This letter constitutes a Revocation Notice as referred to in the Protocol.
We consent to the publication of the conformed copy of this notice by ISDA on and after the Revocation Date and to the disclosure by ISDA of the contents of this letter.

# Yours faithfully,

# [ADHERING PARTY]
4

# By:
Name:
Title:
Signature:
Note 4:
Specify legal name of Adhering Party.
If you are an Agent and act on behalf of multiple Clients, you may sign a Revocation Notice using one of the methods below. Alternatively, you may submit one Revocation Notice per Client.
First, if you have the authority to deliver a Revocation Notice for this Protocol as Agent on behalf of all Clients, you may indicate the following in the signature block: “acting on behalf of each fund, account or other principal (each, a “Client”) represented by us (as agent)” or such other language which indicates the Clients to which this letter is applicable. If such a signature block is used, a separate Revocation Notice for each Client does not need to be submitted to ISDA and no specific names of Clients must be identified in the Revocation Notice.
Second, if you have the authority to deliver a Revocation Notice for this Protocol as Agent on behalf of certain Clients only, you may indicate the following in the signature block: “acting on behalf of each fund, account or other principal (each, a “Client”) represented by us (as agent) identified in the Revocation Notice or an appendix thereto”. If you cannot or do not wish to name such Clients, then provided that you can identify the revoking Clients by way of specific identifiers which will be known and recognized by allAdhering Parties with which the relevant Clients have entered into Confirmations, Master Agreements and/or credit support documents, you may identify such revoking Clients using specific identifiers and without including any names.
Paragraph 1(e) of the Protocol sets out the consequences of a Revocation Notice where an Agent adheres to the Protocol on behalf of a Client.

# ANNEX to the ISDA 2020 IBOR Fallbacks Protocol

# Additional Documents Annex

# Part 1: Additional Master Agreements
(a) 2001 FBF Master Agreement relating to Transactions on Forward Financial Instruments.
(b) 2007 FBF Master Agreement relating to Transactions on Forward Financial Instruments.
(c) 2013 FBF Master Agreement relating to Transactions on Forward Financial Instruments.
(d) 1994 AFB Master Agreement for Foreign Exchange and Derivatives Transactions.
(e) 1997 AFTI/FBF Master Agreement for Loans of Securities.
(f) 2007 AFTI/FBF Master Agreement for Loans of Securities.
(g) 2007 FBF Master Agreement for Repurchase Transactions.
(h) 1994 AFTB Master Agreement for Repurchase Transactions with Delivery of Securities.
(i) Execution Annex with respect to the AFB/FBF 1994/2001/2007/2013 Master Agreements.
(j) 1997 Spanish Master Agreement (Contrato Marco de Operaciones Financieras
or CMOF) published by Asociación Española de Banca (Spanish Banking Association) and Confederación Española de Cajas de Ahorros (Spanish Confederation of Savings Banks).
(k) Annex III to the 1997 Spanish Master Agreement (Contrato Marco de Operaciones Financieras or CMOF) published by Asociación Española de Banca (Spanish Banking Association) and Confederación Española de Cajas de Ahorros (Spanish Confederation of Savings Banks).
(l) 2009 Spanish Master Agreement (Contrato Marco de Operaciones Financieras or CMOF) published by Asociación Española de Banca (Spanish Banking Association) and Confederación Española de Cajas de Ahorros (Spanish Confederation of Savings Banks).
(m) Annex III to the 2009 Spanish Master Agreement (Contrato Marco de Operaciones Financieras or CMOF) published by Asociación Española de Banca (Spanish Banking Association) and Confederación Española de Cajas de Ahorros (Spanish Confederation of Savings Banks).
(n) 2013 Spanish Master Agreement (Contrato Marco de Operaciones Financieras or CMOF) published by Asociación Española de Banca (Spanish Banking Association) and Confederación Española de Cajas de Ahorros (Spanish Confederation of Savings Banks).
(o) Annex III to the 2013 Spanish Master Agreement (Contrato Marco de Operaciones Financieras or CMOF) published by Asociación Española de Banca (Spanish Banking Association) and Confederación Española de Cajas de Ahorros (Spanish Confederation of Savings Banks).
(p) 2003 Swiss Master Agreement for OTC Derivative Instruments published by the Swiss Bankers Association.
(q) 2013 Swiss Master Agreement for OTC Derivative Instruments published by the Swiss Bankers Association (for use in connection with certain ISDA definitions).
(r) 2013 Swiss Master Agreement for OTC Derivative Instruments published by the Swiss Bankers Association (non-ISDA version not for use in connection with any ISDA definitions).
(s) 1999 Bilateral Swiss Master Agreement for Repo Transactions published by the Swiss Bankers Association.
(t) 1999 Multilateral Swiss Master Agreement for Repo Transactions published by the Swiss Bankers Association.
(u) 2011 Swiss Master Agreement for Securities Lending and Borrowing prepared by the Swiss Bankers Association.
(v) 2001 Master Agreement for Financial Transactions sponsored by the Banking Federation of the European Union (EBF or FBE) in cooperation with the European Savings Banks Group (ESBG) and the European Association of Cooperative Banks (EACB).
(w) 2004 Master Agreement for Financial Transactions sponsored by the Banking Federation of the European Union (EBF or FBE) in cooperation with the European Savings Banks Group (ESBG) and the European Association of Cooperative Banks (EACB).
(x) 2020 Master Agreement for Financial Transactions sponsored by the Banking Federation of the European Union (EBF or FBE) in cooperation with the European Savings Banks Group (ESBG) and the European Association of Cooperative Banks (EACB).
(y) Austrian Master Agreement for Financial Transactions (Österreichischer Rahmenvertrag für Finanztermingeschäfte or ÖRV).
(z) 1997 International Foreign Exchange and Options Master Agreement (FEOMA).
(aa) 1993 International Foreign Exchange Master Agreement (IFEMA).
(bb) 1997 International Foreign Exchange Master Agreement (IFEMA).
(cc) 1997 International Currency Options Market (ICOM) Master Agreement.
(dd) 2005 International Foreign Exchange and Currency Option Master Agreement (IFXCO).
(ee) 1992 PSA/ISMA Global Master Repurchase Agreement (GMRA).
(ff) 1995 PSA/ISMA Global Master Repurchase Agreement (GMRA).
(gg) 2000 TBMA/ISMA Global Master Repurchase Agreement (GMRA).
(hh) 2011 SIFMA/ICMA Global Master Repurchase Agreement (GMRA).
(ii) 2000 ISLA Global Master Securities Lending Agreement (GMSLA).
(jj) 2010 ISLA Global Master Securities Lending Agreement (GMSLA).
(kk) 2018 ISLA Global Master Securities Lending Agreement (GMSLA)—Security Interest over Collateral.
(ll) 1993 TBMA/SIA Master Securities Loan Agreement (MSLA).
(mm) 2000 TBMA/SIA Master Securities Loan Agreement (MSLA).
(nn) 2017 SIFMA Master Securities Loan Agreement (MSLA).
(oo) 1987 PSA Master Repurchase Agreement (MRA).
(pp) 1996 TBMA Master Repurchase Agreement (MRA).
(qq) 2000 SIFMA Master OTC Options Agreement.
(rr) 1989 TBMA Master Dealer Agreement, OTC Option Transaction—U.S. Treasury Securities.
(ss) Emissions Master LF-IETA Master Agreement.
(tt) WSPP Agreement.
(uu) 2004 FIA Grid Trade Master Agreement.
(vv) EEI Master Power Purchase
Sale Agreement. (ww)
EL Master—Electricity Power Master Agreement.
(xx) 1994 LBMA/FEC International Bullion Master Agreement (English law version).
(yy) 1994 LBMA/FEC International Bullion Master Agreement (New York law version).
(zz) 1997 ASLA Australian Master Securities Lending Agreement (AMSLA).
(aaa) 2002 ASLA Australian Master Securities Lending Agreement (AMSLA).
(bbb) 2003 ASLA Australian Master Securities Lending Agreement (AMSLA).
(ccc) GISB Base Short-Term Contract for Sale and Purchase of Natural Gas.
(ddd) NAESB Base Contract for Sale and Purchase of Natural Gas.
(eee) 1996 Master Gilt Edged Stock Lending Agreement (GESLA).
(fff) 1996 Master Equity and Fixed Interest Stock Lending Agreement (MEFISLA).
(ggg) 1994 Equity and Fixed Interest Stock Lending (Agency) Agreement.
(hhh) 1994 Overseas Securities Lender's Agreement (OSLA).
(iii) 1995 Overseas Securities Lender's Agreement (OSLA).
(jjj) globalCOAL Standard Coal Trading Agreement (SCoTA).
(kkk)KOFIA Agreement on Margin Transactions.
(lll) KOFIA Agreement on Foreign Exchange Margin Trading.
(mmm) KOFIA Agreement on Securities Lending and Borrowing.
(nnn) KOFIA Agreement on Repurchase Agreement (Repo) between Institutions.
(ooo) KOFIA Agreement on Repurchase Agreement (Repo) with Customers.
(ppp) KOFIA best practice Korean language agreement template for OTC derivatives.
(qqq) Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada (IIROC) Repurchase/Reverse Repurchase Transaction Agreement.
(rrr) Master Agreement Concerning Stock Lending Transactions (
kabuken tou taishaku torihiki ni kansuru kihon keiyakusho
) (including without limitation separate agreements to be executed pursuant to or in connection with that Master Agreement such as Supplemental Memorandum of Understanding (
kabuken tou taishaku torihiki ni kansuru kihon keiyakusho fuzoku oboegaki
)) published by Japan Securities Dealers Association.
(sss) Master Agreement Concerning Bond Lending Transactions (
saiken taishaku torihiki ni kansuru kihon keiyakusho
) (including without limitation separate agreements to be executed pursuant to or in connection with that Master Agreement such as Supplemental Memorandum of Understanding (
saiken taishaku torihiki ni kansuru kihon keiyakusho fuzoku oboegaki
)) published by Japan Securities Dealers Association.
(ttt) Master Agreement Concerning Bond Repo Transactions (
saiken tou no gensaki torihiki ni kansuru kihon keiyakusho
) (including without limitation separate agreements to be executed pursuant to or in connection with that Master Agreement such as Supplemental Memorandum of Understanding (
saiken tou no gensaki torihiki ni kansuru kihon keiyakusho fuzoku oboegaki
)) published by Japan Securities Dealers Association.
(uuu) Mexican Master Derivatives Agreement (Contrato Marco para Operaciones Financieras Derivadas) published by Asociación de Bancos de Mexico (ABM) y Asociación Mexicana de Instituciones Bursatiles (AMIB).
(vvv) Mexican Master Securities Purchase and Sale/Repo Agreement (Contrato Marco para Operaciones de Compraventa de Valores y Reporto) published by Asociación de Bancos de Mexico (ABM) y Asociación Mexicana de Instituciones Bursatiles (AMIB).

# Part 2: Additional Credit Support Documents
(a) 2007 FBF Collateral Annex.
(b) 1997 ABF Collateral Annex.
(c) AFB/FBF Addendum to the ISDA 2016 Credit Support Annex for Variation Margin (VM).
(d) 2008 Credit Support Appendix to the Swiss Master Agreement for OTC Derivative Instruments published by the Swiss Bankers Association.
(e) 2015 Credit Support Appendix to the Swiss Master Agreement for OTC Derivative Instruments published by the Swiss Bankers Association.
(f) Credit Support Appendix for Variation Margin to the Swiss Master Agreement for OTC Derivative Instruments published by the Swiss Bankers Association.
(g) Mexican Credit Support Agreement related to Derivatives (Contrato Global para Otorgar Garantías respecto de Operaciones Financieras Derivadas) published by Asociación de Bancos de Mexico (ABM) y Asociación Mexicana de Instituciones Bursatiles (AMIB).

# Attachment to the ISDA 2020 IBOR Fallbacks Protocol

# 1. Amendments to Protocol Covered Documents Incorporating the 2006 ISDA Definitions
If a Protocol Covered Document incorporates the 2006 ISDA Definitions, the version of the 2006 ISDA Definitions so incorporated shall be amended in accordance with the terms of the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement (and, if that Protocol Covered Document is a Protocol Covered Master Agreement, any reference to a term defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions in a Confirmation which supplements, forms part of and is subject to that Protocol Covered Master Agreement will be a reference to the term as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions as amended in accordance with the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement).

# 2. Amendments to Protocol Covered Documents Incorporating the 2000 ISDA Definitions
If a Protocol Covered Document incorporates the 2000 ISDA Definitions, the version of the 2000 ISDA Definitions so incorporated shall be amended in accordance with the terms of the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement (and, if that Protocol Covered Document is a Protocol Covered Master Agreement, any reference to a term defined in the 2000 ISDA Definitions in a Confirmation which supplements, forms part of and is subject to that Protocol Covered Master Agreement will be a reference to the term as defined in the 2000 ISDA Definitions as amended in accordance with the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement), provided that the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement shall be deemed amended as follows:
(a) Each of the following sections shall be deleted:
(i) “
GBP-LIBOR-BBA-Bloomberg”;
(ii) “
CHF-LIBOR-BBA-Bloomberg”;
(iii) “
USD-LIBOR-BBA-Bloomberg”;
(iv) “
EUR-LIBOR-BBA-Bloomberg”;
(v) “
JPY-LIBOR-FRASETT”;
(vi) “
JPY-LIBOR-BBA-Bloomberg”;
(vii) “
JPY-TIBOR-TIBM-(All Banks)-Bloomberg”;
(viii) “
AUD-BBR-BBSW-Bloomberg”;
(ix) “
CAD-BA-CDOR-Bloomberg”;
and
(x) “
HKD-HIBOR-HKAB-Bloomberg”;
(b) The section titled “
EUR-EURIBOR-Reuters”
will be re-titled “
EUR-EURIBOR-Telerate”
and references in such section (or in related sections) to “EUR-EURIBOR-Reuters” will be deleted and replaced with “EUR-EURIBOR-Telerate”;
(c) The section titled “
AUD-BBR-AUBBSW”
will be re-titled “
AUD-BBR-ISDC”
and references in such section (or in related sections) to “AUD-BBR-AUBBSW” will be deleted and replaced with “AUD- BBR-ISDC”;
(d) The section titled “
SGD-SOR-VWAP”
will be re-titled “
SGD-SOR-Telerate”
and references in such section (or in related sections) to “SGD-SOR-VWAP” will be deleted and replaced with “SGD-SOR- Telerate”;
(e) Tn the section titled “
THB-THBFIX-Reuters”,
the paragraph entitled “
No Index Cessation Effective Date”
shall be deemed amended as follows:
(i) The words “THB-THBFIX-Reference Banks” as the applicable Floating Rate Option” will be deleted and replaced with the words ““THB-SOR-Reference Banks” as the applicable Floating Rate Option, but with the following variations:” and subparagraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Section 7.1(z)(iii) of the 2000 ISDA Definitions will be inserted immediately thereafter; and
(ii) The last sentence in that paragraph will be deleted; and
(f) All references to section numbers within the 2006 ISDA Definitions will be deemed to be references to the equivalent sections within the 2000 ISDA Definitions.

# 3. Amendments to Protocol Covered Documents Incorporating the 1991 ISDA Definitions and/or the 1998 Supplement to the 1991 ISDA Definitions
If a Protocol Covered Document incorporates the 1991 ISDA Definitions and/or the 1998 Supplement to the 1991 ISDA Definitions, the version of the 1991 ISDA Definitions and/or the 1998 Supplement to the 1991 ISDA Definitions (as applicable) so incorporated shall be amended in accordance with the terms of the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement (and, if that Protocol Covered Document is a Protocol Covered Master Agreement, any reference to a term defined in the 1991 ISDA Definitions and/or the 1998 Supplement to the 1991 ISDA Definitions in a Confirmation which supplements, forms part of and is subject to that Protocol Covered Master Agreement will be a reference to the term as defined in the 1991 ISDA Definitions and/or the 1998 Supplement to the 1991 ISDA Definitions as amended in accordance with the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement), provided that the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement shall be deemed amended as follows:
(a) If the Protocol Covered Document incorporates the 1991 ISDA Definitions only, the 1991 ISDA Definitions as supplemented by the 1998 Supplement to the 1991 ISDA Definitions or the 1998 Supplement to the 1991 ISDA Definitions only, each of the following sections shall be deleted:
(i) “
GBP-LIBOR-BBA-Bloomberg”;
(ii) “
CHF-LIBOR-BBA-Bloomberg”;
(iii) “
USD-LIBOR-BBA-Bloomberg”;
(iv) “
EUR-LIBOR-BBA-Bloomberg”;
(v) “
EUR-EURIBOR-Reuters”;
(vi) “
JPY-LIBOR-FRASETT”;
(vii) “
JPY-LIBOR-BBA-Bloomberg”;
(viii)
“JPY-TIBOR-17097”;
(ix) “
JPY-TIBOR-TIBM-(All Banks)-Bloomberg”;
(x) “
AUD-BBR-BBSW-Bloomberg”;
(xi) “
CAD-BA-CDOR-Bloomberg”;
(xii) “
HKD-HIBOR-HKAB-Bloomberg”;
and
(xiii) “
THB-THBFIX-Reuters”;
(b) If the Protocol Covered Document incorporates the 1991 ISDA Definitions only, each of the following sections shall be deleted:
(i) “
JPY-TIBOR-ZTIBOR”;
and
(ii) “
SGD-SOR-VWAP”;
(c) If the Protocol Covered Document incorporates the 1991 ISDA Definitions as supplemented by the 1998 Supplement to the 1991 ISDA Definitions or the 1998 Supplement to the 1991 ISDA Definitions only, the section titled “
SGD-SOR-VWAP”
will be re-titled “
SGD-SOR-Telerate”
and references in such section (or in related sections) to “SGD-SOR-VWAP” will be deleted and replaced with “SGD-SOR- Telerate”;
(d) The section titled “
EUR-LIBOR-BBA”
will be re-titled “
XEU-LIBOR-BBA”
and references in such section (or in related sections) to “EUR-LIBOR-BBA” will be deleted and replaced with “XEU- LIBOR-BBA”;
(e) The section titled “
AUD-BBR-AUBBSW”
will be re-titled “
AUD-BBR-ISDC”
and references in such section (or in related sections) to “AUD-BBR-AUBBSW” will be deleted and replaced with “AUD-BBR-ISDC”; and
(f) All references to section numbers within the 2006 ISDA Definitions will be deemed to be references to the equivalent sections within the 1991 ISDA Definitions or the 1998 Supplement to the 1991 ISDA Definitions (as applicable).

# 4. Amendments to Protocol Covered Documents Incorporating the 1998 ISDA Euro Definitions
If a Protocol Covered Document incorporates the 1998 ISDA Euro Definitions:
(a) the version of the 1998 ISDA Euro Definitions so incorporated shall be amended in accordance with the terms of the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement (and, if that Protocol Covered Document is a Protocol Covered Master Agreement, any reference to a term defined in the 1998 ISDA Euro Definitions in a Confirmation which supplements, forms part of and is subject to that Protocol Covered Master Agreement will be a reference to the term as defined in the 1998 ISDA Euro Definitions as amended in accordance with the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement), provided that the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement shall be deemed amended as follows:
(i) Each of the following sections shall be deleted:
(A) “
GBP-LIBOR-BBA”;
(B) “
GBP-LIBOR-BBA-Bloomberg”;
(C) “
CHF-LIBOR-BBA”;
(D) “
CHF-LIBOR-BBA-Bloomberg”;
(E) “
USD-LIBOR-BBA”;
(F) “
USD-LIBOR-BBA-Bloomberg”;
(G) “
EUR-LIBOR-BBA-Bloomberg”;
(H) “
JPY-LIBOR-FRASETT”;
(I) “
JPY-LIBOR-BBA”;
(J) “
JPY-LIBOR-BBA-Bloomberg”;
(K) “
JPY-TIBOR-17097”;
(L) “
JPY-TIBOR-TIBM-(All Banks)-Bloomberg”;
(M) “
JPY-TIBOR-ZTIBOR”;
(N) “
AUD-BBR-AUBBSW”;
(O) “
AUD-BBR-BBSW”;
(P) “
AUD-BBR-BBSW-Bloomberg”;
(Q) “
CAD-BA-CDOR”;
(R) “
CAD-BA-CDOR-Bloomberg”;
(S) “
HKD-HIBOR-HKAB”;
(T) “
HKD-HIBOR-HKAB-Bloomberg”;
(U) “
SGD-SOR-VWAP”;
and
(V) “
THB-THBFIX-Reuters”;
(ii) the section titled “
EUR-EURIBOR-Reuters”
will be re-titled “
EUR-EURIBOR- Telerate”
and references in such section (or in related sections) to “EUR-EURIBOR-Reuters” will be deleted and replaced with “EUR-EURIBOR-Telerate”; and
(iii) all references to section numbers within the 2006 ISDA Definitions will be deemed to be references to the equivalent sections within the 1998 ISDA Euro Definitions.
(b) If a Relevant Rate (as defined in the 1991 ISDA Definitions) is to be determined pursuant to Section 4.3(b) (
Price Source Fallbacks
) of the 1998 ISDA Euro Definitions and “rates for deposits in euros” referred to in that section are required for any determination but are not available, they shall be deemed to be references to a Relevant IBOR (and, in particular, the euro interbank offered rate) to which paragraph 6 of this Attachment applies.

# 5. Amendments to Protocol Covered Documents Which Reference a Relevant IBOR “as defined”, or as Having the Meaning Given, in a Covered ISDA Definitions Booklet
A Protocol Covered Document of the type described in subparagraph (b) of, respectively, the definition of Protocol Covered Confirmation, Protocol Covered Credit Support Document or Protocol Covered Master Agreement shall be amended so that the reference to the Relevant IBOR “as defined in”, or the reference to the Relevant IBOR as having the meaning given in, the Covered ISDA Definitions Booklet will instead be a reference to the relevant Rate Option in the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement (or, if there is more than one relevant Rate Option, the first relevant Rate Option in the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement) for the Relevant IBOR “as defined in the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement” (and, if that Protocol Covered Document is a Protocol Covered Master Agreement, any reference to the Relevant IBOR (as defined in that Protocol Covered Master Agreement) in a Confirmation which supplements, forms part of and is subject to that Protocol Covered Master Agreement will be a reference to the relevant Rate Option in the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement (or, if there is more than one relevant Rate Option, the first relevant Rate Option in the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement) for the Relevant IBOR “as defined in the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement”), provided that:
(a) If the Relevant IBOR is:
(i) “EUR-EURIBOR-Telerate”, it will be deemed to be a reference to “EUR-EURIBOR- Reuters”;
(ii) “AUD-BBR-ISDC”, it will be deemed to be a reference to “AUD-BBR-AUBBSW”;
(iii) “XEU-LIBOR-BBA”, it will be deemed to be a reference to “EUR-LIBOR-BBA”; and
(iv) “SGD-SOR-Telerate”, it will be deemed to be a reference to “SGD-SOR-VWAP”, in each case, as defined in the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement; and
(b) If the Relevant IBOR is “THB-THBFIX-Reuters” and the Covered ISDA Definitions
Booklet is the 2000 ISDA Definitions, the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement shall be deemed amended in accordance with subparagraph 2(e) of this Attachment.

# 6. Amendments to Certain Protocol Covered Documents That Reference a Relevant IBOR
If a Protocol Covered Document is of the type described in subparagraph (c) of, respectively, the definition of Protocol Covered Confirmation, Protocol Covered Credit Support Document or Protocol Covered Master Agreement and, in each case, includes a reference to a Relevant IBOR pursuant to which the Relevant IBOR is required for any determination, and:
(a) (i) the Relevant IBOR which is required for that determination is neither the Singapore dollar swap offer rate nor the Thai baht interest rate fixing, (ii) the Relevant IBOR which is required for that determination has not been published by the source that is specified or otherwise ordinarily used to determine the level of the Relevant IBOR on the day on which it is required, and (iii) an Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to the Relevant IBOR has not occurred, then the reference to the Relevant IBOR will be deemed to be a reference to the rate as provided by the administrator of the Relevant IBOR and published by an authorized distributor of the Relevant IBOR or the administrator of the Relevant IBOR itself in respect of the day on which it is required. If neither an authorized distributor nor the administrator has published or provided the Relevant IBOR in respect of that day and an Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to the Relevant IBOR has not occurred, then, unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the reference to the Relevant IBOR will be deemed to be a reference to:
(A) A rate formally recommended for use by the administrator of the Relevant IBOR; or
(B) A rate formally recommended for use by:
(I) If the Relevant IBOR which is required for that determination is Swiss franc LIBOR, the competent authority responsible for supervising that rate or the administrator of that rate;
(II) If the Relevant IBOR which is required for that determination is sterling LIBOR, euro LIBOR or the euro interbank offered rate, the supervisor which is responsible for supervising the Relevant IBOR or the administrator of the Relevant IBOR;
(III) If the Relevant IBOR which is required for that determination is Japanese yen LIBOR, the Japanese yen Tokyo interbank offered rate or the euroyen Tokyo interbank offered rate, a committee officially endorsed or convened by the Bank of Japan for the purposes of recommending an alternative rate for that Relevant IBOR (which rate may be produced by the Bank of Japan or another administrator) or any other supervisor which is responsible for supervising the Relevant IBOR or the administrator of the Relevant IBOR;
(IV) If the Relevant IBOR which is required for that determination is U.S. dollar LIBOR, the Federal Reserve Board or the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or any other supervisor which is responsible for supervising the Relevant IBOR or the administrator of the Relevant IBOR; and
(V) If the Relevant IBOR which is required for that determination is the bank bill swap rate, the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (or any successor to the Australian Securities and Investments Commission in its role as supervisor of the bank bill swap rate),
In each case, during the period of non-publication of the Relevant IBOR and for so long as an Index Cessation Effective Date has not occurred. If a rate described in subparagraph (A) above is available, that rate shall apply. If no such rate is available but, in respect of the Relevant IBOR, a rate described in subparagraph (B) above, if applicable, is available, that rate shall apply. If neither a rate described in subparagraph (A) above is available nor a rate described in subparagraph (B) above, if applicable, is available, then the Calculation Agent shall determine a commercially reasonable alternative for the Relevant IBOR, taking into account any rate implemented by central counterparties and/or futures exchanges, in each case with trading volumes in derivatives or futures referencing the Relevant IBOR that the Calculation Agent considers sufficient for that rate to be a representative alternative rate.
If the Relevant IBOR is the Hong Kong interbank offered rate and the Protocol Covered Document provides that the Hong Kong Association of Banks' (or any successor's) typhoon and rainstorm arrangements (as published on the Hong Kong Association of Banks' website or on any successor website) apply, then those typhoon and rainstorm arrangements shall continue to apply and shall take precedence over the provisions of this paragraph 6(a);
(b) (i) The Relevant IBOR which is required for that determination is the Singapore dollar swap offer rate, (ii) the Singapore dollar swap offer rate has not been published by the source that is specified or otherwise ordinarily used to determine the level of the Singapore dollar swap offer rate on the day on which it is required and (iii) an Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to U.S. dollar LIBOR has not occurred, then the reference to the Singapore dollar swap offer rate will be deemed to be a reference to the substitute rate announced by ABS Benchmarks Administration Co Pte. Ltd. (or its successor as administrator or sponsor of that
rate) in respect of the Singapore dollar swap offer rate.
If ABS Benchmarks Administration Co Pte. Ltd. (or its successor as administrator or sponsor of that rate) has not announced a substitute rate by 9:00 p.m., Singapore time, on the Relevant Original Fixing Date and an Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to U.S. dollar LIBOR has not occurred, then, unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the reference to the Singapore dollar swap offer rate will be deemed to be a reference to:
(A) A rate formally recommended for use by the administrator of the Singapore dollar swap offer rate; or
(B) A rate formally recommended for use by the Monetary Authority of Singapore (or any other supervisor which is responsible for supervising the Singapore dollar swap offer rate or the administrator of the Singapore dollar swap offer rate) or a committee officially endorsed or convened by the Monetary Authority of Singapore (or any other supervisor which is responsible for supervising the Singapore dollar swap offer rate or the administrator of the Singapore dollar swap offer rate), in each case, during the period of non-publication of the Singapore dollar swap offer rate and for so long as an Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to U.S. dollar LIBOR has not occurred. If a rate described in subparagraph (A) above is available, that rate shall apply. If no such rate is available but a rate described in subparagraph (B) above is available, that rate shall apply. If neither a rate described in subparagraph (A) above nor a rate described in subparagraph (B) above is available, then the Calculation Agent shall determine a commercially reasonable alternative for the Singapore dollar swap offer rate, taking into account any rate implemented by central counterparties and/or futures exchanges, in each case with trading volumes in derivatives or futures referencing the Singapore dollar swap offer rate that the Calculation Agent considers sufficient for that rate to be a representative alternative rate;
(c) (i) the Relevant IBOR which is required for that determination is the Thai baht interest rate fixing, (ii) the Thai baht interest rate fixing has not been published by the source that is specified or otherwise ordinarily used to determine the level of the Thai baht interest rate fixing on the day on which it is required and (iii) an Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to U.S. dollar LIBOR has not occurred, then the reference to the Thai baht interest rate fixing will be deemed to be a reference to “THB-THBFIX-Reference Banks” (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions) but with the references to (A) “Reset Date” being replaced by “the day on which the rate is required”; (B) “Designated Maturity” being replaced by “the period of time in respect of which the Thai baht interest rate fixing is to be determined”; (C) “Calculation Period” being replaced by “period”; and (D) “Representative Amount” being replaced by “an amount that is representative for a single transaction in the relevant market at the relevant time”. If the rate cannot be determined pursuant to “THB-THBFIX-Reference Banks” (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions) andan Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to U.S. dollar LIBOR has not occurred, the rate will be determined by the Calculation Agent taking into consideration all available information that in good faith it deems relevant;
(d) Subject to paragraphs 6(e), (f) and (g) below, an Index Cessation Event has occurred with respect to the Relevant IBOR (or, if the Relevant IBOR is either the Singapore dollar swap offer rate or the Thai baht interest rate fixing, with respect to U.S. dollar LIBOR), then the reference to the Relevant IBOR will be deemed to be a reference to the Applicable Fallback Rate from and including either the Index Cessation Effective Date or, if the Relevant IBOR is observed on a day that is a period of time prior to the date for which the Relevant IBOR is set, such period of time following the Index Cessation Effective Date, provided that:
(i) If the Applicable Fallback Rate is Fallback Rate (SONIA), Fallback Rate (SARON), Fallback Rate (SOFR), Fallback Rate (EuroSTR), Fallback Rate (TONA), Fallback Rate (AONIA), Fallback Rate (CORRA), Fallback Rate (HONIA), Fallback Rate (SOR) or Fallback Rate (THBFIX), then the rate for the Relevant Original Fixing Date will be the Applicable Fallback Rate for the `Original IBOR Rate Record Day' (or, if Fallback Rate (SOR) or Fallback Rate (THBFIX) is the Applicable Fallback Rate, for the `Original SOR Rate Record Day' or `Original THBFIX Rate Record Day', as applicable) that corresponds to the Relevant Original Fixing Date, as most recently provided or published as at the Applicable Cut-off Time. If neither the provider of the Applicable Fallback Rate (or a successor provider, which, if the Applicable Fallback Rate is Fallback Rate (SONIA), Fallback Rate (SARON), Fallback Rate (SOFR), Fallback Rate (EuroSTR), Fallback Rate (TONA), Fallback Rate (AONIA), Fallback Rate (CORRA) or Fallback Rate (HONIA), is approved and/or appointed by ISDA from time to time) provides, nor any authorized distributors publish, the Applicable Fallback Rate for that `Original IBOR Rate Record Day' (or that `Original SOR Rate Record Day' or `Original THBFIX Rate Record Day', as applicable) at, or prior to, the Applicable Cut-off Time and a Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to that Applicable Fallback Rate has not occurred, then the rate for the Relevant Original Fixing Date will be the Applicable Fallback Rate as most recently provided or published at the Applicable Cut-off Time for the most recent
`Original IBOR Rate Record Day' (or `Original SOR Rate Record Day' or `Original THBFIX Rate Record Day', as applicable), notwithstanding that such day does not correspond to the Relevant Original Fixing Date;
(ii) If (A) the Applicable Fallback Rate is SONIA, the GBP Recommended Rate, SARON, the NWG Recommended Rate, the Modified SNB Policy Rate, SOFR, the Fed Recommended Rate, OBFR, the FOMC Target Rate, EuroSTR, the ECB Recommended Rate, Modified EDFR, TONA, the JPY Recommended Rate, AONIA, the RBA Recommended Rate, CORRA, the CAD Recommended Rate, the BOC Target Rate, HONIA, the HKD Recommended Rate, the MAS Recommended Rate, SORA, the BOT Recommended Rate or THOR, (B) neither the administrator provides nor authorized distributors publish that Applicable Fallback Rate (or if the Applicable Fallback Rate is the Modified SNB Policy Rate or Modified EDFR, the index, benchmark or other price source that is referred to in the definition thereof) and (C) a Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to that Applicable Fallback Rate has not occurred, then, in respect of any day for which that Applicable Fallback Rate is required, references to that Applicable Fallback Rate will be deemed to be references to the last provided or published Applicable Fallback Rate. If the Applicable Fallback Rate is the Modified SNB Policy Rate or Modified EDFR, references to that Applicable Fallback Rate in subparagraph 6(d)(ii)(C) above shall be deemed to be references to the index, benchmark or other price source that is referred to in the definition of Modified SNB Policy Rate or Modified EDFR, as applicable; and
(iii) If the Applicable Fallback Rate is UK Bank Rate, in respect of any day for which the UK Bank Rate is required, references to the UK Bank Rate will be deemed to be references to the last provided or published UK Bank Rate as at close of business in London on that day.
If the Relevant IBOR is the Singapore dollar swap offer rate or the Thai baht interest rate fixing, an Index Cessation Event with respect to U.S. dollar LIBOR will also occur if the Relevant IBOR in the relevant tenor (which under the 2006 ISDA Definitions would be equivalent to the “Designated Maturity”) has not been published by the source that is specified or otherwise ordinarily used to determine the level of the Relevant IBOR and, as of the Relevant Original Fixing Date, U.S. dollar LIBOR in the relevant tenor (which under the 2006 ISDA Definitions would be equivalent to the “Designated Maturity”) has been permanently discontinued or is Non-Representative and there is either no U.S. dollar LIBOR which has not been permanently discontinued and which is not Non-Representative for a period which is longer than that relevant tenor or no U.S. dollar LIBOR which has not been permanently discontinued and which is not Non-Representative for a period which is shorter than that relevant tenor. The related Index Cessation Effective Date shall be the first date on which there is no such longer or shorter rate or, if later, the first date on which U.S. dollar LIBOR in the relevant tenor (which under the 2006 ISDA Definitions would be equivalent to the “Designated Maturity”) is permanently unavailable or Non-Representative.
For the purposes of this paragraph 6(d), references to an “Original IBOR Rate Record Day”, “Original SOR Rate Record Day” and “Original THBFIX Rate Record Day” are to that term as used on the Fallback Rate Screen. For the purposes of the immediately preceding paragraph above, (A) references to a rate being “permanently discontinued” or “permanently unavailable” shall be deemed to be references to such rate being permanently discontinued or permanently unavailable following a public statement or publication of information which would constitute an Index Cessation Event in accordance with subparagraphs (a) and (b) of the definition thereof in respect of that rate in the relevant tenor and (B) references to “U.S. dollar LIBOR” in the definition of “Non-Representative” shall be deemed to be references to the relevant tenor of U.S. dollar LIBOR;
(e) If the Relevant IBOR which is required for that determination is neither the Singapore dollar swap offer rate nor the Thai baht interest rate fixing and:
(i) The determination for which the Relevant IBOR is required is ordinarily made by reference to linear interpolation between two rates, each of which is based on the Relevant IBOR, then (notwithstanding paragraph 6(d) above) the provisions of Section 7.9(a) of the 2006 ISDA Definitions shall be deemed to apply, provided that the Calculation Agent shall make such adaptations as are reasonable and necessary to the provisions of Section 7.9(a) of the 2006 ISDA Definitions in order to apply them to the relevant Protocol Covered Document;
(ii) The Relevant IBOR which is required for that determination is to be determined by reference to one or more rates, either (A) at least one of which has been permanently discontinued, or (B) if the Relevant IBOR is a Relevant LIBOR, at least one of which is Non-Representative, and, in either case, at least two Relevant IBOR tenors, at least one of which is shorter than the period of time in respect of which the Relevant IBOR is to be determined and at least one of which is longer than the period of time in respect of which the Relevant IBOR is to be determined, have not been permanently discontinued (and, if the Relevant IBOR is a Relevant LIBOR, are not Non- Representative),
then the provisions of Section 8.5 and Section 8.6 of the 2006 ISDA Definitions shall be deemed to apply, provided that the Calculation Agent shall make such adaptations as are reasonable and necessary to the provisions of Sections 8.5 and 8.6 of the 2006 ISDA Definitions in order to apply them to the relevant Protocol Covered Document;
(iii) The Relevant IBOR which is required for that determination is to be determined by reference to a tenor of the Relevant IBOR which has been permanently discontinued (or, if the Relevant IBOR is a Relevant LIBOR, which is Non-Representative), and there are either no shorter or no longer tenors in respect of the Relevant IBOR which have not been permanently discontinued (or, if the Relevant IBOR is a Relevant LIBOR, which are not Non-Representative), then an Index Cessation Event shall be deemed to have occurred with respect to the Relevant IBOR and the Index Cessation Effective Date shall be the first date on which there is either no such shorter or no such longer tenor or, if later, the first date on which the Relevant IBOR in the relevant tenor is permanently unavailable (or, if the Relevant IBOR is a Relevant LIBOR, Non-Representative);
(iv) In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of subparagraph 6(e)(ii) or subparagraph 6(e)(iii) above and the provisions of subparagraph 6(e)(i) above, subparagraph 6(e)(i) above shall prevail; and
(v) In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of subparagraph 6(e)(ii) or subparagraph 6(e)(iii) above and paragraph 6(d) above (including any terms used in paragraph 6(d) above and defined below), subparagraph 6(e)(ii) or subparagraph 6(e)(iii) above (as applicable) shall prevail,
For the purposes of this paragraph 6(e), (A) references to a rate being “permanently discontinued” shall be deemed to be references to such rate being permanently discontinued following a public statement or publication of information which would constitute an Index Cessation Event in accordance with subparagraphs (a) and (b) of the definition thereof in respect of that rate in the relevant tenor, (B) references to the “Relevant LIBOR” in the definition of “Non-Representative” shall be deemed to be references to the relevant tenor of the Relevant LIBOR and (C) Section 7.9(a), 8.5 and 8.6 of the 2006 ISDA Definitions shall be construed in accordance with Sections 7.3(r) and 7.3(s) of the 2006 ISDA Definitions;
(f) If the Relevant IBOR which is required for that determination is the Singapore dollar swap offer rate or the Thai baht interest rate fixing and the determination for which the Relevant IBOR is required is ordinarily made by reference to linear interpolation between two rates, each of which is based on the Relevant IBOR, then (notwithstanding paragraph 6(d) above) the provisions of Section 7.10(a) of the 2006 ISDA Definitions shall be deemed to apply, provided that the Calculation Agent shall make such adaptations as are reasonable and necessary to the provisions of Section 7.10(a) of the 2006 ISDA Definitions in order to apply them to the relevant Protocol Covered Document.
For the purposes of this paragraph 6(f), Section 7.10(a) of the 2006 ISDA Definitions shall be construed in accordance with Sections 7.3(r) and 7.3(s) of the 2006 ISDA Definitions;
(g) If (i) the Relevant IBOR which is required for that determination is the Singapore dollar swap offer rate or the Thai baht interest rate fixing and the Applicable Fallback Rate is Fallback Rate (SOR) or Fallback Rate (THBFIX), as applicable, (ii) the determination for which the Relevant IBOR is required is not ordinarily made by reference to linear interpolation between two rates and (iii) the period of time for which the rate is required (which under the 2006 ISDA Definitions would be the “Calculation Period”) is shorter than the Relevant IBOR in the relevant tenor (which under the 2006 ISDA Definitions would be the “Designated Maturity”), then (notwithstanding paragraph 6(d) above) the provisions of Section 7.11(a) of the 2006 ISDA Definitions shall be deemed to apply, provided that the Calculation Agent shall make such adaptations as are reasonable and necessary to the provisions of Section 7.11(a) of the 2006 ISDA Definitions in order to apply them to the relevant Protocol Covered Document; and
(h) If the definition, methodology, formula or other means of calculating the Relevant IBOR or the Applicable Fallback Rate (or, if applicable, the index, benchmark or other price source that is referred to in the Relevant IBOR or the Applicable Fallback Rate) is modified, each party acknowledges that, unless otherwise specified or agreed, references to that Relevant IBOR or the Applicable Fallback Rate (or the index, benchmark or other price source that is referred to in the Relevant IBOR or the Applicable Fallback Rate) shall be to the Relevant IBOR or the Applicable Fallback Rate (or the index, benchmark or other price source that is referred to in the Relevant IBOR or the Applicable Fallback Rate) as modified. In the event of any inconsistency between this paragraph 6(h) and paragraphs 6(a) through 6(d) above (including any terms used in those paragraphs and defined below and including subparagraphs 6(e)(ii) and 6(e)(iii) above as they apply in priority to paragraph 6(d) above), paragraphs 6(a) through 6(d) above including subparagraphs 6(e)(ii) and 6(e)(iii) as they apply in priority to paragraph 6(d) above shall prevail.
If the Relevant IBOR referenced in the Protocol Covered Document is LIBOR with no reference to, or indication of, the currency of the relevant LIBOR (including, for
the avoidance of doubt, the reference in Section 7.3 (
Corrections to Published Prices
) of the 2005 ISDA Commodity Definitions to “the spot offered rate for deposits in the payment currency in the London interbank market as at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time”), then the reference to LIBOR (howsoever defined or described) in the Protocol Covered Document will be deemed to be a reference to LIBOR in the currency of the related payment for which LIBOR is required pursuant to the terms of the Protocol Covered Document and paragraphs 6(a), 6(d) and 6(e) above, and the related definitions below, shall be construed accordingly.
For the purposes of any Protocol Covered Document which does not include a definition of “Calculation Agent”, the term “Calculation Agent” shall be deemed to be a reference to a party or parties who would ordinarily be responsible for calculating or determining any rates or amounts payable under the relevant Protocol Covered Document and performing any associated duties.
If the Protocol Covered Document to which this paragraph 6 applies is a Protocol Covered Master Agreement, the Relevant IBOR is defined in the Protocol Covered Master Agreement and that definition is referenced in a Confirmation that supplements, forms part of and is subject to that Protocol Covered Master Agreement, then the reference in the Protocol Covered Master Agreement to the Relevant IBOR as amended by this paragraph 6 will also apply to the reference to the Relevant IBOR in that Confirmation.
For these purposes:
“
Applicable Banking Days
” means, if the Relevant IBOR is:
(a) Swiss franc LIBOR, U.S. dollar LIBOR or Japanese yen LIBOR, London Banking Days (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions);
(b) Euro LIBOR or the euro interbank offered rate, TARGET Settlement Days (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions);
(c) The Japanese yen Tokyo interbank offered rate or the euroyen Tokyo interbank offered rate, Tokyo Banking Days (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions);
(d) The Singapore dollar swap offer rate, Singapore and London Banking Days (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions); and
(e) The Thai baht interest rate fixing, Bangkok Banking Days (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions).
“
Applicable Cut-off Time
” means:
(a) for Fallback Rate (SONIA), 11:30 a.m., London time;
(b) for Fallback Rate (SARON), 8:30 p.m., Zurich time;
(c) for Fallback Rate (SOFR), 10:30 a.m., New York City time;
(d) for Fallback Rate (EuroSTR), 11:30 a.m., Frankfurt time;
(e) for Fallback Rate (TONA), 12:30 p.m., Tokyo time;
(f) for Fallback Rate (AONIA), 11:30 a.m., Sydney time;
(g) for Fallback Rate (CORRA), 11:30 a.m., Toronto time;
(h) for Fallback Rate (HONIA), 7:30 p.m., Hong Kong time;
(i) for Fallback Rate (SOR), 11:30 a.m., New York City time; and
(j) for Fallback Rate (THBFIX), 10:00 a.m., Bangkok time, in each case, on the Fallback Observation Day.
“
Applicable Fallback Rate
” means, in respect of a Relevant IBOR, for the purposes of:
(a) Sterling LIBOR, Fallback Rate (SONIA) or if a Fallback Index Cessation Event has occurred with respect to Fallback Rate (SONIA), then the Applicable Fallback Rate for any Fallback Observation Day that occurs on or after the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (SONIA) will be the Sterling Overnight Index Average (“SONIA”) rate administered by the Bank of England (or any successor administrator), to which the Calculation Agent shall apply the most recently published spread, as at the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (SONIA), referred to in the definition of “Fallback Rate (SONIA)” after making such adjustments to SONIA as are necessary to account for any difference in term structure or tenor of SONIA by comparison to Fallback Rate (SONIA) and by reference to the Bloomberg IBOR Fallback Rate Adjustments Rule Book. If a Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date occurs with respect to each of Fallback Rate (SONIA) and SONIA, then the Applicable Fallback Rate for any Fallback Observation Day that occurs on or after the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (SONIA) (or, if later, the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to SONIA) will be the GBP Recommended Rate, to which the Calculation Agent shall apply the most recently published spread, as at the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (SONIA), referred to in the definition of “Fallback Rate (SONIA)” after making such adjustments to the GBP Recommended Rate as are necessary to account for any difference in term structure or tenor of the GBP Recommended Rate by comparison to Fallback Rate (SONIA) and by reference to the Bloomberg IBOR Fallback Rate Adjustments Rule Book. If there is no GBP Recommended Rate before the end of the first London Banking Day (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions) following the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (SONIA) (or, if later, the end of the first London Banking Day following the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to SONIA), or there is a GBP Recommended Rate and a Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date subsequently
occurs with respect to it, then the Applicable Fallback Rate for any Fallback Observation Day that occurs on or after the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (SONIA) (or, if later, the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to SONIA) or the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to the GBP Recommended Rate (as applicable) will be the UK Bank Rate, to which the Calculation Agent shall apply the most recently published spread, as at the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (SONIA), referred to in the definition of “Fallback Rate (SONIA)” after making such adjustments to the UK Bank Rate as are necessary to account for any difference in term structure or tenor of the UK Bank Rate by comparison to Fallback Rate (SONIA) and by reference to the Bloomberg IBOR Fallback Rate Adjustments Rule Book;
(b) Swiss franc LIBOR, Fallback Rate (SARON) or if a Fallback Index Cessation Event has occurred with respect to Fallback Rate (SARON), then the Applicable Fallback Rate for any Fallback Observation Day that occurs on or after the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (SARON) will be the Swiss Average Rate Overnight (“SARON”) administered by SIX Swiss Exchange AG (or any successor administrator), to which the Calculation Agent shall apply the most recently published spread, as at the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (SARON), referred to in the definition of “Fallback Rate (SARON)” after making such adjustments to SARON as are necessary to account for any difference in term structure or tenor of SARON by comparison to Fallback Rate (SARON) and by reference to the Bloomberg IBOR Fallback Rate Adjustments Rule Book.
If a Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date occurs with respect to each of Fallback Rate (SARON) and SARON, then the Applicable Fallback Rate for any Fallback Observation Day that occurs on or after the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (SARON) (or, if later, the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to SARON) will be the NWG Recommended Rate, to which the Calculation Agent shall apply the most recently published spread, as at the Fallback Index cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (SARON), referred to in the definition of “Fallback Rate (SARON)” after making such adjustments to the NWG Recommended Rate as are necessary to account for any difference in term structure or tenor of the NWG Recommended Rate by comparison to Fallback Rate (SARON) and by reference to the Bloomberg IBOR Fallback Rate Adjustments Rule Book.
If there is no NWG Recommended Rate before the end of the first Zurich Banking Day (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions) following the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (SARON) (or, if later, the end of the first Zurich Banking Day following the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to SARON), then the Applicable Fallback Rate for any Fallback Observation Day that occurs on or after the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (SARON) (or, if later, the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to SARON) will be the Modified SNB Policy Rate, to which the Calculation Agent shall apply the most recently published spread, as at the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (SARON), referred to in the definition of “Fallback Rate (SARON)” after making such adjustments to the Modified SNB Policy Rate as are necessary to account for any difference in term structure or tenor of the Modified SNB Policy Rate by comparison to Fallback Rate (SARON) and by reference to the Bloomberg IBOR Fallback Rate Adjustments Rule Book;
(c) U.S. dollar LIBOR, Fallback Rate (SOFR) or if a Fallback Index Cessation Event has occurred with respect to Fallback Rate (SOFR), then the Applicable Fallback Rate for any Fallback Observation Day that occurs on or after the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (SOFR) will be the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) administered by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (or any successor administrator), to which the Calculation Agent shall apply the most recently published spread, as at the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (SOFR), referred to in the definition of “Fallback Rate (SOFR)” after making such adjustments to SOFR as are necessary to account for any difference in term structure or tenor of SOFR by comparison to Fallback Rate (SOFR) and by reference to the Bloomberg IBOR Fallback Rate Adjustments Rule Book.
If a Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date occurs with respect to each of Fallback Rate (SOFR) and SOFR, then the Applicable Fallback Rate for any Fallback Observation Day that occurs on or after the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (SOFR) (or, if later, the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to SOFR) will be the Fed Recommended Rate, to which the Calculation Agent shall apply the most recently published spread, as at the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (SOFR), referred to in the definition of “Fallback Rate (SOFR)” after making such adjustments to the Fed Recommended Rate as are necessary to account for any difference in term structure or tenor
of the Fed Recommended Rate by comparison to Fallback Rate (SOFR) and by reference to the Bloomberg IBOR Fallback Rate Adjustments Rule Book. If there is no Fed Recommended Rate before the end of the first U.S. Government Securities Business Day (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions) following the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (SOFR) (or, if later, the end of the first U.S. Government Securities Business Day following the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to SOFR), or there is a Fed Recommended Rate and a Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date subsequently occurs with respect to it, then the Applicable Fallback Rate for any Fallback Observation Day that occurs on or after the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (SOFR) (or, if later, the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to SOFR) or the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to the Fed Recommended Rate (as applicable) will be OBFR, to which the Calculation Agent shall apply the most recently published spread, as at the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (SOFR), referred to in the definition of “Fallback Rate (SOFR)” after making such adjustments to OBFR as are necessary to account for any difference in term structure or tenor of OBFR by comparison to Fallback Rate (SOFR) and by reference to the Bloomberg IBOR Fallback Rate Adjustments Rule Book.
If there is no Fed Recommended Rate, or there is a Fed Recommended Rate and a Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date subsequently occurs with respect to it, and a Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date also occurs with respect to OBFR, then the Applicable Fallback Rate for any Fallback Observation Day that occurs on or after the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to OBFR (or, if later, the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to the Fed Recommended Rate, SOFR or Fallback Rate (SOFR), as applicable) will be the FOMC Target Rate, to which the Calculation Agent shall apply the most recently published spread, as at the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (SOFR), referred to in the definition of “Fallback Rate (SOFR)” after making such adjustments to the FOMC Target Rate as are necessary to account for any difference in term structure or tenor of the FOMC Target Rate by comparison to Fallback Rate (SOFR) and by reference to the Bloomberg IBOR Fallback Rate Adjustments Rule Book;
(d) Euro LIBOR and the euro interbank offered rate, Fallback Rate (EuroSTR) or if a Fallback Index Cessation Event has occurred with respect to Fallback Rate (EuroSTR), then the Applicable Fallback Rate for any Fallback Observation Day that occurs on or after the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (EuroSTR) will be the Euro Short-Term Rate (“EuroSTR”) administered by the European Central Bank (or any successor administrator), to which the Calculation Agent shall apply the most recently published spread, as at the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (EuroSTR), referred to in the definition of “Fallback Rate (EuroSTR)” after making such adjustments to EuroSTR as are necessary to account for any difference in term structure or tenor of EuroSTR by comparison to Fallback Rate (EuroSTR) and by reference to the Bloomberg IBOR Fallback Rate Adjustments Rule Book. If a Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date occurs with respect to each of Fallback Rate (EuroSTR) and EuroSTR, then the Applicable Fallback Rate for any Fallback Observation Day that occurs on or after the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (EuroSTR) (or, if later, the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to EuroSTR) will be the ECB Recommended Rate, to which the Calculation Agent shall apply the most recently published spread, as at the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (EuroSTR), referred to in the definition of “Fallback Rate (EuroSTR)” after making such adjustments to the ECB Recommended Rate as are necessary to account for any difference in term structure or tenor of the ECB Recommended Rate by comparison to Fallback Rate (EuroSTR) and by reference to the Bloomberg IBOR Fallback Rate Adjustments Rule Book.
If no ECB Recommended Rate is recommended before the end of the first TARGET Settlement Day (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions) following the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (EuroSTR) (or, if later, the end of the first TARGET Settlement Day following the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to EuroSTR), or a Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to the ECB Recommended Rate subsequently occurs, then the Applicable Fallback Rate for any Fallback Observation Day that occurs on or after the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (EuroSTR) (or, if later, the Fallback IndexCessation Effective Date with respect to EuroSTR) or the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to the ECB Recommended Rate (as applicable) will be Modified EDFR, to which the Calculation Agent shall apply the most recently published spread, as at the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (EuroSTR), referred to in the definition of “Fallback Rate (EuroSTR)” after making such adjustments to Modified EDFR
as are necessary to account for any difference in term structure or tenor of Modified EDFR by comparison to Fallback Rate (EuroSTR) and by reference to the Bloomberg IBOR Fallback Rate Adjustments Rule Book;
(e) Japanese yen LIBOR, the Japanese yen Tokyo interbank offered rate and the euroyen Tokyo interbank offered rate, Fallback Rate (TONA) or if a Fallback Index Cessation Event has occurred with respect to Fallback Rate (TONA), then the Applicable Fallback Rate for any Fallback Observation Day that occurs on or after the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (TONA) will be the Tokyo Overnight Average Rate (“TONA”) administered by the Bank of Japan (or any successor administrator), to which the Calculation Agent shall apply the most recently published spread, as at the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (TONA), referred to in the definition of “Fallback Rate (TONA)” after making such adjustments to TONA as are necessary to account for any difference in term structure or tenor of TONA by comparison to Fallback Rate (TONA) and by reference to the Bloomberg IBOR Fallback Rate Adjustments Rule Book. If a Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date occurs with respect to each of Fallback Rate (TONA) and TONA, then the Applicable Fallback Rate for any Fallback Observation Day that occurs on or after the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (TONA) (or, if later, the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to TONA) will be the JPY Recommended Rate, to which the Calculation Agent shall apply the most recently published spread, as at the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (TONA), referred to in the definition of “Fallback Rate (TONA)” after making such adjustments to the JPY Recommended Rate as are necessary to account for any difference in term structure or tenor of the JPY Recommended Rate by comparison to Fallback Rate (TONA) and by reference to the Bloomberg IBOR Fallback Rate Adjustments Rule Book;
(f) The bank bill swap rate, Fallback Rate (AONIA) or if a Fallback Index Cessation Event has occurred with respect to Fallback Rate (AONIA), then the Applicable Fallback Rate for any Fallback Observation Day that occurs on or after the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (AONIA) will be the interbank overnight cash rate (“AONIA”) administered by the Reserve Bank of Australia (or any successor administrator), to which the Calculation Agent shall apply the most recently published spread, as at the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (AONIA), referred to in the definition of “Fallback Rate (AONIA)” after making such adjustments to AONIA as are necessary to account for any difference in term structure or tenor of AONIA by comparison to Fallback Rate (AONIA) and by reference to the Bloomberg IBOR Fallback Rate Adjustments Rule Book. If a Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date occurs with respect to each of Fallback Rate (AONIA) and AONIA, then the Applicable Fallback Rate for any Fallback Observation Day that occurs on or after the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (AONIA) (or, if later, the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to AONIA) will be the RBA Recommended Rate, to which the Calculation Agent shall apply the most recently published spread, as at the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (AONIA), referred to in the definition of “Fallback Rate (AONIA)” after making such adjustments to the RBA Recommended Rate as are necessary to account for any difference in term structure or tenor of the RBA Recommended Rate by comparison to Fallback Rate (AONIA) and by reference to the Bloomberg IBOR Fallback Rate Adjustments Rule Book;
(g) The Canadian dollar offered rate, Fallback Rate (CORRA) or if a Fallback Index Cessation Event has occurred with respect to Fallback Rate (CORRA), then the Applicable Fallback Rate for any Fallback Observation Day that occurs on or after the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (CORRA) will be the Canadian Overnight Repo Rate Average (“CORRA”) administered by the Bank of Canada (or any successor administrator), to which the Calculation Agent shall apply the most recently published spread, as at the fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (CORRA), referred to in the definition of “Fallback Rate (CORRA)” after making such adjustments to CORRA as are necessary to account for any difference in term structure or tenor of CORRA by comparison to Fallback Rate (CORRA) and by reference to the Bloomberg IBOR Fallback Rate Adjustments Rule Book. If a Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date occurs with respect to each of Fallback Rate (CORRA) and CORRA, then the Applicable Fallback Rate for any Fallback Observation Day that occurs on or after the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (CORRA) (or, if later, the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to CORRA) will be the CAD Recommended Rate, to which the Calculation Agent shall apply the most recently published spread, as at the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (CORRA), referred to in the definition of “Fallback Rate (CORRA)” after making such adjustments to the CAD Recommended Rate as are necessary to account
for any difference in term structure or tenor of the CAD Recommended Rate by comparison to Fallback Rate (CORRA) and by reference to the Bloomberg IBOR Fallback Rate Adjustments Rule Book. If there is no CAD Recommended Rate before the end of the first Toronto Banking Day (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions) following the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (CORRA) (or, if later, the end of the first Toronto Banking Day following the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to CORRA), or there is a CAD Recommended Rate and a Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date subsequently occurs with respect to it, then the Applicable Fallback Rate for any Fallback Observation Day that occurs on or after the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (CORRA) (or, if later, the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to CORRA) or the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to the CAD Recommended Rate (as applicable) will be the BOC Target Rate, to which the Calculation Agent shall apply the most recently published spread, as at the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (CORRA), referred to in the definition of “Fallback Rate (CORRA)” after making such adjustments to the BOC Target Rate as are necessary to account for any difference in term structure or tenor of the BOC Target Rate by comparison to Fallback Rate (CORRA) and by reference to the Bloomberg IBOR Fallback Rate Adjustments Rule Book;
(h) The Hong Kong interbank offered rate, Fallback Rate (HONIA) or if a Fallback Index Cessation Event has occurred with respect to Fallback Rate (HONIA), then the Applicable Fallback Rate for any Fallback Observation Day that occurs on or after the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (HONIA) will be the Hong Kong Dollar Overnight Index Average (“HONIA”) rate administered by the Treasury Markets Association (or any successor administrator), to which the Calculation Agent shall apply the most recently published spread, as at the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (HONIA), referred to in the definition of “Fallback Rate (HONIA)” after making such adjustments to HONIA as are necessary to account for any difference in term structure or tenor of HONIA by comparison to Fallback Rate (HONIA) and by reference to the Bloomberg IBOR Fallback Rate Adjustments Rule Book. If a Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date occurs with respect to each of Fallback Rate (HONIA) and HONIA, then the Applicable Fallback Rate for any Fallback Observation Day that occurs on or after the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (HONIA) (or, if later, the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to HONIA) will be the HKD Recommended Rate, to which the Calculation Agent shall apply the most recently published spread, as at the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (HONIA), referred to in the definition of “Fallback Rate (HONIA)” after making such adjustments to the HKD Recommended Rate as are necessary to account for any difference in term structure or tenor of the HKD Recommended Rate by comparison to Fallback Rate (HONIA) and by reference to the Bloomberg IBOR Fallback Rate Adjustments Rule Book; the Singapore dollar swap offer rate, Fallback Rate (SOR) or if a Fallback Index Cessation Event has occurred with respect to Fallback Rate (SOR), then the Applicable Fallback Rate for any Fallback Observation Day that occurs on or after the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (SOR) will be the MAS Recommended Rate or, if there is no MAS Recommended Rate before the end of the first Singapore Banking Day (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions) following the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (SOR), or there is a MAS Recommended Rate and a Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date subsequently occurs with respect to it, then the Applicable Fallback Rate for any Fallback Observation Day that occurs on or after the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (SOR) or the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to the MAS Recommended Rate (as applicable) will be SORA, to which the Calculation Agent shall make such adjustments as are necessary to account for any difference in term structure or tenor of SORA by comparison to Fallback Rate (SOR) and by reference to the Calculation Methodology for Fallback Rate (SOR); and
(i) The Thai baht interest rate fixing, Fallback Rate (THBFIX) or if a Fallback Index Cessation Event has occurred with respect to Fallback Rate (THBFIX), then the Applicable Fallback Rate for any Fallback Observation Day that occurs on or after the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (THBFIX) will be the BOT Recommended Rate or, if there is no BOT Recommended Rate before the end of the first Bangkok Banking Day (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions) following the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (THBFIX), or there is a BOT Recommended Rate and a Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date subsequently occurs with respect to it, then the Applicable Fallback Rate for any Fallback Observation Day that occurs on or after the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (THBFIX) or the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to the BOT Recommended Rate
(as applicable) will be THOR, to which the Calculation Agent shall make such adjustments as are necessary to account for any difference in term structure or tenor of THOR by comparison to Fallback Rate (THBFIX) and by reference to the Bank of Thailand THBFIX Fallback Rate Adjustments Rule Book.
“
Bank of Thailand THBFIX Fallback Rate Adjustments Rule Book
” means the THBFIX Fallback Rate Adjustments Rule Book published by the Bank of Thailand as updated from time to time.
“
Bloomberg IBOR Fallback Rate Adjustments Rule Book
” means the IBOR Fallback Rate Adjustments Rule Book published by Bloomberg Index Services Limited (or a successor provider as approved and/or appointed by ISDA from time to time) as updated from time to time in accordance with its terms.
“
BOC Target Rate
” means the Bank of Canada's Target for the Overnight Rate as set by the Bank of Canada and published on the Bank of Canada's website (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions).
“
BOT Recommended Rate
” means the rate (inclusive of any spreads or adjustments) recommended as the replacement for Fallback Rate (THBFIX) by the Bank of Thailand or by a committee officially endorsed or convened by the Bank of Thailand (which rate may be produced by the Bank of Thailand or another administrator) and as provided by the administrator of that rate in respect of the day for which that rate is required (which under the 2006 ISDA Definitions would be the “Reset Date”) or, if that rate is not provided by the administrator of that rate (or a successor administrator), published by an authorized distributor.
“
CAD Recommended Rate
” means the rate (inclusive of any spreads or adjustments) recommended as the replacement for CORRA by a committee officially endorsed or convened by the Bank of Canada for the purpose of recommending a replacement for CORRA (which rate may be produced by the Bank of Canada or another administrator) and as provided by the administrator of that rate or, if that rate is not provided by the administrator thereof (or a successor administrator), published by an authorized distributor. “Calculation Methodology for Fallback Rate (SOR)” means the Calculation Methodology for Fallback Rate (SOR) published by ABS Benchmarks Administration Co Pte. Ltd. as updated from time to time.
“
ECB Recommended Rate
” means the rate (inclusive of any spreads or adjustments) recommended as the replacement for EuroSTR by the European Central Bank (or any successor administrator of EuroSTR) and/or by a committee officially endorsed or convened by the European Central Bank (or any successor administrator of EuroSTR) for the purpose of recommending a replacement for EuroSTR (which rate may be produced by the European Central Bank or another administrator) and as provided by the administrator of that rate or, if that rate is not provided by the administrator thereof (or a successor administrator), published by an authorized distributor.
“
EDFR Spread
” means:
(a) If no ECB Recommended Rate is recommended before the end of the first TARGET Settlement Day (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions) following the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to Fallback Rate (EuroSTR) (or, if later, before the end of the first TARGET Settlement Day following the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date with respect to EuroSTR), the arithmetic mean of the daily difference between EuroSTR and the Eurosystem Deposit Facility Rate over an observation period of 30 TARGET Settlement Days starting 30 TARGET Settlement Days prior to the day on which the Fallback Index Cessation Event with respect to Fallback Rate (EuroSTR) occurs (or, if later, 30 TARGET Settlement Days prior to the day on which the first Fallback Index Cessation Event with respect to EuroSTR occurs) and ending on the TARGET Settlement Day immediately preceding the day on which the Fallback Index Cessation Event with respect to Fallback Rate (EuroSTR) occurs (or, if later, the TARGET Settlement Day immediately preceding the day on which the first Fallback Index Cessation Event with respect to EuroSTR occurs); or
(b) If a Fallback Index Cessation Event with respect to the ECB Recommended Rate occurs, the arithmetic mean of the daily difference between the ECB Recommended Rate and the Eurosystem Deposit Facility Rate over an observation period of 30 TARGET Settlement Days starting 30 TARGET Settlement Days prior to the day on which the Fallback Index Cessation Event with respect to the ECB Recommended Rate occurs and ending on the TARGET Settlement Day immediately preceding the day on which that Fallback Index Cessation Event occurs.
“
Eurosystem Deposit Facility Rate
” means the rate on the deposit facility, which banks may use to make overnight deposits with the Eurosystem and which is published on the ECB's website (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions).
“
Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date
” means, in respect of a Fallback Index Cessation Event, the first date on which the Applicable Fallback Rate is no longer provided. If the Applicable Fallback Rate ceases to be provided on the same day that it would have been observed but it was provided at the time at which it is ordinarily observed (or, if no such time is specified, at the time at which it is ordinarily published), then the Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date will
be the next day on which the rate would ordinarily have been published. If the Applicable Fallback Rate is the Modified SNB Policy Rate or Modified EDFR, references to the Applicable Fallback Rate in this definition of “Fallback Index Cessation Effective Date” shall be deemed to be references to the index, benchmark or other price source that is referred to in the definition of Modified SNB Policy Rate or Modified EDFR, as applicable.
“
Fallback Index Cessation Event
” means, in respect of an Applicable Fallback Rate:
(a) A public statement or publication of information by or on behalf of the administrator or provider of the Applicable Fallback Rate announcing that it has ceased or will cease to provide the Applicable FallbackRate permanently or indefinitely, provided that, at the time of the statement or publication, there is no successor administrator or provider that will continue to provide the Applicable Fallback Rate; or
(b) If the Applicable Fallback Rate is:
(i) Fallback Rate (SONIA), Fallback Rate (SARON), Fallback Rate (SOFR), Fallback Rate (EuroSTR), Fallback Rate (TONA), Fallback Rate (AONIA), Fallback Rate (CORRA) or Fallback Rate (HONIA), a public statement or publication of information by the regulatory supervisor for the administrator of the Underlying Rate, the central bank for the currency of the Underlying Rate, an insolvency official with jurisdiction over the administrator for the Underlying Rate, a resolution authority with jurisdiction over the administrator for the Underlying Rate or a court or an entity with similar insolvency or resolution authority over the administrator for the Underlying Rate, which states that the administrator of the Underlying Rate has ceased or will cease to provide the Underlying Rate permanently or indefinitely, provided that, at the time of the statement or publication, there is no successor administrator that will continue to provide the Underlying Rate; or
(ii) SONIA, the GBP Recommended Rate, SARON, the NWG Recommended Rate, the Modified SNB Policy Rate, SOFR, the Fed Recommended Rate, OBFR, the FOMC Target Rate, EuroSTR, the ECB Recommended Rate, Modified EDFR, TONA, the JPY Recommended Rate, AONIA, the RBA Recommended Rate, CORRA, the CAD Recommended Rate, the BOC Target Rate, HONIA, the HKD Recommended Rate, Fallback Rate (SOR), the MAS Recommended Rate, SORA, Fallback Rate (THBFIX), the BOT Recommended Rate or THOR, a public statement or publication of information by the regulatory supervisor for the administrator or provider of the Applicable Fallback Rate, the central bank for the currency of the Applicable Fallback Rate, an insolvency official with jurisdiction over the administrator or provider for the Applicable Fallback Rate, a resolution authority with jurisdiction over the administrator or provider for the Applicable Fallback Rate or a court or an entity with similar insolvency or resolution authority over the administrator or provider for the Applicable Fallback Rate, which states that the administrator or provider of the Applicable Fallback Rate has ceased or will cease to provide the Applicable Fallback Rate permanently or indefinitely, provided that, at the time of the statement or publication, there is no successor administrator or provider that will continue to provide the Applicable Fallback Rate.
If the Applicable Fallback Rate is the Modified SNB Policy Rate or Modified EDFR, references to the administrator or provider of such rate in this definition of “Fallback Index Cessation Event” shall be deemed to be references to the administrator or provider of the index, benchmark or other price source that is referred to in the definition of Modified SNB Policy Rate or Modified EDFR, as applicable.
“
Fallback Observation Day
” means, in respect of an Applicable Fallback Rate and unless otherwise agreed, the day that is two Business Days (as defined in the relevant Protocol Covered Document or, if that term is not defined therein, as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions and, in each case, for the purposes of the payment which is calculated by reference to that Applicable Fallback Rate) preceding the day on which payment by reference to that rate is due (which under the 2006 ISDA Definitions would be equivalent to the “Payment Date”).
“
Fallback Rate (AONIA)
” means the term adjusted AONIA plus the spread relating to the bank bill swap rate, in each case, for the period of time in respect of which the Relevant IBOR is to be determined provided by Bloomberg Index Services Limited (or a successor provider as approved and/or appointed by ISDA from time to time), as the provider of term adjusted AONIA and the spread, on the Fallback Rate (AONIA) Screen (or by other means) or provided to, and published by, authorized distributors at, or prior to, the Applicable Cut-off Time.
“
Fallback Rate (AONIA) Screen
” means the Bloomberg Screen (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions) corresponding to the Bloomberg ticker for the fallback for the bank bill swap rate for the period of time in respect of which the Relevant IBOR is to be determined accessed via the Bloomberg Screen
FBAK
GO
Page (or, if applicable, accessed via the Bloomberg Screen
HP
GO
) or any other published source designated by Bloomberg Index Services Limited (or a successor provider as approved and/or appointed by ISDA from time to time).
“
Fallback Rate (CORRA)
” means the term adjusted CORRA plus the spread relating to the Canadian dollar offered rate, in each
case, for the period of time in respect of which the Relevant IBOR is to be determined provided by Bloomberg Index Services Limited (or a successor provider as approved and/or appointed by ISDA from time to time), as the provider of term adjusted CORRA and the spread, on the Fallback Rate (CORRA) Screen (or by other means) or provided to, and published by, authorized distributors at, or prior to, the Applicable Cut-off Time.
“
Fallback Rate (CORRA) Screen
” means the Bloomberg Screen (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions) corresponding to the Bloomberg ticker for the fallback for the Canadian dollar offered rate for the period of time in respect of which the Relevant IBOR is to be determined accessed via the Bloomberg Screen
FBAK
GO
Page (or, if applicable, accessed via the Bloomberg Screen
HP
GO
) or any other published source designated by Bloomberg Index Services Limited (or a successor provider as approved and/or appointed by ISDA from time to time).
“
Fallback Rate (EuroSTR)
” means:
(a) The term adjusted EuroSTR; plus
(b) If the Relevant IBOR is:
(i) Euro LIBOR, the spread relating to euro LIBOR; or
(ii) The euro interbank offered rate, the spread relating to the euro interbank offered rate, in each case, for the period of time in respect of which the Relevant IBOR is to be determined provided by Bloomberg Index Services Limited (or a successor provider as approved and/or appointed by ISDA from time to time), as the provider of term adjusted EuroSTR and the spread, on the Fallback Rate (EuroSTR) Screen (or by other means) or provided to, and published by, authorized distributors at, or prior to, the Applicable Cut-off Time.
“
Fallback Rate (EuroSTR) Screen
” means the Bloomberg Screen (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions) corresponding to the Bloomberg ticker for the fallback for euro LIBOR or the euro interbank offered rate, as applicable, for the period of time in respect of which the Relevant IBOR is to be determined accessed via the Bloomberg Screen
FBAK
GO
Page (or, if applicable, accessed via the Bloomberg Screen
HP
GO
) or any other published source designated by Bloomberg Index Services Limited (or a successor provider as approved and/or appointed by ISDA from time to time).
“
Fallback Rate (HONIA)
” means the term adjusted HONIA rate plus the spread relating to the Hong Kong interbank offered rate, in each case, for the period of time in respect of which the Relevant IBOR is to be determined provided by Bloomberg Index Services Limited (or a successor provider as approved and/or appointed by ISDA from time to time), as the provider of term adjusted HONIA and the spread, on the Fallback Rate (HONIA) Screen (or by other means) or provided to, and published by, authorized distributors at, or prior to, the Applicable Cut-off Time.
“
Fallback Rate (HONIA) Screen
” means the Bloomberg Screen (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions) corresponding to the Bloomberg ticker for the fallback for the Hong Kong interbank offered rate for the period of time in respect of which the Relevant IBOR is to be determined accessed via the Bloomberg Screen
FBAK
GO
Page (or, if applicable, accessed via the Bloomberg Screen
HP
GO
) or any other published source designated by Bloomberg Index Services Limited (or a successor provider as approved and/or appointed by ISDA from time to time).
“
Fallback Rate (SARON)
” means the term adjusted SARON plus the spread relating to Swiss franc LIBOR, in each case, for the period of time in respect of which the Relevant IBOR is to be determined provided by Bloomberg Index Services Limited (or a successor provider as approved and/or appointed by ISDA from time to time), as the provider of term adjusted SARON and the spread, on the Fallback Rate (SARON) Screen (or by other means) or provided to, and published by, authorized distributors at, or prior to, the Applicable Cut-off Time.
“
Fallback Rate (SARON) Screen
” means the Bloomberg Screen (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions) corresponding to the Bloomberg ticker for the fallback for Swiss franc LIBOR for the period of time in respect of which the Relevant IBOR is to be determined accessed via the Bloomberg Screen
FBAK
GO
Page (or, if applicable, accessed via the Bloomberg Screen
HP
GO
) or any other published source designated by Bloomberg Index Services Limited (or a successor provider as approved and/or appointed by ISDA from time to time).
“
Fallback Rate Screen
” means, if the Applicable Fallback Rate is: (a) Fallback Rate (SONIA), the Fallback Rate (SONIA) Screen; (b) Fallback Rate (SARON), the Fallback Rate (SARON) Screen; (c) Fallback Rate (SOFR), the Fallback Rate (SOFR) Screen; (d) Fallback Rate (EuroSTR), the Fallback Rate (EuroSTR) Screen; (e) Fallback Rate (TONA), the Fallback Rate (TONA) Screen; (f) Fallback Rate (AONIA), the Fallback Rate (AONIA) Screen; (g) Fallback Rate (CORRA), the Fallback Rate (CORRA) Screen, (h) Fallback Rate (HONIA), the Fallback Rate (HONIA) Screen, (i) Fallback Rate (SOR), the Fallback Rate (SOR) Screen; and (j) Fallback Rate (THBFIX), the Fallback Rate (THBFIX) Screen.
“
Fallback Rate (SOFR)
” means the term adjusted SOFR plus the spread relating to U.S. dollar LIBOR, in each case, for the period of time in respect of which the Relevant IBOR is to be determined provided by Bloomberg Index Services Limited (or a successor provider as approved and/or appointed by ISDA from time to time), as the provider of term
adjusted SOFR and the spread, on the Fallback Rate (SOFR) Screen (or by other means) or provided to, and published by, authorized distributors at, or prior to, the Applicable Cut-off Time.
“
Fallback Rate (SOFR) Screen
” means the Bloomberg Screen (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions) corresponding to the Bloomberg ticker for the fallback for U.S. dollar LIBOR for the period of time in respect of which the Relevant IBOR is to be determined accessed via the Bloomberg Screen
FBAK
GO
Page (or, if applicable, accessed via the Bloomberg Screen
HP
GO
) or any other published source designated by Bloomberg Index Services Limited (or a successor provider as approved and/or appointed by ISDA from time to time).
“
Fallback Rate (SONIA)
” means the term adjusted SONIA rate plus the spread relating to sterling LIBOR, in each case, for the period of time in respect of which the Relevant IBOR is to be determined provided by Bloomberg Index Services Limited (or a successor provider as approved and/or appointed by ISDA from time to time), as the provider of term adjusted SONIA and the spread, on the Fallback Rate (SONIA) Screen (or by other means) or provided to, and published by, authorized distributors at, or prior to, the Applicable Cut-off Time.
“
Fallback Rate (SONIA) Screen
” means the Bloomberg Screen (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions) corresponding to the Bloomberg ticker for the fallback for sterling LIBOR for the period of time in respect of which the Relevant IBOR is to be determined accessed via the Bloomberg Screen
FBAK
GO
Page (or, if applicable, accessed via the Bloomberg Screen
HP
GO
) or any other published source designated by Bloomberg Index Services Limited (or a successor provider as approved and/or appointed by ISDA from time to time).
“
Fallback Rate (SOR)
” means the rate based on actual transactions in the U.S. dollar/Singapore dollar foreign exchange swap market and a U.S. dollar interest rate calculated by reference to “Fallback Rate (SOFR)” as defined above and including any fallback rate that may apply pursuant to subparagraph (c) of the definition of “Applicable Fallback Rate” above for the period of time in respect of which the Relevant IBOR is to be determined provided by ABS Benchmarks Administration Co Pte. Ltd. (or a successor provider), as the provider of Fallback Rate (SOR), on the Fallback Rate (SOR) Screen (or by other means) or provided to, and published by, authorized distributors at, or prior to, the Applicable Cut-off Time.
“
Fallback Rate (SOR) Screen
” means the Refinitiv Screen (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions) corresponding to the Refinitiv ticker for the fallback for the Singapore dollar swap offer rate for the period of time in respect of which the Relevant IBOR is to be determined accessed via the Refinitiv Screen
FBKSORFIX
(or, if applicable, accessed via the relevant Refinitiv Screen for `price history') or any other published source designated by ABS Benchmarks Administration Co Pte. Ltd. (or a successor provider).
“
Fallback Rate (THBFIX)
” means the rate based on actual transactions in the U.S. dollar/Thai baht foreign exchange swap market and a U.S. dollar interest rate calculated by reference to “Fallback Rate (SOFR)” as defined above and including any fallback rate that may apply pursuant to subparagraph (c) of the definition of “Applicable Fallback Rate” above for the period of time in respect of which the Relevant IBOR is to be determined provided by the Bank of Thailand (or a successor provider), as the provider of Fallback Rate (THBFIX), on the Fallback Rate (THBFIX) Screen (or by other means) or provided to, and published by, authorized distributors at, or prior to, the Applicable Cut-off Time.
“
Fallback Rate (THBFIX) Screen
” means the Refinitiv Screen (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions) corresponding to the Refinitiv ticker for the fallback for the Thai baht interest rate fixing for the period of time in respect of which the Relevant IBOR is to be determined accessed via the Refinitiv Screen
FBKTHBFIX
(or, if applicable, accessed via the relevant Refinitiv Screen for `price history') or any other published source designated by the Bank of Thailand (or a successor provider).
“
Fallback Rate (TONA)
” means:
(a) The term adjusted TONA; plus
(b) If the Relevant IBOR is:
(i) Japanese yen LIBOR, the spread relating to Japanese yen LIBOR;
(ii) The Japanese yen Tokyo interbank offered rate, the spread relating to the Japanese yen Tokyo interbank offered rate; or the euroyen Tokyo interbank offered rate, the spread relating to the euroyen Tokyo interbank offered rate, in each case, for the period of time in respect of which the Relevant IBOR is to be determined provided by Bloomberg Index Services Limited (or a successor provider as approved and/or appointed by ISDA from time to time), as the provider of term adjusted TONA and the spread, on the Fallback Rate (TONA) Screen (or by other means) or provided to, and published by, authorized distributors at, or prior to, the Applicable Cut-off Time.
“
Fallback Rate (TONA) Screen
” means the Bloomberg Screen (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions) corresponding to the Bloomberg ticker for the fallback for Japanese yen LIBOR, the Japanese yen Tokyo interbank offered rate or the euroyen Tokyo interbank offered rate, as applicable, for the period of time in respect of which the Relevant IBOR is to be determined accessed via the Bloomberg Screen
FBAK
GO
Page (or, if applicable, accessed via the Bloomberg
Screen
HP
GO
) or any other published source designated by Bloomberg Index Services Limited (or a successor provider as approved and/or appointed by ISDA from time to time).
“
Fed Recommended Rate
” means the rate (inclusive of any spreads or adjustments) recommended as the replacement for SOFR by the Federal Reserve Board or the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or by a committee officially endorsed or convened by the Federal Reserve Board or the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for the purpose of recommending a replacement for SOFR (which rate may be produced by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or another administrator) and as provided by the administrator of that rate or, if that rate is not provided by the administrator thereof (or a successor administrator), published by an authorized distributor.
“
FOMC Target Rate
” means the short-term interest rate target set by the Federal Open Market Committee and published on the Federal Reserve's website (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions) or, if the Federal Open Market Committee does not target a single rate, the mid-point of the short-term interest rate target range set by the Federal Open Market Committee and published on the Federal Reserve's website (calculated as the arithmetic average of the upper bound of the target range and the lower bound of the target range, rounded, if necessary, in accordance with the method set forth in Section 8.1(c) of the 2006 ISDA Definitions).
“
GBP Recommended Rate
” means the rate (inclusive of any spreads or adjustments) recommended as the replacement for SONIA by (a) the administrator of SONIA if the administrator of SONIA is a national central bank, or (b) if the national central bank administrator of SONIA does not make a recommendation or the administrator of SONIA is not a national central bank, a committee designated for this purpose by one or both of the Financial Conduct Authority (or any successor thereto) and the Bank of England and as provided by the then administrator of that rate (or a successor administrator) or, if that rate is not provided by the administrator thereof (or a successor administrator), published by an authorized distributor.
“
HKD Recommended Rate
” means the rate (inclusive of any spreads or adjustments) recommended as the replacement for HONIA by the administrator of HONIA or by a committee officially endorsed or convened by the administrator of HONIA for the purpose of recommending a replacement for HONIA (which rate may be produced by the administrator of HONIA or another administrator) and as provided by the administrator of that rate or, if that rate is not provided by the administrator thereof (or a successor administrator), published by an authorized distributor.
“
Index Cessation Effective Date
” means, in respect of a Relevant IBOR (or, if either the Singapore dollar swap offer rate or the Thai baht interest rate fixing is the Relevant IBOR, U.S. dollar LIBOR) and one or more Index Cessation Events, the first date on which the Relevant IBOR (or, if either the Singapore dollar swap offer rate or the Thai baht interest rate fixing is the Relevant IBOR, U.S. dollar LIBOR) is either (a) in respect of a Relevant LIBOR (or, if the Relevant IBOR is the Singapore dollar swap offer rate or the Thai baht interest rate fixing, in respect of U.S. dollar LIBOR), Non-Representative by reference to the most recent statement or publication contemplated in subparagraph (c) of the definition of “Index Cessation Event” below and even if such rate continues to be provided on such date or (b) no longer provided. If the Relevant IBOR (or, if either the Singapore dollar swap offer rate or the Thai baht interest rate fixing is the Relevant IBOR, U.S. dollar LIBOR) ceases to be provided on the Relevant Original Fixing Date but it was provided (and, in respect of a Relevant LIBOR (or, if the Relevant IBOR is the Singapore dollar swap offer rate or the Thai baht interest rate fixing, in respect of U.S. dollar LIBOR), is not Non-Representative) at the time at which it is ordinarily observed, then the Index Cessation Effective Date will be the next day on which the rate would ordinarily have been published. An Index Cessation Effective Date may also occur in accordance with paragraph 6(d), subparagraph 6(e)(ii) or subparagraph 6(e)(iii) above.
“
Index Cessation Event
” means, in respect of a Relevant IBOR:
(a) A public statement or publication of information by or on behalf of the administrator of the Relevant IBOR announcing that it has ceased or will cease to provide the Relevant IBOR permanently or indefinitely, provided that, at the time of the statement or publication, there is no successor administrator that will continue to provide the Relevant IBOR;
(b) A public statement or publication of information by the regulatory supervisor for the administrator of the Relevant IBOR, the central bank for the currency of the Relevant IBOR, an insolvency official with jurisdiction over the administrator for the Relevant IBOR, a resolution authority with jurisdiction over the administrator for the Relevant IBOR or a court or an entity with similar insolvency or resolution authority over the administrator for the Relevant IBOR, which states that the administrator of the Relevant IBOR has ceased or will cease to provide the Relevant IBOR permanently or indefinitely, provided that, at the time of the statement or publication, there is no successor administrator that will continue to provide the Relevant IBOR; or
(c) If the Relevant IBOR is sterling LIBOR, Swiss franc LIBOR, U.S. dollar LIBOR, euro LIBOR, Japanese yen LIBOR, the Singapore dollar swap offer rate or the Thai baht interest rate fixing, a public statement or publication of information by the regulatory supervisor for the administrator of such Relevant IBOR (or, if the Relevant IBOR is the Singapore dollar swap offer rate or the Thai baht interest rate fixing, by the regulatory supervisor for the administrator of U.S. dollar LIBOR) announcing that (i) the regulatory supervisor has determined that such Relevant IBOR is no longer, or as of a specified future date will no longer be, representative of the underlying market and economic reality that such Relevant IBOR is intended to measure and that representativeness will not be restored and (ii) it is being made in the awareness that the statement or publication will engage certain contractual triggers for fallbacks activated by pre-cessation announcements by such supervisor (howsoever described) in contracts, provided that, if either the Singapore dollar swap offer rate or the Thai baht interest rate fixing is the Relevant IBOR, references to the “Relevant IBOR” in subparagraphs (a), (b) and (c)(i) above of this definition of “Index Cessation Event” will be deemed to be references to U.S. dollar LIBOR.
An Index Cessation Event may also occur in accordance with paragraph 6(d), subparagraph 6(e)(ii) or subparagraph 6(e)(iii) above.
“
JPY Recommended Rate
” means the rate (inclusive of any spreads or adjustments) recommended as the replacement for TONA by a committee officially endorsed or convened by the Bank of Japan for the purpose of recommending a replacement for TONA (which rate may be produced by the Bank of Japan or another administrator) and as provided by the administrator of that rate or, if that rate is not provided by the administrator thereof (or a successor administrator), published by an authorized distributor.
“
MAS Recommended Rate
” means the rate (inclusive of any spreads or adjustments) recommended as the replacement for Fallback Rate (SOR) by the Monetary Authority of Singapore or by a committee officially endorsed or convened by the Monetary Authority of Singapore (which rate may be produced by the Monetary Authority of Singapore or another administrator) and as provided by the administrator of that rate in respect of the day for which that rate is required (which under the 2006 ISDA Definitions would be the “Reset Date”) or, if that rate is not provided by the administrator of that rate (or a successor administrator), published by an authorized distributor.
“
Modified EDFR
” means a rate equal to the Eurosystem Deposit Facility Rate plus the EDFR Spread.
“Modified SNB Policy Rate” means a rate equal to the SNB Policy Rate plus the SNB Spread.
“
Non-Representative
” means, in respect of a Relevant LIBOR (or, if the Relevant IBOR is the Singapore dollar swap offer rate or the Thai baht interest rate fixing, in respect of U.S. dollar LIBOR), the regulatory supervisor for the administrator of the Relevant LIBOR (or, if the Relevant IBOR is the Singapore dollar swap offer rate or the Thai baht interest rate fixing, U.S. dollar LIBOR):
(a) Has determined and announced that the Relevant LIBOR (or, if the Relevant IBOR is the Singapore dollar swap offer rate or the Thai baht interest rate fixing, U.S. dollar LIBOR) is no longer representative of the underlying market and economic reality it is intended to measure and representativeness will not be restored; and
(b) Is aware that certain contractual triggers for fallbacks activated by pre-cessation announcements by such supervisor (howsoever described) in contracts have been or are engaged, provided that such Relevant LIBOR (or, if the Relevant IBOR is the Singapore dollar swap offer rate or the Thai baht interest rate fixing, U.S. dollar LIBOR) will be `Non-Representative' by reference to the date indicated in the most recent statement or publication contemplated in subparagraph (c) of the definition of “Index Cessation Event” above.
“
NWG Recommended Rate
” means the rate (inclusive of any spreads or adjustments) recommended as the replacement for SARON by any working group or committee in Switzerland organized in the same or a similar manner as the National Working Group on Swiss Franc Reference Rates that was founded in 2013 for purposes of, among other things, considering proposals to reform reference interest rates in Switzerland, and as provided by the administrator of that rate or, if that rate is not provided by the administrator thereof (or a successor administrator), published by an authorized distributor.
“
OBFR
” means the Overnight Bank Funding Rate, as provided by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (or a successor administrator) on the New York Fed's website (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions) or, if that rate is not provided by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (or a successor administrator), published by an authorized distributor.
“
RBA Recommended Rate
” means the rate (inclusive of any spreads or adjustments) recommended as the replacement for AONIA by the Reserve Bank of Australia (which rate may be produced by the Reserve Bank of Australia or another administrator) and as provided by the administrator of that rate
or, if that rate is not provided by the administrator thereof (or a successor administrator), published by an authorized distributor.
“
Relevant LIBOR
” means sterling LIBOR, Swiss franc LIBOR, U.S. dollar LIBOR, euro LIBOR and Japanese yen LIBOR.
“
Relevant Original Fixing Date
” means, in respect of a Relevant IBOR and unless otherwise agreed, the day on which that Relevant IBOR would have been observed (which under the 2006 ISDA Definitions would be the “Reset Date” or, if the Relevant IBOR is Swiss franc LIBOR, U.S. dollar LIBOR, euro LIBOR, the euro interbank offered rate, Japanese yen LIBOR, the Japanese yen Tokyo interbank offered rate, the euroyen Tokyo interbank offered rate, the Singapore dollar swap offer rate or the Thai baht interest rate fixing, the day that is two Applicable Banking Days preceding a relevant “Reset Date”, as applicable).
“
SNB Policy Rate
” means the policy rate of the Swiss National Bank.
“
SNB Spread
” means the historical median between SARON and the SNB Policy Rate over an observation period of two years starting two years prior to the day on which the Fallback Index Cessation Event with respect to Fallback Rate (SARON) occurs (or, if later, two years prior to the day on which the first Fallback Index Cessation Event with respect to SARON occurs) and ending on the Zurich Banking Day (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions) immediately preceding the day on which the Fallback Index Cessation Event with respect to Fallback Rate (SARON) occurs (or, if later, the Zurich Banking Day immediately preceding the day on which the first Fallback Index Cessation Event with respect to SARON occurs), as determined by the Calculation Agent.
“
SORA
” means the Singapore Overnight Rate Average as provided by the Monetary Authority of Singapore (or a successor administrator) on the Monetary Authority of Singapore's website (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions) (or as published by its authorized distributors).
“
THOR
” means the Thai Overnight Repurchase Rate as provided by the Bank of Thailand as administrator of the benchmark (or a successor administrator) on the Bank of Thailand's website (as defined in the 2006 ISDA Definitions) (or as published by its authorized distributors).
“
UK Bank Rate
” means the official bank rate as determined by the Monetary Policy Committee of the Bank of England and published by the Bank of England from time to time.
“
Underlying Rate
” means, if the Applicable Fallback Rate is: (a) Fallback Rate (SONIA), SONIA; (b) Fallback Rate (SARON), SARON; (c) Fallback Rate (SOFR), SOFR; (d) Fallback Rate (EuroSTR), EuroSTR; (e) Fallback Rate (TONA), TONA; (f) Fallback Rate (AONIA), AONIA; (g) Fallback Rate (CORRA), CORRA; and (h) Fallback Rate (HONIA), HONIA.

# 7. Negative Interest Protocol
The parties agree that the amendments made by this Protocol do not constitute a “Spread Provision” (as defined in the ISDA 2014 Collateral Agreement Negative Interest Protocol published on May 12, 2014 by ISDA).
Published by permission of the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (“ISDA”) ISDA® reserves all rights in the Protocol.
Source: ISDA 2020 IBOR Fallbacks Protocol, published on October 23, 2020, by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc.,
https://assets.isda.org/media/3062e7b4/08268161-pdf/.
Pt. 261

# PART 261—RULES REGARDING AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
261.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
261.2
Definitions.
261.3
Custodian of records; certification; service; alternative authority.
261.4
Prohibition against disclosure.

# Subpart B—Published Information and Records Available to Public; Procedures for Requests
261.10
Published information.
261.11
Records available to the public upon request.
261.12
Processing requests.
261.13
Responses to requests.
261.14
Appeals.
261.15
Exemptions from disclosure.
261.16
Fee schedules; waiver of fees.
261.17
Request for confidential treatment.
261.18
Process for addressing a submitter's request for confidential treatment.

# Subpart C—Nonpublic Information Made Available to Supervised Financial Institutions, Governmental Agencies, and Others in Certain Circumstances
261.20
General.
261.21
Confidential supervisory information made available to supervised financial institutions.
261.22
Nonpublic information made available by the Board to governmental agencies and entities exercising governmental authority.
261.23
Other disclosure of confidential supervisory information.
261.24
Subpoenas, orders compelling production, and other process.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552; 12 U.S.C. 248(i) and (k), 321
et seq.,
611
et seq.,
1442, 1467a, 1817(a)(2)(A), 1817(a)(8), 1818(u) and (v), 1821(o), 1821(t), 1830, 1844, 1951
et seq.,
2601, 2801
et seq.,
2901
et seq.,
3101
et seq.,
3401
et seq.;
15 U.S.C. 77uuu(b), 78q(c)(3); 29 U.S.C. 1204; 31 U.S.C. 5301
et seq.;
42 U.S.C. 3601; 44 U.S.C. 3510.

# Source:
85 FR 57627, Sept. 15, 2020, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 261.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority and purpose.
This part establishes mechanisms for carrying out the Board's statutory responsibilities relating to the disclosure, production, or withholding of information to facilitate the Board's interaction with financial institutions and the public. In this regard, the Board has determined that the Board or its delegees may disclose nonpublic information of the Board, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this part, whenever it is necessary or appropriate to do so in the exercise of any of the Board's authorities, including but not limited to authority granted to the Board in the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, Federal Reserve Act, 12 U.S.C. 221
et seq.,
the Bank Holding Company Act, 12 U.S.C. 1841
et seq.,
the Home Owners' Loan Act, 12 U.S.C. 1461
et seq.,
and the International Banking Act, 12 U.S.C. 3101
et seq.
the Board has determined that all such disclosures made in accordance with the rules and procedures specified in this part are authorized by law, and are, as applicable, disclosures to proper persons pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 326. This part also sets forth the categories of information made available to the public, the procedures for obtaining information and records, the procedures for limited release of nonpublic information, and the procedures for protecting confidential business information.
(b)
Scope.
(1) This subpart A contains general provisions and definitions of terms used in this part.
(2) Subpart B implements the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) (5 U.S.C. 552).
(3) Subpart C sets forth:
(i) The kinds of nonpublic information made available to supervised financial institutions, governmental agencies, and others in certain circumstances;
(ii) The procedures for disclosure; and
(iii) The procedures with respect to subpoenas, orders compelling production, and other process.
§ 261.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a)
Affiliate
has the meaning given it in 12 CFR 225.2(a).
(b)(1)
Confidential supervisory information
means nonpublic information that is exempt from disclosure pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(8) and includes information that is or was created or obtained in furtherance of the Board's supervisory, investigatory, or enforcement activities, including activities conducted by a Federal Reserve Bank (Reserve Bank) under delegated authority, relating to any supervised financial institution, and any information derived from or related to such information. Examples of confidential supervisory information include, without limitation, reports of examination, inspection, and visitation; confidential operating and condition reports; supervisory assessments; investigative requests for documents or other information; and supervisory correspondence or other supervisory communications. Additionally, any portion of a document in the possession of any person, entity, agency or authority, including a supervised financial institution, that contains or would reveal confidential supervisory information is confidential supervisory information.
(2)
Confidential supervisory information
does not include:
(i) Documents prepared by or for a supervised financial institution for its own business purposes that are in its own possession and that do not include confidential supervisory information as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, even though copies of such documents in the Board's or Reserve Bank's possession constitute confidential supervisory information; or
(ii) Final orders, amendments, or modifications of final orders, or other actions or documents that are specifically required to be published or made available to the public pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1818(u), the Community Reinvestment Act, or other applicable law.
(c)
Nonpublic information
means information that has not been publicly disclosed by the Board and that is:
(1) Confidential supervisory information, or
(2) Exempt from disclosure under § 261.15(a).
(d)(1)
Records of the Board
or
Board records
means all recorded information, regardless of form or characteristics, that is created or obtained by the Board and is under the Board's control. A record is created or obtained by the Board if it is created or obtained by:
(i) Any Board member or any officer, employee, or contractor of the Board in the conduct of the Board's official duties, or
(ii) Any officer, director, employee, or contractor of any Reserve Bank and either constitutes confidential supervisory information as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section or is created or obtained in the performance of Board functions delegated to the Reserve Bank pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 248(k).
(2)
Records of the Board
do not include:
(i) Personal files or notes of Board members, employees, or contractors; extra copies of documents and library and museum materials kept solely for reference or exhibition purposes; or unaltered publications otherwise available to the public in Board publications, libraries, or established distribution systems;
(ii) Records located at Reserve Banks other than those records identified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section; or
(iii) Records that belong to or are otherwise under the control of another entity or agency despite the Board's possession.
(e)(1)
Search
means a reasonable search of such records of the Board as seem likely in the particular circumstances to contain information of the kind requested.
(2) As part of the Board's search for responsive records, the Board is not obligated to conduct any research, create any document, or modify an electronic program or automated information system.
(f)
Supervised financial institution
includes any institution that is supervised by the Board, including a bank; a bank holding company, intermediate holding company, or savings and loan holding company (including their non-depository subsidiaries); an Edge Act or agreement corporation; a U.S. branch or agency of a foreign bank; any company designated for Board supervision by the Financial Stability Oversight Council; or any other entity or service subject to examination by the Board.
(g)
Working day
means any day except Saturday, Sunday, or a legal Federal holiday.
§ 261.3
Custodian of records; certification; service; alternative authority.
(a)
Custodian of records.
The Secretary of the Board (Secretary) is the official custodian of all records of the Board.
(b)
Certification of record.
The Secretary may certify the authenticity of any Board record, or any copy of such record, for any purpose, and for or before any duly constituted Federal or State court, tribunal, or agency.
(c)
Service of subpoenas or other process.
Subpoenas or other judicial or administrative process demanding access to any Board records or making any claim against the Board or against Board members or staff in their official capacity shall be addressed to and served upon the Secretary of the Board at the Board's office at 20th Street and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20551. The Board does not accept service of process on behalf of any employee in respect of purely private legal disputes.
(d)
Alternative authority.
Any action or determination required or permitted by this part to be done by the Board, the Secretary, the General Counsel, the Director of any Division, or any Reserve Bank, may be done by any employee who has been duly authorized or designated for this purpose by the Board, the Secretary, the General Counsel, the appropriate Director, or the appropriate Reserve Bank, respectively.
§ 261.4
Prohibition against disclosure.
Except as provided in this part or as otherwise authorized, no officer, employee, or agent of the Board or any Reserve Bank shall disclose or permit
the disclosure of any nonpublic information of the Board to any person other than Board or Reserve Bank officers, employees, or agents properly entitled to such information for the performance of official duties.

# Subpart B—Published Information and Records Available to Public; Procedures for Requests
§ 261.10
Published information.
(a)
Federal Register.
The Board publishes in the
Federal Register
for the guidance of the public:
(1) Descriptions of the Board's central and field organization;
(2) Statements of the general course and method by which the Board's functions are channeled and determined, including the nature and requirements of procedures;
(3) Rules of procedure, descriptions of forms available and the place where they may be obtained, and instructions on the scope and contents of all papers, reports, and examinations;
(4) Substantive rules, interpretations of general applicability, and statements of general policy;
(5) Every amendment, revision, or repeal of the foregoing in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section; and
(6) Other notices as required by law.
(b)
Publications.
The Board maintains a list of publications on its website (at
www.federalreserve.gov/publications
). Most publications issued by the Board, including available back issues, may be downloaded from the website; some may be obtained through an order form located on the website (at
www.federalreserve.gov/files/orderform.pdf
) or by contacting Board Printing
Fulfillment, Federal Reserve Board, Washington, DC 20551. Subscription or other charges may apply for some publications.
(c)
Publicly available information
—(1)
Electronic reading room.
The Board makes the following records available in its electronic reading room,
http://www.federalreserve.gov/foia/readingrooms.htm#rr1.
(i) Final opinions, including concurring and dissenting opinions, as well as final orders and written agreements, made in the adjudication of cases;
(ii) Statements of policy and interpretations adopted by the Board that are not published in the
Federal Register
;
(iii) Administrative staff manuals and instructions to staff that affect the public;
(iv) Copies of all records, regardless of form or format—
(A) That have been released to any person under § 261.11; and
(B)(
1
) That because of the nature of their subject matter, the Board has determined have become or are likely to become the subject of subsequent requests for substantially the same records; or
(
2
) That have been requested three or more times;
(v) A general index of the records referred to in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section; and
(vi) The public section of Community Reinvestment Act examination reports.
(2)
Inspection in electronic format at Reserve Banks.
The Board may determine that certain classes of publicly available filings shall be made available for inspection in electronic format only at the Reserve Bank where those records are filed.
(3)
Privacy protection.
The Board may delete identifying details from any public record to prevent a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.
§ 261.11
Records available to the public upon request.
(a)
Procedures for requesting records.
(1) Requesters are encouraged to submit requests electronically by filling out the required information at
https://www.federalreserve.gov/secure/forms/efoiaform.aspx.
Alternatively, requests may be submitted in writing to the Office of the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Attn: FOIA Requests, 20th Street and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20551; or sent by facsimile to the Office of the Secretary, (202) 872-7565. Clearly mark the request FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT REQUEST.
(2) A request may not be combined with any other request or with any matter presented to the Board such as a protest on a pending application or a comment on a public rulemaking. It
may, however, be combined with a request for records under the Privacy Act pursuant to 12 CFR 261a.5(a) or a request for discretionary release of confidential supervisory information pursuant to § 261.23.
(b)
Contents of request.
A request must include:
(1) The requester's name, address, daytime telephone number, and an email address if available.
(2) A description of the records that enables the Board's staff to identify and produce the records with reasonable effort and without unduly burdening or significantly interfering with any of the Board's operations. Whenever possible, the request should include specific information about each record sought, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, and subject matter of the record.
(3) A statement agreeing to pay the applicable fees. If the information requested is not intended for a commercial use (as defined in § 261.16(d)(1)) and the requester seeks a reduction or waiver of fees because he or she is either a representative of the news media, an educational institution, or a noncommercial scientific institution, the requester should include the information called for in § 261.16(g)(2).
(c)
Perfected and defective requests.
(1) The Board will consider the request to be perfected on the date the Office of the Secretary receives a request that contains all of the information required by paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.
(2) The Board need not accept or process a request that does not reasonably describe the records requested or that does not otherwise comply with the requirements of this section.
(3) The Board may return a defective request, specifying the deficiency. The requester may submit a corrected request, which will be treated as a new request.
§ 261.12
Processing requests.
(a)
Receipt of requests.
Upon receipt of any request that satisfies the requirements set forth in § 261.11, the Office of the Secretary shall assign the request to the appropriate processing schedule, pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section. The date of receipt for any request, including one that is addressed incorrectly or that is referred to the Board by another agency or by a Reserve Bank, is the date the Office of the Secretary actually receives the request.
(b)
Multitrack processing.
(1) The Board provides different levels of processing for categories of requests under this section.
(i) Requests for records that are readily identifiable by the Office of the Secretary and that have already been cleared for public release or can easily be cleared for public release may qualify for simple processing.
(ii) All other requests shall be handled under normal processing procedures, unless expedited processing has been granted pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) The Office of the Secretary will make the determination whether a request qualifies for simple processing. A requester may contact the Office of the Secretary to learn whether a particular request has been assigned to simple processing. If the request has not qualified for simple processing, the requester may limit the scope of the request in order to qualify for simple processing by contacting the Office of the Secretary in writing, by letter or email, or by telephone.
(c)
Expedited processing.
(1) A request for expedited processing may be made at any time. A request for expedited processing must be clearly labeled “Expedited Processing Requested.” The Board will process requests and appeals on an expedited basis whenever it is determined that they involve:
(i) Circumstances in which the lack of expedited processing could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual; or
(ii) An urgency to inform the public about an actual or alleged Federal Government activity, if made by a person who is primarily engaged in disseminating information.
(2) A requester who seeks expedited processing must submit a statement, certified to be true and correct, explaining in detail the basis for making the request for expedited processing. For example, under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, a requester who is not
a full-time member of the news media must establish that the requester is a person whose primary professional activity or occupation is information dissemination, though it need not be the requester's sole occupation. Such a requester also must establish a particular urgency to inform the public about the government activity involved in the request—one that extends beyond the public's right to know about Federal Government activity generally. The existence of numerous articles published on a given subject can be helpful in establishing the requirement that there be an “urgency to inform” the public on the topic. As a matter of administrative discretion, the Board may waive the formal certification requirement.
(3) Within 10 calendar days of receipt of a request for expedited processing, the Board will notify the requester of its decision on the request. A denial of expedited processing may be appealed to the Board in accordance with § 261.14. The Board will respond to the appeal within 10 working days of receipt of the appeal.
(d)
Priority of responses.
The Office of the Secretary will normally process requests in the order they are received in the separate processing tracks, except when expedited processing is granted in which case the request will be processed as soon as practicable.
(e)
Time limits.
The time for response to requests shall be 20 working days from when a request is perfected. Exceptions to the 20-day time limit are only as follows:
(1) In the case of expedited treatment under paragraph (c) of this section, the Board shall give the expedited request priority over non-expedited requests and shall process the expedited request as soon as practicable.
(2) Where the running of such time is suspended for a requester to address fee requirements pursuant to § 261.16(c)(1) or (2).
(3) In unusual circumstances, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B), the Board may—
(i) Extend the 20-day time limit for a period of time not to exceed 10 working days, where the Board has provided written notice to the requester setting forth the reasons for the extension and the date on which a determination is expected to be dispatched; and
(ii) Extend the 20-day time limit for a period of more than 10 working days where the Board has provided the requester with an opportunity to modify the scope of the FOIA request so that it can be processed within that time frame or with an opportunity to arrange an alternative time frame for processing the original request or a modified request, and has notified the requester that the Board's FOIA Public Liaison is available to assist the requester for this purpose and in the resolution of any disputes between the requester and the Board and of the requester's right to seek dispute resolution services from the Office of Government Information Services.
§ 261.13
Responses to requests.
(a) When the Board receives a perfected request, it will conduct a reasonable search of Board records in its possession on the date the Board's search begins and will review any responsive information it locates.
(b) If a request covers documents that were created by, obtained from, or classified by another agency, the Board may refer the request for such documents to that agency for a response and inform the requester promptly of the referral.
(c) In responding to a request, the Board will withhold information under this section only if—
(1) The Board reasonably foresees that disclosure would harm an interest protected by an exemption described in § 261.15(a); or
(2) Disclosure is prohibited by law.
(d) The Board will take reasonable steps necessary to segregate and release nonexempt information.
(e) The Board will notify the requester of:
(1) The Board's determination of the request;
(2) The reasons for the determination;
(3) An estimate of the amount of information withheld, if any. An estimate is not required if the amount of information is otherwise indicated by deletions marked on records that are
disclosed in part or if providing an estimate would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption;
(4) The right of the requester to seek assistance from the Board's FOIA Public Liaison; and
(5) When an adverse determination is made, the Board will advise the requester in writing of that determination and will further advise the requester of:
(i) The right of the requester to appeal any adverse determination within 90 calendar days after the date of the determination as specified in § 261.14;
(ii) The right of the requester to seek dispute resolution services from the Board's FOIA Public Liaison or the Office of Government Information Services; and
(iii) The name and title or position of the person responsible for the adverse determination.
(f) Adverse determinations, or denials of requests, include decisions that the requested record is exempt, in whole or in part; the request does not reasonably describe the records sought; the information requested is not a record subject to the FOIA; the requested record does not exist, cannot be located, or has been destroyed; or the requested record is not readily reproducible in the form or format sought by the requester. Adverse determinations also include denials involving fees or fee waiver matters or denials of requests for expedited treatment.
(g) The Board will normally send responsive, nonexempt documents to the requester by email but may use other means as arranged between the Board and the requester or as determined by the Board. The Board will attempt to provide records in the format requested by the requester.
§ 261.14
Appeals.
(a)
Appeal of adverse determination.
If the Board makes an adverse determination as defined in § 261.13(f), the requester may file a written appeal with the Board, as follows:
(1) The appeal should prominently display the phrase FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT APPEAL on the first page, and should be sent directly to
FOIA-Appeals@frb.gov
or, if sent by mail, addressed to the Office of the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Attn: FOIA Appeals, 20th Street
Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20551; or sent by facsimile to the Office of the Secretary, (202) 872-7565. If the requester is appealing the denial of expedited treatment, the appeal should clearly be labeled “Appeal for Expedited Processing.”
(2) A request for records under § 261.11 may not be combined in the same letter with an appeal.
(3) To be considered timely, an appeal must be postmarked, or in the case of electronic submissions, transmitted, within 90 calendar days after the date of the adverse determination.
(b) Except as provided in § 261.12(c)(3), the Board shall make a determination regarding any appeal within 20 working days of actual receipt of the appeal by the Office of the Secretary. If an adverse determination is upheld on appeal, in whole or in part, the determination letter shall notify the appealing party of the right to seek judicial review and of the availability of dispute resolution services from the Office of Government Information Services as a nonexclusive alternative to litigation.
(c) The Board may reconsider an adverse determination, including one on appeal, if intervening circumstances or additional facts not known at the time of the adverse determination come to the attention of the Board.
§ 261.15
Exemptions from disclosure.
(a)
Types of records exempt from disclosure.
Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(b), the following records of the Board are exempt from disclosure under this part:
(1) Any information that is specifically authorized under criteria established by an executive order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy and is in fact properly classified pursuant to the executive order.
(2) Any information related solely to the internal personnel rules and practices of the Board.
(3) Any information specifically exempted from disclosure by statute to the extent required by 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(3).
(4) Any matter that is a trade secret or that constitutes commercial or financial information obtained from a person and that is privileged or confidential.
(5) Inter- or intra-agency memorandums or letters that would not be available by law to a party other than an agency in litigation with the Board, provided that the deliberative process privilege shall not apply to records that were created 25 years or more before the date on which the records were requested.
(6) Any information contained in personnel and medical files and similar files the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.
(7) Any records or information compiled for law enforcement purposes, to the extent permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(7).
(8) Any matter that is contained in or related to examination, operating, or condition reports prepared by, on behalf of, or for the use of an agency responsible for the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including a State financial institution supervisory agency.
(b)
Release of nonpublic information.
(1) The Board may make any nonpublic information furnished in connection with an application for Board approval of a transaction available to the public in response to a request in accordance with § 261.11, and may, without prior notice and to the extent it deems necessary, comment on such information in any opinion or statement issued to the public in connection with a Board action to which such information pertains.
(2) The fact that the Board has determined to release particular nonpublic information does not waive the Board's ability to withhold similar nonpublic information in response to the same or a different request.
(3) Except where disclosure is expressly prohibited by statute, regulation, or order, the Board may release records that are exempt from mandatory disclosure whenever the Board or designated Board members, the Secretary, or the General Counsel determines that such disclosure would be in the public interest. The Board will provide predisclosure notice to submitters of confidential information in accordance with § 261.18(b)(1). Confidential supervisory information may only be released as set forth in subpart C.
(c)
Delayed release.
Except as required by law, publication in the
Federal Register
or availability to the public of certain information may be delayed if immediate disclosure would likely:
(1) Interfere with accomplishing the objectives of the Board in the discharge of its statutory functions;
(2) Interfere with the orderly conduct of the foreign affairs of the United States;
(3) Permit speculators or others to gain unfair profits or other unfair advantages by speculative trading in securities or otherwise;
(4) Result in unnecessary or unwarranted disturbances in the securities markets;
(5) Interfere with the orderly execution of the objectives or policies of other government agencies; or
(6) Impair the ability to negotiate any contract or otherwise harm the commercial or financial interest of the United States, the Board, any Reserve Bank, or any department or agency of the United States.
§ 261.16
Fee schedules; waiver of fees.
(a)
Fee schedules.
Consistent with the limitations set forth in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4)(A)(viii), the fees applicable to a request for records pursuant to § 261.11 are set forth in table 1 to this section. These fees cover only the full allowable direct costs of search, duplication, and review. No fees will be charged where the average cost of collecting the fee (calculated at $5.00) exceeds the amount of the fee.
(b)
For purposes of computing fees.
(1) Search time includes all time spent looking for material that is responsive to a request, including line-by-line identification of material within documents. Such activity is distinct from “review” of material to determine whether the material is exempt from disclosure.
(2) Direct costs mean those expenditures that the Board actually incurs in searching for, reviewing, and duplicating records in response to a request
made under § 261.11, as shown in table 1 to this section.
(3) Duplication refers to the process of making a copy, in any format, of a document.
(4) Review refers to the process of examining documents that have been located as being potentially responsive to a request for records to determine whether any portion of a document is exempt from disclosure. It includes doing all that is necessary to prepare the documents for release, including the redaction of exempt information. It does not include time spent resolving general legal or policy issues regarding the application of exemptions.
(c)
Payment procedures.
The Board may assume that a person requesting records pursuant to § 261.11 will pay the applicable fees, unless the request includes a limitation on fees to be paid or seeks a waiver or reduction of fees pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section.
(1)
Advance notification of fees.
If the estimated charges are likely to exceed the amount authorized by the requester, the Office of the Secretary shall notify the requester of the estimated amount. Upon receipt of such notice, the requester may confer with the Office of the Secretary to reformulate the request to lower the costs or may authorize a higher amount. The time period for responding to requests under § 261.12(e) and the processing of the request will be suspended until the requester agrees in writing to pay the applicable fees.
(2)
Advance payment.
The Board may require advance payment of any fee estimated to exceed $250. The Board may also require full payment in advance where a requester has previously failed to pay a fee in a timely fashion. The time period for responding to a request under § 261.12(e) and the processing of the request will be suspended until the Office of the Secretary receives the required payment.
(3)
Late charges.
The Board may assess interest charges when fee payment is not made within 30 days of the date on which the billing was sent. Interest is at the rate prescribed in 31 U.S.C. 3717 and accrues from the date of the billing.
(d)
Categories of uses.
The fees assessed depend upon the intended use for the records requested. In determining which category is appropriate, the Board will look to the intended use set forth in the request for records. Where a requester's description of the use is insufficient to make a determination, the Board may seek additional clarification before categorizing the request.
(1) A
commercial use requester
is one who requests records for a use or purpose that furthers the commercial, trade, or profit interests of the requester or the person on whose behalf the request is made, which can include furthering those interests through litigation.
(2)
Representative of the news media
is any person or entity that gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses its editorial skills to turn the raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience, including organizations that disseminate solely on the internet. The term “news” means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. A non-affiliated journalist who demonstrates a solid basis for expecting publication through a news media entity, such as a publishing contract or past publication record, will be considered as a representative of the news media.
(3)
Educational institution
is any school that operates a program of scholarly research. A requester in this fee category must show that the request is made in connection with his or her role at the educational institution. The Board may seek verification from the requester that the request is in furtherance of scholarly research.
(4)
Noncommercial scientific institution
is an institution that is not operated on a “commercial” basis, as defined in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, and that is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry. A requester in this category must show that the request is authorized by and is made under the auspices of a qualifying institution and that the records are sought to further scientific research and are not for a commercial use.
(5)
Fees table.
Please refer to table 1 to this section to determine what fees apply for different categories of users.
(e)
Nonproductive search.
Fees for search and review may be charged even if no responsive documents are located or if the request is denied.
(f)
Aggregated requests.
A requester may not file multiple requests at the same time, solely in order to avoid payment of fees. If the Board reasonably believes that a requester is separating a single request into a series of requests for the purpose of evading the assessment of fees, the Board may aggregate any such requests and charge accordingly. It is considered reasonable for the Board to presume that multiple requests of this type made within a 30-day period have been made to avoid fees.
(g)
Waiver or reduction of fees.
A request for a waiver or reduction of the fees, and the justification for the waiver, shall be included with the request for records to which it pertains. If a waiver is requested and the requester has not indicated in writing an agreement to pay the applicable fees if the waiver request is denied, the time for response to the request for documents, as set forth in § 261.12(e), shall not begin until either a waiver has been granted or, if the waiver is denied, until the requester has agreed to pay the applicable fees.
(1) The Board will grant a waiver or reduction of fees where it is determined both that disclosure of the information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government, and that the disclosure of information is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. In making this determination, the Board will consider the following factors:
(i) Whether the subject of the records would shed light on identifiable operations or activities of the government with a connection that is direct and clear, not remote or attenuated; and
(ii) Whether disclosure of the information is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of those operations or activities. This factor is satisfied when the following criteria are met:
(A) Disclosure of the requested records must be meaningfully informative about government operations or activities. The disclosure of information that already is in the public domain, in either the same or a substantially identical form, would not be meaningfully informative if nothing new would be added to the public's understanding.
(B) The disclosure must contribute to the understanding of a reasonably broad audience of persons interested in the subject, as opposed to the individual understanding of the requester. A requester's expertise in the subject area as well as the requester's ability and intention to effectively convey information to the public must be considered. The Board will presume that a representative of the news media will satisfy this consideration.
(iii) The disclosure must not be primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. A commercial interest includes any commercial, trade, profit, or litigation interest.
(2) A request for a waiver or reduction of fees must include:
(i) A clear statement of the requester's interest in the documents;
(ii) The use proposed for the documents and whether the requester will derive income or other benefit for such use;
(iii) A statement of how the public will benefit from such use and from the Board's release of the documents;
(iv) A description of the method by which the information will be disseminated to the public; and
(v) If specialized use of the information is contemplated, a statement of the requester's qualifications that are relevant to that use.
(3) The requester has the burden to present evidence or information in support of a request for a waiver or reduction of fees.
(4) The Board will notify the requester of its determination on the request for a waiver or reduction of fees. The requester may appeal a denial in accordance with § 261.14(a).
(5) Where only some of the records to be released satisfy the requirements for a waiver of fees, a waiver must be granted for those records.
(6) A request for a waiver or reduction of fees should be made when the request for records is first submitted to the Board and should address the criteria referenced above. A requester may submit a fee waiver request at a later time so long as the underlying record request is pending or on administrative appeal. When a requester who has committed to pay fees subsequently asks for a waiver of those fees and that waiver is denied, the requester must pay any costs incurred up to the date the fee waiver request was received.
(h)
Restrictions on charging fees.
(1) If the Board fails to comply with the FOIA's time limits in which to respond to a request, the Board may not charge search fees, or, in the instances of requests from requesters described in paragraphs (d)(2) through (4) of this section, may not charge duplication fees, except as permitted under paragraphs (h)(2) through (4) of this section.
(2) If the Board determines that unusual circumstances exist, as described in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B), and has provided timely written notice to the requester and subsequently responds within the additional 10 working days as provided in § 261.12(e)(3), the Board may charge search fees, or, in the case of requesters described in paragraphs (d)(2) through (4) of this section, may charge duplication fees.
(3) If the Board determines that unusual circumstances exist, as described in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B), and more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request, then the Board may charge search fees, or, in the case of requesters described in paragraphs (d)(2) through (4) of this section, may charge duplication fees, if the Board has:
(i) Provided timely written notice of unusual circumstances to the requester in accordance with the FOIA; and
(ii) Discussed with the requester via written mail, email, or telephone (or made not less than three good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B)(ii).
(4) If a court has determined that exceptional circumstances exist, as defined by the FOIA, a failure to comply with the time limits shall be excused for the length of time provided by the court order.
(i)
Employee requests.
In connection with any request by an employee, former employee, or applicant for employment, for records for use in prosecuting a grievance or complaint of discrimination against the Board, fees shall be waived where the total charges (including charges for information provided under the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a)) are $50 or less; but the Board may waive fees in excess of that amount.
(j)
Special services.
The Board may agree to provide, and set fees to recover the costs of, special services not covered by the FOIA, such as certifying records or information and sending records by special methods such as express mail or overnight delivery.
Table 1 to § 261.16—Fees
Type of requester
Search costs per hour
Review costs per hour
Duplication costs
Commercial
Clerical/Technical staff—$20
Clerical/Technical staff—$20
Photocopy per standard page—.10.
Professional/Supervisory staff—$40
Professional/Supervisory staff—$40
Other types of duplication—Direct Costs.
Manager/Senior professional staff—$65
Manager/Senior professional staff—$65
Computer search, including computer search time, output, operator's salary—Direct Costs
Educational; or Non-commercial scientific; or News media
Costs waived
Costs waived
First 100 pages
free,
then: Photocopy per standard page—.10.
Other types of duplication—Direct Costs.
All other requesters
First 2 hours
free,
then: Clerical/Technical staff—$20
Costs waived
First 100 pages
free,
then: Photocopy per standard page—.10.
Professional/Supervisory staff—$40
Other types of duplication—Direct Costs.
Manager/Senior professional staff—$65
Computer search, including computer search time, output, operator's salary—Direct Costs
§ 261.17
Request for confidential treatment.
(a)
Submission of request.
Any submitter of information to the Board who desires that such information be withheld pursuant to § 261.15(a)(4) or (6) shall file a request for confidential treatment with the Board (or in the case of documents filed with a Reserve Bank, with that Reserve Bank) at the time the information is submitted or within 10 working days thereafter.
(b)
Form of request.
Each request for confidential treatment shall state in reasonable detail the facts supporting the request, provide the legal justification, use good faith efforts to designate by appropriate markings any portion of the submission for which confidential treatment is requested, and include an affirmative statement that such information is not available publicly. A submitter's request for confidentiality in reliance upon § 261.15(a)(4) generally expires 10 years after the date of the submission unless the submitter requests and provides justification for a longer designation period.
(c)
Designation and separation of confidential material.
All information considered confidential by a submitter shall be clearly designated
CONFIDENTIAL
in the submission and separated from information for which confidential treatment is not requested. Failure to segregate confidential information from other material may result in release of the unsegregated material to the public without notice to the submitter.
(d)
Exceptions.
This section does not apply to:
(1) Data items collected on forms that are approved pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
) and deemed confidential by the Board. Any such data items deemed confidential by the Board shall so indicate on the face of the form or in its instructions. The data may, however, be disclosed in aggregate form in such a manner that individual company data is not disclosed or derivable.
(2) Any comments submitted by a member of the public on applications and regulatory proposals being considered by the Board, unless the Board determines that confidential treatment is warranted.
(3) A determination by the Board to comment upon information submitted to the Board in any opinion or statement issued to the public as described in § 261.15(b)(1).
(e)
Special procedures.
The Board may establish special procedures for particular documents, filings, or types of information by express provisions in this part or by instructions on particular forms that are approved by the Board. These special procedures shall take precedence over this section.
§ 261.18
Process for addressing a submitter's request for confidential treatment.
(a)
Resolving requests for confidential treatment.
In general, a request by a submitter for confidential treatment of any information shall be considered in connection with a request for access to that information. At its discretion, the Board may act on a request for confidentiality prior to any request for access to the documents.
(b)
Notice to the submitter.
(1) When the Board receives a FOIA request for information for which a submitter has requested confidential treatment, the Board shall promptly provide written notice of the request to the submitter if the Board determines that it may be required to disclose the records, provided:
(i) The requested information has been designated in good faith by the submitter as information considered protected from disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4) or (b)(6); and
(ii) The Board has reason to believe that the requested information may be protected from disclosure, but has not yet determined whether the information may be protected from disclosure.
(2) Where a submitter has not requested confidential treatment but the Board reasonably believes the requested information may be protected from disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4) or (b)(6), the Board may notify a submitter of the receipt of a request for access to that information and provide the submitter an opportunity to respond.
(3) The notice given to the submitter shall:
(i) Describe the information that has been requested or include a copy of the requested records or portions of records containing the information. In cases involving a voluminous number of submitters, the Board may post or publish a notice in a place or manner reasonably likely to inform the submitters of the proposed disclosure, instead of sending individual notifications; and
(ii) Give the submitter a reasonable opportunity, not to exceed 10 working days from the date of notice, to submit written objections to disclosure of the information.
(c)
Exceptions to notice to submitter.
Notice to the submitter need not be given if:
(1) The Board determines that the information is exempt under the FOIA and, therefore, will not be disclosed;
(2) The requested information has been lawfully published or has been officially made available to the public;
(3) Disclosure of the information is required by a statute (other than 5 U.S.C. 552) or by a regulation issued in accordance with the requirements of Executive Order 12600 of June 23, 1987; or
(4) The submitter's claim of confidentiality appears obviously frivolous or has already been denied by the Board. In such case, the Board shall give the submitter written notice of the determination to disclose the information at least five working days prior to disclosure.
(d)
Notice to requester.
The requester shall be notified whenever:
(1) The submitter is provided with notice and an opportunity to object to disclosure under paragraph (b) of this section;
(2) The submitter is notified of the Board's intention to disclose the requested information; or
(3) The submitter files a lawsuit to prevent the disclosure of information.
(e)
Written objections by submitter.
(1) Upon receipt of the notice referenced in paragraph (b) of this section, a submitter that has any objections to disclosure should provide a detailed written statement that specifies all grounds for withholding the particular information under any exemption identified in § 261.15(a). A submitter relying on § 261.15(a)(4) as the basis for nondisclosure must explain why the information constitutes a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is confidential and must explain the consequences of disclosure of the information.
(2) A submitter who fails to respond within the time period specified in the notice will be considered to have no objection to disclosure of the information. The Board is not required to consider any information received after the date of any disclosure decision. Any information provided by a submitter under this subpart, including a written request for confidential treatment, may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA.
(f)
Analysis of objections.
The Board's determination to disclose any information for which confidential treatment has been requested shall be communicated to the submitter immediately. If the Board determines to disclose the information and the submitter has objected to such disclosure pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, the Board shall provide the submitter with the reasons for disclosure and shall delay disclosure for 10 working days from the date of the determination.
(g)
Notice of lawsuit.
The Board shall promptly notify any submitter of information covered by this section of the filing of any legal action against the
Board to compel disclosure of such information.

# Subpart C—Nonpublic Information Made Available to Supervised Financial Institutions, Governmental Agencies, and Others in Certain Circumstances
§ 261.20
General.
(a) All confidential supervisory information and other nonpublic information, including but not limited to information made available under this subpart, remains the property of the Board, and except as otherwise provided in this regulation, no person, entity, agency, or authority to whom the information is made available or who otherwise possesses the information, including any officer, director, employee, or agent thereof, may use any such information for an unauthorized purpose or disclose any such information without the prior written permission of the General Counsel.
(b) The disclosure of confidential supervisory information or other nonpublic information in accordance with this subpart shall not constitute a waiver by the Board of any applicable privileges.
(c) Nothing in this subpart shall be construed to limit or restrict the authority of the Board to impose any additional conditions or limitations on the use and disclosure of confidential supervisory information or other nonpublic information. Further, nothing in this subpart shall be construed to limit or restrict the authority of the Board to make discretionary disclosures of confidential supervisory information or other nonpublic information in addition to the disclosures expressly provided for in this subpart.
§ 261.21
Confidential supervisory information made available to supervised financial institutions.
(a)
Disclosure of confidential supervisory information to supervised financial institutions.
The Board or the appropriate Reserve Bank may disclose confidential supervisory information concerning a supervised financial institution to that supervised financial institution.
(b)
Disclosure of confidential supervisory information by supervised financial institutions
—(1)
General.
Any supervised financial institution lawfully in possession of confidential supervisory information pursuant to this section may when necessary or appropriate for business purposes disclose such information to its directors, officers, or employees, and to the directors, officers, or employees of its affiliates.
(2)
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, and State financial supervisory agencies.
Any supervised financial institution may, with the concurrence of the institution's central point of contact at the Reserve Bank, equivalent supervisory team leader, or other designated Reserve Bank employee (hereinafter, “Reserve Bank Point of Contact” or “Reserve Bank POC”), disclose confidential supervisory information about the institution that is contained in documents prepared by or for the institution for its own business purposes to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, and the State financial supervisory agency that supervises that institution when the Reserve Bank POC determines that the receiving agency has a legitimate supervisory or regulatory interest in the information. A Reserve Bank POC's action under this paragraph may require concurrence of other Federal Reserve staff in accordance with internal supervisory procedures. Requests to disclose any other confidential supervisory information to these or other agencies should be directed to the General Counsel under § 261.22(c) or § 261.23(c).
(3)
Legal counsel and auditors.
When necessary or appropriate in connection with the provision of legal or auditing services to the supervised financial institution, the supervised financial institution may disclose confidential supervisory information to its legal counsel or auditors. The supervised financial institution may also disclose confidential supervisory information to service providers (such as consultants, contractors, contingent workers, and
technology providers) of its legal counsel or auditors if the service provider is under a written agreement with the legal counsel or auditor in which the service provider agrees that:
(i) It will treat the confidential supervisory information in accordance with § 261.20(a); and
(ii) It will not use the confidential supervisory information for any purpose other than as necessary to provide the services to the supervised financial institution.
(4)
Other service providers.
(i) A supervised financial institution may disclose confidential supervisory information to other service providers engaged by the supervised financial institution if the service provider is under a written contract to provide services to the institution, the disclosure of the confidential supervisory information is deemed necessary to the service provider's provision of services, and the service provider has a written agreement with the institution in which the service provider has agreed that:
(A) It will treat the confidential supervisory information in accordance with § 261.20(a); and
(B) It will not use the confidential supervisory information for any purpose other than as provided under its contract to provide services to the supervised financial institution.
(ii) A supervised financial institution shall maintain a written account of the disclosures of confidential supervisory information that the supervised financial institution makes to service providers under this section and provide the Board or Reserve Bank with a copy of such written account upon the Board's or Reserve Bank's request.
§ 261.22
Nonpublic information made available by the Board to governmental agencies and entities exercising governmental authority.
(a)
Disclosure to Federal and State financial institution supervisory agencies.
The Director of the Division of Supervision and Regulation, the Director of the Division of Consumer and Community Affairs, the General Counsel, or the appropriate Reserve Bank may, for legitimate supervisory or regulatory purposes and with or without a request, disclose confidential supervisory information and other nonpublic information to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, and a State financial institution supervisory agency.
(b)
Disclosures pursuant to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act.
The Director of the Division of Supervision and Regulation, the Director of the Division of Consumer and Community Affairs, or the General Counsel may disclose confidential supervisory information and other nonpublic information concerning a supervised financial institution to:
(1) The Attorney General or to the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development related to the enforcement of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1691
et seq.
) or the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601
et seq.
); and
(2) The Secretary of the Department of Labor and the Secretary of the Department the Treasury in accordance with section 3004(b) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1204(b)).
(c)
Disclosure to other governmental agencies and entities exercising governmental authority.
Except as provided in paragraph (d) or (e) of this section, other Federal, State, and local agencies, including law enforcement agencies, and other entities exercising governmental authority, may file written requests with the Board for access to confidential supervisory information and other nonpublic information under this section, including information in the form of testimony and interviews from current or former Federal Reserve System staff. Properly accredited foreign law enforcement agencies and other foreign government agencies may also file written requests with the Board in accordance with this paragraph, except that provision of confidential supervisory information to foreign bank regulatory or supervisory authorities is governed by 12 CFR 211.27.
(1)
Contents of request.
To obtain access to confidential supervisory information or other nonpublic information
under this section, including information in the possession of a person other than the Board, the requester shall address a letter request to the Board's General Counsel, specifying:
(i) The particular information, kinds of information, and where possible, the particular documents to which access is sought;
(ii) The reasons why such information cannot be obtained from the supervised financial institution in question or another source rather than from the Board;
(iii) A statement of the law enforcement purpose or other statutory purpose for which the information shall be used;
(iv) A commitment that the information requested shall not be disclosed to any person outside the requesting agency or entity without the written permission of the General Counsel; and
(v) If the document or information requested includes customer account information subject to the Right to Financial Privacy Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 3401
et seq.
), any Federal agency request must include a statement that such customer account information need not be provided, or a statement as to why the Act does not apply to the request, or a certification that the requesting Federal agency has complied with the requirements of the Act.
(2)
Action on request.
The General Counsel may approve the request upon determining that:
(i) The request complies with this section;
(ii) The information is needed in connection with a formal investigation or other official duties of the requesting agency or entity;
(iii) Satisfactory assurances of confidentiality have been given; and
(iv) Disclosure is consistent with the supervisory and regulatory responsibilities and policies of the Board.
(d)
Federal and State grand jury, criminal trial, and government administrative subpoenas.
The General Counsel shall review and may approve the disclosure of nonpublic information pursuant to Federal and State grand jury, criminal trial, and government administrative subpoenas.
(e)
Conditions or limitations; written agreements.
The General Counsel may impose any conditions or limitations on disclosure that the General Counsel determines to be necessary to effect the purposes of this regulation, including the protection of the confidentiality of the Board's information, or to ensure compliance with applicable laws or regulations. In addition, Board or Reserve Bank staff may make disclosures pursuant to any written agreement entered into by the Board when authorized by the express terms of such agreement or by the General Counsel.
§ 261.23
Other disclosure of confidential supervisory information.
(a)
Board policy.
(1) It is the Board's policy regarding confidential supervisory information that such information is confidential and privileged. Accordingly, the Board does not normally disclose confidential supervisory information to the public or authorize third parties in possession of confidential supervisory information to further use or disclose the information. When considering a request to access, use, or to disclose confidential supervisory information under this section, the Board will not authorize access, use, or disclosure unless the requesting person is able to show a substantial need to access, use, or disclose such information that outweighs the need to maintain confidentiality.
(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, the Board will not authorize access to or disclosure of any suspicious activity report (SAR), or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this part, “official duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of nonpublic information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to this section.
(b)
Requests in connection with litigation.
Except as provided in §§ 261.21 and 261.22:
(1) In connection with any proposed use of confidential supervisory information in litigation before a court,
board, commission, agency, or arbitration, any person who—
(i) Seeks access to confidential supervisory information from the Board or a Reserve Bank (including the testimony of present or former Board or Reserve Bank employees on matters involving confidential supervisory information, whether by deposition or otherwise),
(ii) Seeks to use confidential supervisory information in its possession or to disclose such information to another party, or
(iii) Seeks to require a person to disclose confidential supervisory information to a party, shall file a written request with the General Counsel.
(2) The request shall include:
(i) The judicial or administrative action, including the case number and court or adjudicative body and a copy of the complaint or other pleading setting forth the assertions in the case;
(ii) A description of any prior judicial or other decisions or pending motions in the case that may bear on the asserted relevance of the requested information;
(iii) A narrow and specific description of the confidential supervisory information the requester seeks to access or to disclose for use in the litigation including, whenever possible, the specific documents the requester seeks to access or disclose;
(iv) The relevance of the confidential supervisory information to the issues or matters raised by the litigation;
(v) The reason why the information sought, or equivalent information adequate to the needs of the case, cannot be obtained from any other source; and
(vi) A commitment to obtain a protective order acceptable to the Board from the judicial or administrative tribunal hearing the action preserving the confidentiality of any information that is provided.
(3) In the case of requests covered by paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, the Board may require the party to whom disclosure would ultimately be made to substantiate its need for the information prior to acting on any request.
(c)
All other requests.
Any other person seeking to access, use, or disclose confidential supervisory information for any other purpose shall file a written request with the General Counsel. A request under this paragraph (c) shall describe the purpose for which access, use, or disclosure is sought and the requester shall provide other information as requested by the General Counsel.
(d)
Action on request
—(1)
Determination of approval.
The General Counsel may approve a request made under this section provided that he or she determines that:
(i) The person seeking access, or the person to whom access would be provided, has shown a substantial need to access confidential supervisory information that outweighs the need to maintain confidentiality; and
(ii) Approval is consistent with the supervisory and regulatory responsibilities and policies of the Board.
(2)
Conditions or limitations.
The General Counsel may, in approving a request, impose such conditions or limitations on use of any information disclosed as is deemed necessary to protect the confidentiality of the Board's information.
(e)
Exhaustion of administrative remedies for discovery purposes in civil, criminal, or administrative action.
Action on a request under this section by the General Counsel is necessary in order to exhaust administrative remedies for discovery purposes in any civil, criminal, or administrative proceeding. A request made pursuant to § 261.11 of this regulation does not exhaust administrative remedies for discovery purposes. Therefore, it is not necessary to file a request pursuant to § 261.11 to exhaust administrative remedies under this section.
§ 261.24
Subpoenas, orders compelling production, and other process.
(a)
Advice by person served.
Any person (including any officer, employee, or agent of the Board or any Reserve Bank) who is served with a subpoena, order, or other judicial or administrative process requiring the production of confidential supervisory information or other nonpublic information of the Board or requiring the person's testimony regarding such Board information in any proceeding, shall:
(1) Promptly inform the Board's General Counsel of the service and all relevant facts, including the documents,
information or testimony demanded, and any facts relevant to the Board in determining whether the material requested should be made available;
(2) Inform the entity issuing the process of the substance of these rules and, in particular, of the obligation to follow the request procedures in § 261.23(b); and
(3) At the appropriate time inform the court or tribunal that issued the process of the substance of these rules.
(b)
Appearance by person served.
Unless authorized by the Board or as ordered by a Federal court in a judicial proceeding in which the Board has had the opportunity to appear and oppose discovery, any person who is required to respond to a subpoena or other legal process concerning Board confidential supervisory information or other nonpublic Board information shall attend at the time and place required and respectfully decline to disclose or to give any testimony with respect to the information, basing such refusal upon the provisions of this regulation. If the court or other body orders the disclosure of the information or the giving of testimony, the person having the information shall continue to decline to disclose the information and shall promptly report the facts to the Board for such action as the Board may deem appropriate.
(c)
Civil requests for production.
A litigant or non-party who is served with a civil request for production of documents calling for production of confidential supervisory information should proceed under § 261.23 rather than this section.
Pt. 261a

# PART 261a—RULES REGARDING ACCESS TO PERSONAL INFORMATION UNDER THE PRIVACY ACT 1974

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
261a.1
Authority, purpose and scope.
261a.2
Definitions.
261a.3
Custodian of records; delegations of authority.
261a.4
Fees.

# Subpart B—Procedures for Requests by Individual to Whom Record Pertains
261a.5
Request for access to record.
261a.6
Board procedures for responding to request for access.
261a.7
Special procedures for medical records.
261a.8
Request for amendment of record.
261a.9
Board review of request for amendment of record.
261a.10
Appeal of adverse determination of request for access or amendment.

# Subpart C—Disclosure of Records
261a.11
Restrictions on disclosure.
261a.12
Exempt records.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552a.

# Source:
75 FR 63704, Oct. 18, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 261a.1
Authority, purpose and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the Board) pursuant to the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a).
(b)
Purpose and scope.
This part implements the provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974 with regard to the maintenance, protection, disclosure, and amendment of records contained within systems of records maintained by the Board. It sets forth the procedures for requests for access to, or amendment of, records concerning individuals that are contained in systems of records maintained by the Board.
§ 261a.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
(a)
Business day
means any day except Saturday, Sunday or a legal Federal holiday.
(b)
Guardian
means the parent of a minor, or the legal guardian of any individual who has been declared to be incompetent due to physical or mental incapacity or age by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(c)
Individual
means a natural person who is either a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
(d)
Maintain
includes maintain, collect, use, or disseminate.
(e)
Record
means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual maintained by the Board that contains the individual's name or the identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as a fingerprint, voice print, or photograph.
(f)
Routine use
means, with respect to disclosure of a record, the use of such record for a purpose that is compatible with the purpose for which it was collected or created.
(g)
System of records
means a group of any records under the control of the Board from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual.
(h)
You
means an individual making a request under the Privacy Act.
(i)
We
means the Board.
§ 261a.3
Custodian of records; delegations of authority.
(a)
Custodian of records.
The Secretary of the Board is the official custodian of all Board records.
(b)
Delegated authority of the Secretary.
The Secretary of the Board is authorized to—
(1) Respond to requests for access to, accounting of, or amendment of records contained in a system of records, except for requests regarding systems of records maintained by the Board's Office of Inspector General (OIG);
(2) Approve the publication of new systems of records and amend existing systems of records, except those systems of records exempted pursuant to § 261a.12(b), (c) and (d); and
(3) File any necessary reports related to the Privacy Act.
(c)
Delegated authority of designee.
Any action or determination required or permitted by this part to be done by the Secretary of the Board may be done by a Deputy or Associate Secretary or other responsible employee of the Board who has been duly designated for this purpose by the Secretary.
(d)
Delegated authority of Inspector General.
The Inspector General is authorized to respond to requests for access to, accounting of, or amendment of records contained in a system of records maintained by the OIG.
§ 261a.4
Fees.
(a)
Copies of records.
We will provide you with copies of the records you request under § 261a.5 of this part at the same cost we charge for duplication of records and/or production of computer output under the Board's Rules Regarding Availability of Information, 12 CFR Part 261.
(b)
No fee.
We will not charge you a fee if:
(1) Your total charges are less than $5, or
(2) You are a Board employee or former employee, or an applicant for employment with the Board, and you request records pertaining to you.

# Subpart B—Procedures for Requests by Individuals to Whom Record Pertains
§ 261a.5
Request for access to records.
(a)
Procedures for making request.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) or (f) of this section, if you (or your guardian) want to learn of the existence of, or to gain access to, your record in a system of records, you may submit a request in writing to the Secretary of the Board, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 20th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20551.
(2) If you request information contained in a system of records maintained by the Board's OIG, you may submit the request in writing to the Inspector General, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 20th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20551.
(b)
Contents of request.
Except for requests made under paragraph (f) of this section, your written request must include-
(1) A statement that the request is made pursuant to the Privacy Act of 1974;
(2) The name of the system of records you believe contains the record you request, or a concise description of that system of records;
(3) Information necessary to verify your identity pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section; and
(4) Any other information that might assist us in identifying the record you seek (
e.g.,
maiden name, dates of employment,
etc.
).
(c)
Verification of identity.
We will require proof of your identity, and we reserve the right to determine whether the proof you submit is adequate. In general, we will consider the following to be adequate proof of identity:
(1) If you are a current or former Board employee, your Board identification card; or
(2) If you are not a current or former Board employee, either
(i) Two forms of identification, including one photo identification, or
(ii) A notarized statement attesting to your identity.
(d)
Verification of identity not required.
We will not require verification of identity when the records you seek are available to any person under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552).
(e)
Request for accounting of previous disclosures.
You may request an accounting of previous disclosures of records pertaining to you in a system of records as provided in 5 U.S.C. 552a(c).
(f)
Requests Made by Board Employees.
Unless the Secretary provides and you are notified otherwise, if you are a current or former Board employee, you also may request access to your record in a system of records by appearing in person before or writing directly to the Board office that maintains the record.
§ 261a.6
Board procedures for responding to request for access.
(a)
Compliance with Freedom of Information Act.
We will handle every request made pursuant to § 261a.5 of this part (other than requests submitted under § 261a.5(f) that were granted) as a request for information pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act. The time limits set forth in paragraph (b) of this section and the fees specified in § 261a.4 of this part will apply to such requests.
(b)
Time for response.
We will acknowledge every request made pursuant to § 261a.5 of this part within 20 business days from receipt of the request and will, where practicable, respond to each request within that 20-day period. When a full response is not practicable within the 20-day period, we will respond as promptly as possible.
(c)
Disclosure.
(1) When we disclose information in response to your request, except for information maintained by the Board's OIG, we will make the information available for inspection and copying during regular business hours at the Board's Freedom of Information Office, or we will mail it to you on your request. For requests made under paragraph § 261a.5(f), you may request that the information be provided orally or in person.
(2) When the information to be disclosed is maintained by the Board's OIG, the OIG will make the information available for inspection and copying or will mail it to you on request.
(3) You may bring with you anyone you choose to see the requested material. All visitors to the Board's buildings must comply with the Board's security procedures.
(d)
Denial of request.
If we deny a request made pursuant to § 261a.5 of this part, we will tell you the reason(s) for denial and the procedures for appealing the denial. If a request made under paragraph § 261a.5(f) is denied, in whole or in part, the Board office that denied your request will simultaneously notify the Secretary of the Board of its action.
§ 261a.7
Special procedures for medical records.
If you request medical or psychological records pursuant to § 261a.5, we will disclose them directly to you unless the Chief Privacy Officer, in consultation with the Board's physician or Employee Assistance Program counselor, determines that such disclosure could have an adverse effect on you. If the Chief Privacy Officer makes that determination, we will provide the information to a licensed physician or other appropriate representative that you designate, who may disclose those records to you in a manner he or she deems appropriate.
§ 261a.8
Request for amendment of record.
(a)
Procedures for making request.
(1) If you wish to amend a record that pertains to you in a system of records, you
may submit the request in writing to the Secretary of the Board (or to the Inspector General for records in a system of records maintained by the OIG) in an envelope clearly marked “Privacy Act Amendment Request.”
(2) Your request for amendment of a record must—
(i) Identify the system of records containing the record for which amendment is requested;
(ii) Specify the portion of that record requested to be amended; and
(iii) Describe the nature of and reasons for each requested amendment.
(3) We will require you to verify your identity under the procedures set forth in § 261a.5(c) of this part, unless you have already done so in a related request for access or amendment.
(b)
Burden of proof.
Your request for amendment of a record must tell us why you believe the record is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete. You have the burden of proof for demonstrating the appropriateness of the requested amendment, and you must provide relevant and convincing evidence in support of your request.
§ 261a.9
Board review of request for amendment of record.
(a)
Time limits.
We will acknowledge your request for amendment of your record within 10 business days after we receive your request. In the acknowledgment, we may request additional information necessary for a determination on the request for amendment. We will make a determination on a request to amend a record promptly.
(b)
Contents of response to request for amendment.
When we respond to a request for amendment, we will tell you whether your request is granted or denied. If we grant your request, we will take the necessary steps to amend your record and, when appropriate and possible, notify prior recipients of the record of our action. If we deny the request, in whole or in part, we will tell you—
(1) Why we denied the request (or portion of the request);
(2) That you have a right to appeal; and
(3) How to file an appeal.
§ 261a.10
Appeal of adverse determination of request for access or amendment.
(a)
Appeal.
You may appeal a denial of a request made pursuant to § 261a.5 or § 261a.8 of this part within 10 business days after we notify you that we denied your request. Your appeal must—
(1) Be made in writing with the words “PRIVACY ACT APPEAL” written prominently on the first page and addressed to the Secretary of the Board, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 20th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20551;
(2) Specify the background of the request; and
(3) Provide reasons why you believe the initial denial is in error.
(b)
Determination.
We will make a determination on your appeal within 30 business days from the date we receive it, unless we extend the time for good cause.
(1) If we grant your appeal regarding a request for amendment, we will take the necessary steps to amend your record and, when appropriate and possible, notify prior recipients of the record of our action.
(2) If we deny your appeal, we will inform you of such determination, tell you our reasons for the denial, and tell you about your rights to file a statement of disagreement and to have a court review our decision.
(c)
Statement of disagreement.
(1) If we deny your appeal regarding a request for amendment, you may file a concise statement of disagreement with the denial. We will maintain your statement with the record you sought to amend and any disclosure of the record will include a copy of your statement of disagreement.
(2) When practicable and appropriate, we will provide a copy of the statement of disagreement to any prior recipients of the record.

# Subpart C—Disclosure of Records
§ 261a.11
Restrictions on disclosure.
We will not disclose any record about you contained in a system of records to any person or agency without your
prior written consent unless the disclosure is authorized by 5 U.S.C. 552a(b).
§ 261a.12
Exempt records.
(a)
Information compiled for civil action.
This regulation does not permit you to have access to any information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding.
(b)
Law enforcement information.
Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), we have determined that it is necessary to exempt the systems of records listed below from the requirements of the Privacy Act concerning access to records, accounting of disclosures of records, maintenance of only relevant and necessary information in files, and certain publication provisions, respectively, 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H) and (I), and (f), and §§ 261a.5, 261a.7, and 261a.8 of this part. The exemption applies only to the extent that a system of records contains investigatory materials compiled for law enforcement purposes.
(1) BGFRS-1 Recruiting and Placement Records
(2) BGFRS-2 Personnel Security Systems
(3) BGFRS-4 General Personnel Records
(4) BGFRS-5 EEO Discrimination Complaint File
(5) BGFRS-18 Consumer Complaint Information
(6) BGFRS-21 Supervisory Enforcement Actions and Special Examinations Tracking System
(7) BGFRS-31 Protective Information System
(8) BGFRS-32 Visitor Registration System
(9) BGFRS-36 Federal Reserve Application Name Check System
(10) BGFRS-37 Electronic Applications
(11) BGFRS-43 Security Sharing Platform
(12) BGFRS/OIG-1 OIG Investigative Records
(c)
Confidential references.
Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), we have determined that it is necessary to exempt the systems of records listed below from the requirements of the Privacy Act concerning access to records, accounting of disclosures of records, maintenance of only relevant and necessary information in files, and certain publication provisions, respectively, 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H) and (I), and (f), and §§ 261a.5, 261a.7, and 261a.8 of this part. The exemption applies only to the extent that a system of records contains investigatory material compiled to determine an individual's suitability, eligibility, and qualifications for Board employment or access to classified information, and the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Board under a promise of confidentiality.
(1) BGFRS-1 Recruiting and Placement Records
(2) BGFRS-2 Personnel Security Systems
(3) BGFRS-4 General Personnel Records
(4) BGFRS-10 General Files on Board Members
(5) BGFRS-11 Official General Files
(6) BGFRS-13 Federal Reserve System Bank Supervision Staff Qualifications
(7) BGFRS-14 General File on Federal Reserve Bank and Branch Directors
(8) BGFRS-25 Multi-Rater Feedback Records
(9) BGFRS/OIG-1 OIG Investigative Records
(10) BGFRS/OIG-2 OIG Personnel Records
(d)
Criminal law enforcement information.
Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), we have determined that the OIG Investigative Records (BGFRS/OIG-1) are exempt from the Privacy Act, except the provisions regarding disclosure, the requirement to keep an accounting, certain publication requirements, certain requirements regarding the proper maintenance of systems of records, and the criminal penalties for violation of the Privacy Act, respectively, 5 U.S.C. 552a(b), (c)(1), and (2), (e)(4)(A) through (F), (e)(6), (e)(7), (e)(9), (e)(10), (e)(11) and (i).
[75 FR 63704, Oct. 18, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 73604, Nov. 19, 2020]
Pt. 261b

# PART 261b—RULES REGARDING PUBLIC OBSERVATION OF MEETINGS
Sec.
261b.1
Basis and scope.
261b.2
Definitions.
261b.3
Conduct of agency business.
261b.4
Meetings open to public observation.
261b.5
Exemptions.
261b.6
Public announcement of meetings.
261b.7
Meetings closed to public observation under expedited procedures.
261b.8
Meetings closed to public observation under regular procedures.
261b.9
Changes with respect to publicly announced meeting.
261b.10
Certification of General Counsel.
261b.11
Transcripts, recordings, and minutes.
261b.12
Procedures for inspection and obtaining copies of transcriptions and minutes.
261b.13
Fees.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552b.

# Source:
42 FR 13297, Mar. 10, 1977, unless otherwise noted.
§ 261b.1
Basis and scope.
This part is issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“the Board”) under section 552b of title 5 of the United States Code, the Government in the Sunshine Act (“the Act”), to carry out the policy of the Act that the public is entitled to the fullest practicable information regarding the decision making processes of the Board while at the same time preserving the rights of individuals and the ability of the Board to carry out its responsibilities. These regulations fulfill the requirement of subsection (g) of the Act that each agency subject to the provisions of the Act shall promulgate regulations to implement the open meeting requirements of subsections (b) through (f) of the Act.
§ 261b.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions shall apply:
(a) The term
agency
means the Board and subdivisions thereof.
(b) The term
subdivision
means any group composed of two or more Board members that is authorized to act on behalf of the Board.
(c) The term
meeting
means the deliberations of at least the number of individual agency members required to take action on behalf of the agency where such deliberations determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of official Board business, but does not include (1) deliberations required or permitted by subsections (d) or (e) of the Act, or (2) the conduct or disposition of official agency business by circulating written material to individual members.
(d) The term
number of individual agency members required to take action on behalf of the agency
means in the case of the Board, a majority of its members except that (1) Board determination of the ratio of reserves against deposits under section 19(b) of the Federal Reserve Act requires the vote of four members, (2) Board action with respect to advances, discounts and rediscounts under sections 10(a), 11(b), and 13(3) of the Federal Reserve Act requires the vote of five members and (3) Board action with respect to the percentage of individual member bank capital and surplus which may be represented by loans secured by stock and bond collateral under section 11(m) of the Federal Reserve Act requires the vote of six members. In the case of subdivisions of the Board, the term means the number of members constituting a quorum of the designated subdivision.
(e) The term
member
means a member of the Board appointed under section 10 of the Federal Reserve Act. In the case of certain Board proceedings pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1818(e), the Comptroller of the Currency is entitled to sit as a member of the Board and for these proceedings he shall be deemed a
member
for the purposes of this part. In the case of any subdivision of the Board, the term
member
means a member of the Board designated to serve on that subdivision.
(f) The term
public observation
means that the public shall have the right to listen and observe but not to record any of the meetings by means of cameras or electronic or other recording devices unless approval in advance is obtained from the Public Affairs Office of the Board and shall not have the right to participate in the meeting, unless participation is provided for in the Board's Rules of Procedure.
(g) The term
Federal agency
means an
agency
as defined in 5 U.S.C. 551(1).
(h)
Committee
means the Action Committee established pursuant to 12 CFR 265.1a(c).
[42 FR 13297, Mar. 10, 1977, as amended at 43 FR 34481, Aug. 4, 1978]
§ 261b.3
Conduct of agency business.
Members shall not jointly conduct or dispose of official agency business other than in accordance with this part.
§ 261b.4
Meetings open to public observation.
(a) Except as provided in § 261b.5, every portion of every meeting of the agency shall be open to public observation.
(b) Copies of staff documents considered in connection with agency discussion of agenda items for a meeting that is open to public observation shall be made available for distribution to members of the public attending the meeting, in accordance with the provisions of 12 CFR part 261.
(c) The agency will maintain a complete electronic recording adequate to record fully the proceedings of each meeting or portion of a meeting open to public observation. Cassettes will be available for listening in the Freedom of Information Office, and copies may be ordered for $5 per cassette by telephoning or by writing Freedom of Information Office, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, DC 20551.
(d) The agency will maintain mailing lists of names and addresses of all persons who wish to receive copies of agency announcements of meetings open to public observation. Requests for announcements may be made by telephoning or by writing Freedom of Information Office, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, DC 20551.
[44 FR 11750, Mar. 2, 1979]
§ 261b.5
Exemptions.
(a) Except in a case where the agency finds that the public interest requires otherwise, the agency may close a meeting or a portion or portions of a meeting under the procedures specified in § 261b.7 or § 261b.8 of this part, and withhold information under the provisions of §§ 261b.6, 261b.7, 261b.8, or 261b.11 of this part, where the agency properly determines that such meeting or portion or portions of its meeting or the disclosure of such information is likely to:
(1) Disclose matters that are (i) specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive order to be kept secret in the interests of national defense or foreign policy, and (ii) in fact properly classified pursuant to such Executive order;
(2) Relate solely to internal personnel rules and practices;
(3) Disclose matters specifically exempted from disclosure by statute (other than section 552 of title 5 of the United States Code), provided that such statute (i) requires that the matters be withheld from the public in such a manner as to leave no discretion on the issue, or (ii) establishes particular criteria for withholding or refers to particular types of matters to be withheld;
(4) Disclose trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a person and privileged or confidential;
(5) Involve accusing any person of a crime, or formally censuring any person;
(6) Disclose information of a personal nature where disclosure would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(7) Disclose investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes, or information which if written would be contained in such records, but only to the extent that the production of such records or information would—
(i) Interfere with enforcement proceedings,
(ii) Deprive a person of a right to a fair trial or an impartial adjudication,
(iii) Constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy,
(iv) Disclose the identity of a confidential source and, in the case of a record compiled by a criminal law enforcement authority in the course of a criminal investigation, or by a Federal agency conducting a lawful national security intelligence investigation,
confidential information furnished only by the confidential source,
(v) Disclose investigative techniques and procedures, or
(vi) Endanger the life or physical safety of law enforcement personnel;
(8) Disclose information contained in or related to examination, operating, or condition reports prepared by, on behalf of, or for the use of the Board or other Federal agency responsible for the regulation or supervision of financial institutions;
(9) Disclose information the premature disclosure of which would—
(i) Be likely to (A) lead to significant speculation in currencies, securities, or commodities, or (B) significantly endanger the stability of any financial institution; or
(ii) Be likely to significantly frustrate implementation of a proposed action, except that paragraph (a)(9)(ii) of this section shall not apply in any instance where the Board has already disclosed to the public the content or nature of its proposed action, or where the Board is required by law to make such disclosure on its own initiative prior to taking final action on such proposal; or
(10) Specifically concern the issuance of a subpoena, participation in a civil action or proceeding, an action in a foreign court or international tribunal, or an arbitration, or the initiation, conduct, or disposition of a particular case of formal agency adjudication pursuant to the procedures in section 554 of title 5 of the United States Code or otherwise involving a determination on the record after opportunity for a hearing.
§ 261b.6
Public announcement of meetings.
(a) Except as otherwise provided by the Act, public announcement of meetings open to public observation and meetings to be partially or completely closed to public observation pursuant to § 261b.8 of this part will be made at least one week in advance of the meeting. Except to the extent such information is determined to be exempt from disclosure under § 261b.5 of this part, each such public announcement will state the time, place and subject matter of the meeting, whether it is to be open or closed to the public, and the name and phone number of the official designated to respond to requests for information about the meeting.
(b) If a majority of the members of the agency determines by a recorded vote that agency business requires that a meeting covered by paragraph (a) of this section be called at a date earlier than that specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the agency will make a public announcement of the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section at the earliest practicable time.
(c) Changes in the subject matter of a publicly announced meeting, or in the determination to open or close a publicly announced meeting or any portion of a publicly announced meeting to public observation, or in the time or place of a publicly announced meeting made in accordance with the procedures specified in § 261b.9 of this part will be publicly announced at the earliest practicable time.
(d) Public announcements required by this section will be posted at the Board's Public Affairs Office and Freedom of Information Office and may be made available by other means or at other locations as may be desirable.
(e) Immediately following each public announcement required by this section, notice of the time, place and subject matter of a meeting, whether the meeting is open or closed, any change in one of the preceding announcements and the name and telephone number of the official designated by the Board to respond to requests about the meeting, shall also be submitted for publication in the
Federal Register.
§ 261b.7
Meetings closed to public observation under expedited procedures.
(a) Since the Board and the Committee qualifies for the use of expedited procedures under subsection (d)(4) of the Act, meetings or portions thereof exempt under paragraph (a)(4), (a)(8), (a)(9)(i) or (a)(10) of § 261b.5 of this part, will be closed to public observation under the expedited procedures of this section. Following are examples of types of items that, absent compelling contrary circumstances, will qualify for these exemptions: Matters relating
to a specific bank or bank holding company, such as bank branches or mergers, bank holding company formations, or acquisition of an additional bank or acquisition or de novo undertaking of a permissible nonbanking activity; matters relating to a specific savings and loan holding company or its subsidiaries, such as acquisitions, reorganizations, savings and loan holding company formations, conversions, or acquisition or de novo undertaking of a permissible activity; bank regulatory matters, such as applications for membership, issuance of capital notes and investment in bank premises; foreign banking matters; bank supervisory and enforcement matters, such as cease-and-desist and officer removal proceedings; monetary policy matters, such as discount rates, use of the discount window, changes in the limitations on payment of interest on time and savings accounts, and changes in reserve requirements or margin regulations.
(b) At the beginning of each meeting, a portion or portions of which is closed to public observation under expedited procedures pursuant to this section, a recorded vote of the members present will be taken to determine whether a majority of the members of the agency votes to close such meeting of portions of such meeting to public observation.
(c) A copy of the vote, reflecting the vote of each member, and except to the extent such information is determined to be exempt from disclosure under § 261b.5, a public announcement of the time, place and subject matter of the meeting or each closed portion thereof, will be made available at the earliest practicable time at the Board's Public Affairs Office and Freedom of Information Office.
[42 FR 13297, Mar. 10, 1977, as amended at 43 FR 34481, Aug. 4, 1978; 76 FR 56601, Sept. 13, 2011]
§ 261b.8
Meetings closed to public observation under regular procedures.
(a) A meeting or a portion of a meeting will be closed to public observation under regular procedures, or information as to such meeting or portion of a meeting will be withheld only by recorded vote of a majority of the members of the agency when it is determined that the meeting or the portion of the meeting or the withholding of information qualifies for exemption under § 261b.5. Votes by proxy are not allowed.
(b) Except as provided in subsection (c) of this section, a separate vote of the members of the agency will be taken with respect to the closing or the withholding of information as to each meeting or portion thereof which is proposed to be closed to public observation or with respect to which information is proposed to be withheld pursuant to this section.
(c) A single vote may be taken with respect to a series of meetings, a portion or portions of which are proposed to be closed to public observation or with respect to any information concerning such series of meetings proposed to be withheld, so long as each meeting or portion thereof in such series involves the same particular matters and is scheduled to be held no more than thirty days after the initial meeting in such series.
(d) Whenever any person's interests may be directly affected by a portion of a meeting for any of the reasons referred to in exemption (a)(5), (a)(6) or (a)(7) of § 261b.5 of this part, such person may request in writing to the Secretary of the Board that such portion of the meeting be closed to public observation. The Secretary, or in his or her absence, the Acting Secretary of the Board, will transmit the request to the members and upon the request of any one of them a recorded vote will be taken whether to close such meeting to public observation.
(e) Within one day of any vote taken pursuant to paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, the agency will make publicly available at the Board's Public Affairs Office and Freedom of Information Office a written copy of such vote reflecting the vote of each member on the question. If a meeting or a portion of a meeting is to be closed to public observation, the agency, within one day of the vote taken pursuant to paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, will make publicly available at the Board's Public Affairs Office and Freedom of Information Office a full,
written explanation of its action closing the meeting or portion of the meeting together with a list of all persons expected to attend the meeting and their affiliation, except to the extent such information is determined by the agency to be exempt from disclosure under subsection (c) of the Act and § 261b.5 of this part.
(f) Any person may request in writing to the Secretary of the Board that an announced closed meeting, or portion of the meeting, be held open to public observation. The Secretary, or in his or her absence, the Acting Secretary of the Board, will transmit the request to the members of the Board and upon the request of any member a recorded vote will be taken whether to open such meeting to public observation.
[42 FR 13297, Mar. 10, 1977, as amended at 44 FR 11750, Mar. 2, 1979]
§ 261b.9
Changes with respect to publicly announced meeting.
The subject matter of a meeting or the determination to open or close a meeting or a portion of a meeting to public observation may be changed following public announcement under § 261b.6 only if a majority of the members of the agency determines by a recorded vote that agency business so requires and that no earlier announcement of the change was possible. Public announcement of such change and the vote of each member upon such change will be made pursuant to § 261b.6(c). Changes in time, including postponements and cancellations of a publicly announced meeting or portion of a meeting or changes in the place of a publicly announced meeting will be publicly announced pursuant to § 261b.6(c) by the Secretary of the Board or, in the Secretary's absence, the Acting Secretary of the Board.
§ 261b.10
Certification of General Counsel.
Before every meeting or portion of a meeting closed to public observation under § 261b.7 or 261b.8 of this part, the General Counsel, or in the General Counsel's absence, the Acting General Counsel, shall publicly certify whether or not in his or her opinion the meeting may be closed to public observation and shall state each relevant exemptive provision. A copy of such certification, together with a statement from the presiding officer of the meeting setting forth the time and place of the meeting and the persons present, will be retained for the time prescribed in § 261b.11(d).
§ 261b.11
Transcripts, recordings, and minutes.
(a) The agency will maintain a complete transcript or electronic recording or transcription thereof adequate to record fully the proceedings of each meeting or portion of a meeting closed to public observation pursuant to exemption (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(6), (a)(7) or (a)(9)(ii) of § 261b.5 of this part. Transcriptions of recordings will disclose the identity of each speaker.
(b) The agency will maintain either such a transcript, recording or transcription thereof, or a set of minutes that will fully and clearly describe all matters discussed and provide a full and accurate summary of any actions taken and the reasons therefor, including a description of each of the views expressed on any item and the record of any roll call vote (reflecting the vote of each member on the question), for meetings or portions of meetings closed to public observation pursuant to exemptions (a)(8), (a)(9)(A) or (a)(10) of § 261b.5 of this part. The minutes will identify all documents considered in connection with any action taken.
(c) Transcripts, recordings or transcriptions thereof, or minutes will promptly be made available to the public in the Freedom of Information Office except for such item or items of such discussion or testimony as may be determined to contain information that may be withheld under subsection (c) of the Act and § 261b.5 of this part.
(d) A complete verbatim copy of the transcript, a complete copy of the minutes, or a complete electronic recording or verbatim copy of a transcription thereof of each meeting or portion of a meeting closed to public observation will be maintained for a period of at least two years or one year after the conclusion of any agency proceeding with respect to which the meeting or portion thereof was held, whichever occurs later.
§ 261b.12
Procedures for inspection and obtaining copies of transcriptions and minutes.
(a) Any person may inspect or copy a transcript, a recording or transcription of a recording, or minutes described in § 261b.11(c) of this part.
(b) Requests for copies of transcripts, recordings or transcriptions of recordings, or minutes described in § 261b.11(c) of this part shall specify the meeting or the portion of meeting desired and shall be submitted in writing to the Secretary of the Board, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, DC 20551. Copies of documents identified in minutes may be made available to the public upon request under the provisions of 12 CFR part 261 (Rules Regarding Availability of Information).
§ 261b.13
Fees.
(a) Copies of transcripts, recordings or transcriptions of recordings, or minutes requested pursuant to section § 261b.12(b) of this part will be provided at the cost of 10¢ per standard page for photocopying or at a cost not to exceed the actual cost of printing, typing, or otherwise preparing such copies.
(b) Documents may be furnished without charge where total charges are less than $2.
Pt. 262

# PART 262—RULES OF PROCEDURE
Sec.
262.1
Basis and scope.
262.2
Procedure for regulations.
262.3
Applications.
262.4
Adjudication with formal hearing.
262.5
Appearance and practice.
262.6
Forms.
262.7
Use of supervisory guidance.
262.8-262.24
[Reserved]
262.25
Policy statement regarding notice of applications; timeliness of comments; informal meetings.
Appendix A to Part 262—Statement Clarifying the Role of Supervisory Guidance Statement Clarifying the Role of Supervisory Guidance

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552; 12 U.S.C. 248, 321, 325, 326, 483, 602, 611a, 625, 1467a, 1828(c), 1842, 1844, 1850a, 1867, 3105, 3106, 3108, 5361, 5368, 5467, and 5469.

# Source:
38 FR 6807, Mar. 13, 1973, unless otherwise noted.
§ 262.1
Basis and scope.
This part is issued pursuant to section 552 of title 5 of the United States Code, which requires that every agency shall publish in the
Federal Register
statements of the general course and method by which its functions are channeled and determined, rules of procedure, and descriptions of forms available or the places at which forms may be obtained.
§ 262.2
Procedure for regulations.
(a)
Notice.
Notices of proposed regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Board”) or amendments thereto are published in the
Federal Register,
except as specified in paragraph (e) of this section or otherwise excepted by law. Such notices include a statement of the terms of the proposed regulations or amendments and a description of the subjects and issues involved; but the giving of such notices does not necessarily indicate the Board's final approval of any feature of any such proposal. The notices also include a reference to the authority for the proposed regulations or amendments and a statement of the time, place, and nature of public participation.
(b)
Public participation.
The usual method of public submission of data, views, or arguments is in writing. It is ordinarily preferable that they be sent to the Secretary of the Board, Washington, DC 20551, with copies to the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank. The locations of the 12 Federal Reserve Banks and the boundaries of the Federal Reserve districts are shown in the appendix to the Board's rules of organization. Such material will be made available for inspection and copying upon request, except as provided in § 261.6(b) of this chapter regarding availability of information.
(c)
Preparation of draft and action by Board.
In the light of consideration of all relevant matter presented or ascertained, the appropriate division of the Board's staff, in collaboration with other divisions, prepares drafts of proposed regulations or amendments, and the staff submits them to the Board. The Board takes such action as it deems appropriate in the public interest. Any other documents that may be
necessary to carry out any decision by the Board in the matter are usually prepared by the Legal Division, in collaboration with the other divisions of the staff.
(d)
Effective dates.
Any substantive regulation or amendment thereto issued by the Board is published not less than 30 days prior to the effective date thereof, except as specified in paragraph (e) of this section or as otherwise excepted by law.
(e)
Exceptions as to notice or effective date.
In certain situations, notice and public participation with respect to proposed regulations may be impracticable, unnecessary, contrary to the public interest, or otherwise not required in the public interest, or there may be reason and good cause in the public interest why the effective date should not be deferred for 30 days. The reason or reasons in such cases usually are that such notice, public participation, or deferment of effective date would prevent the action from becoming effective as promptly as necessary in the public interest, would permit speculators or others to reap unfair profits or to interfere with the Board's actions taken with a view to accommodating commerce and business and with regard to their bearing upon the general credit situation of the country, would provoke other consequences contrary to the public interest, would unreasonably interfere with the Board's necessary functions with respect to management or personnel, would not aid the persons affected, or would otherwise serve no useful purpose. The following may be mentioned as some examples of situations in which advance notice or deferred effective date, or both, will ordinarily be omitted in the public interest: The review and determination of discount rates established by Federal Reserve Banks, and changes in general requirements regarding reserves of member banks, maximum interest rates on time and savings deposits, or credit for purchasing or carrying securities.
[38 FR 6807, Mar. 13, 1973, as amended at 54 FR 33183, Aug. 14, 1989]
§ 262.3
Applications.
(a)
Forms.
Any application, request, or petition (hereafter referred to as “application”) for the approval, authority, determination, or permission of the Board with respect to any action for which such approval, authority, determination, or permission is required by law or regulation of the Board (including actions authorized to be taken by a Federal Reserve Bank or others on behalf of the Board pursuant to authority delegated under Part 265 of this chapter) shall be submitted in accordance with the pertinent form, if any, prescribed by the Board. Copies of any such form and details regarding information to be included therein may be obtained from any Federal Reserve Bank. Any application for which no form is prescribed should be signed by the person making the application or by his duly authorized agent, should state the facts involved, the action requested, and the applicant's interest in the matter, and should indicate the reasons why the application should be granted. Applications for access to, or copying of, records of the Board should be submitted as provided in § 261.9(a) of this chapter.
(b)
Notice of applications.
(1)(i) In the case of applications,
(A) By a State member bank for the establishment of a domestic branch or other facility that would be authorized to receive deposits,
(B) To become a bank holding company (except as provided in § 225.15 of this chapter),
(C) By a bank holding company to acquire ownership or control of shares or assets of a bank, or to merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company,
(D) To become a savings and loan holding company (except as provided in § 238.14 of this chapter), and
(E) By a savings and loan holding company to acquire ownership or control of shares or assets of a savings association, or to merge or consolidate with any other savings and loan holding company, the applicant shall cause to be published a notice in the form prescribed by the Board.
(ii) The notice shall be placed in the classified advertising legal notices section of the newspaper, and must provide an opportunity for the public to give written comment on the application to the appropriate Federal Reserve
Bank for the period specified in Regulation H (12 CFR part 208) in the case of applications specified in § 262.3(b)(1)(i)(A), and for at least thirty days after the date of publication in the case of applications specified in § 262.3(b)(1)(i)(B) and (C). Within 7 days of publication, the applicant shall submit its application to the appropriate Reserve Bank for acceptance along with a copy of the notice. If the Reserve Bank has not accepted the application as complete within ninety days of the date of publication of the notice, the applicant may be required to republish notice of the application. Such notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in—
(A) [Reserved]
(B) The community or communities in which the head office of the bank and the proposed branch or other facility (other than an electronic funds transfer facility) are located in the case of an application for the establishment of a domestic branch or other facility that would be authorized to receive deposits, other than an application incidental to an application by a bank for merger, consolidation, or acquisition of assets or assumption of liabilities,
(C) The community or communities in which the head office of the bank, the office to be closed, and the office to be opened are located in the case of an application for the relocation of a domestic branch office,
(D) The community or communities in which the head office of each of the banks to be party to the merger, consolidation, or acquisition of assets or assumption of liabilities are located in the case of an application by a bank for merger, consolidation, or acquisition of assets or assumption of liabilities,
(E) The community or communities in which the head offices of the largest subsidiary bank, if any, or an applicant and of each bank, shares of which are to be directly or indirectly acquired, are located in the case of applications under section 3 of the Bank Holding Company Act, or
(F) The community or communities in which the head offices of the largest subsidiary savings association, if any, or an applicant and of each savings association, shares of which are to be directly or indirectly acquired, are located in the case of applications under section 10 of the Home Owners' Loan Act.
(2) In addition to the foregoing notice, an applicant, in the case of an application to relocate a domestic branch office or other facility that would be authorized to receive deposits, shall post in a conspicuous public place in the lobby of the office to be closed a notice containing the information specified in § 262.3(b)(1). Such notice should be posted on the date of the notice required by § 262.3(b)(1).
(3) In the case of an application for a merger, consolidation, or acquisition of assets or assumption of liabilities, if the acquiring, assuming, or resulting bank is to be a State member bank, the applicant shall cause to be published notice in the form prescribed by the Board. The notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the community or communities in which the head office of each of the banks to be a party to the merger, consolidation, or acquisition of assets or assumption of liabilities is located. The notice shall be published on at least three occasions at appropriate intervals. The last publication of the notice shall appear at least thirty days after the first publication. The notice must provide an opportunity for the public to give written comment on the application to the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank for at least thirty days after the date of the first publication of the notice. Within seven days of publication of notice for the first time, the applicant shall submit its application to the appropriate Reserve Bank for acceptance, along with a copy of the notice. If the Reserve Bank has not accepted the application as complete within ninety days of the date of the first publication of the notice, the applicant may be required to republish notice of the application.
(c)
Filing of applications.
Any application should be sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of the district in which the head office of the parent banking organization is located, except as otherwise specified on application forms, and that Bank will forward it to the Board when appropriate; however, in the case
of foreign banking organization, as defined in § 211.23(a)(2) of this chapter, applications shall be sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of the district in which the operations of the organization's subsidiary banks are principally conducted. In the case of a foreign banking organization that is not a bank holding company but that has one or more branches, agencies, or commercial lending companies in any State of the United States or the District of Columbia, applications shall be sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of the district in which the organization's banking assets are the largest. Applications of a member bank subsidiary, however, should be filed with the Reserve Bank of the district in which the member bank is located.
(d)
Analysis by staff.
In every case, the Reserve Bank makes such investigation as may be necessary, and, except when acting pursuant to delegated authority, reports the relevant facts, with its recommendation, to the Board. In the light of consideration of all relevant matter presented or ascertained, the Board's staff prepares and submits to the Board comments on the subject.
(e)
Submission of comments and requests for hearing.
The Board is only required to consider a comment or a request for a hearing with respect to an application or notice if it is in writing and received by the Secretary of the Board or the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank on or before the latest date prescribed in any notice with respect to the application or notice, or where no such date is prescribed, on or before the 30th day after the date notice is first published. Similarly, the Board will consider comments on an application from the Attorney General or a banking supervisory authority to which notification of receipt of an application has been given, only if such comment is received by the Secretary of the Board within 30 days of the date of the letter giving such notification. Any comment on an application or notice that requests a hearing must include a statement of why a written presentation would not suffice in lieu of a hearing, identifying specifically any questions of fact that are in dispute and summarizing the evidence that would be presented at a hearing. In every case where a timely comment or request for hearing is received as provided herein, a copy of such comment or request shall be forwarded promptly to the applicant for its response. The Board will consider the applicant's response only if it is in writing and sent to the Secretary of the Board on or before eight business days after the date of the letter by which it is forwarded to the applicant. At the same time it transmits its response to the Board, the applicant should transmit a copy of its response to the person or supervisory authority making such comment or requesting a hearing. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board may, in its sole discretion and without notifying the parties, take into consideration the substance of comments with respect to an application, (but not requests for hearing) that are not received within the time periods provided herein.
(f)
Action on applications.
The Board takes such action as it deems appropriate in the public interest. Such documents as may be necessary to carry out any decision by the Board are prepared by the Board's staff. With respect to actions taken by a Federal Reserve Bank on behalf of the Board under delegated authority, statements and necessary documents are prepared by the staff of such Federal Reserve Bank.
(g)
Notice of action.
Prompt notice is given to the applicant of the granting or denial in whole or in part of any application. In the case of a denial, except in affirming a prior denial or where the denial is self-explanatory, such notice is accompanied by a simple statement of the grounds for such action.
(h)
Action at Board's initiative.
When the Board, without receiving an application, takes action with respect to any matter as to which opportunity for hearing is not required by statute or Board regulation, similar procedure is followed, including investigations, reports, and recommendations by the Board's staff and by the Reserve Banks, where appropriate.
(i)
General procedures for bank holding company, savings and loan holding company, and merger applications.
In addition to procedures applicable under
other provisions of this part, the following procedures are applicable in connection with the Board's consideration of applications under sections 3 and 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842 and 1843), hereafter referred to as “section 3 applications” or “section 4 applications,” applications under section 10(c), (e), and (o) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a), hereafter referred to as “section 10 applications,” and of applications under section 18(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1823), hereafter called “merger applications.” Except as otherwise indicated, the following procedures apply to all such applications.
(1) The Board issues each week a list that identifies section 3, section 4, section 10, and merger applications received and acted upon during the preceding week by the Board or the Reserve Banks pursuant to delegated authority. Notice of receipt of all section 3 section 4(c)(8), and section 10 applications acted on by the Board is published in the
Federal Register.
(2) If a hearing is required by law or if the Board determines that a formal hearing for the purpose of taking evidence is desirable, the Board issues an order for such a hearing, and a notice thereof is published in the
Federal Register.
Any such formal hearing is conducted by an administrative law judge in accordance with subparts A and B of the Board's Rules of Practice for Hearings (part 263 of this chapter).
(3) In any case in which a formal hearing is not ordered by the Board, the Board may afford the applicant and other properly interested persons (including Governmental agencies) an opportunity to present views orally before the Board or its designated representative. Unless otherwise ordered by the Board, any such oral presentation is public and notice of such public proceeding is published in the
Federal Register.
(4) Each action taken by the Board on an application is embodied in an order that indicates the votes of members of the Board. The order either contains reasons for the Board's action (i.e., an expanded order) or is accompanied by a statement of the reasons for the Board's action. Both the order and any accompanying statement are released to the press. Each order accompanied by a statement and any order of general interest, together with a list of other orders, are published in the Federal Reserve Bulletin. Action by a Reserve Bank under delegated authority as provided for under part 265 of this chapter is reflected in a letter of notification to the applicant.
(5) Unless the Board shall otherwise direct, each section 3, section 4, section 10, and merger application is made available for inspection by the public except for portions thereof as to which the Board determines that nondisclosure is warranted under section 552(b) of title 5 of the United States Code.
(j)
Special procedures for certain applications.
The following types of applications require procedures exclusive of, or in addition to, those described in paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Special rules pertaining to section 3 and merger applications follow:
(i) Each order of the Board and each letter of notification by a Reserve Bank acting pursuant to delegated authority approving a section 3 application includes, pursuant to the Act approved July 1, 1966 (12 U.S.C. 1849(b)), a requirement that the transaction approved shall not be consummated before the 30th calendar day following the date of such order.
(ii) Each order of the Board approving a merger application includes, pursuant to the Act approved February 21, 1966 (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)(6)), a requirement that the transaction approved shall not be consummated before the 30th calendar day following the date of such order, except as the Board may otherwise determine pursuant to emergency situations as to which the Act permits consummation at earlier dates.
(iii) Each order or each letter of notification approving an application also includes, as a condition of approval, a requirement that the transaction approved shall be consummated within 3 months and, in the case of acquisition by a holding company of stock of a newly organized bank, a requirement that such bank shall be opened for business within 6 months, but such periods may be extended for good cause by the Board (or by the appropriate
Federal Reserve Bank where authority to grant such extensions is delegated to the Reserve Bank).
(2) For special rules governing procedures for section 4 applications, refer to § 225.23 of this chapter.
(3) Special rules pertaining to applications filed pursuant to section 10(e) and (o) of HOLA follow:
(i) Each order or each letter of notification approving an application also includes, as a condition of approval, a requirement that the transaction approved shall be consummated within 3 months and, in the case of acquisition by a holding company of stock of a newly organized savings association, a requirement that such savings association shall be opened for business within 6 months, but such periods may be extended for good cause by the Board (or by the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank where authority to grant such extensions is delegated to the Reserve Bank).
(ii) [Reserved]
(4) [Reserved]
(5) For special rules governing procedures for section 4(c)(13) applications, refer to § 225.4(f) of this chapter.
(k)
Reconsideration of certain Board actions.
The Board may reconsider any action taken by it on an application upon receipt by the Secretary of the Board of a written request for reconsideration from any party to such application, on or before the 15th day after the effective date of the Board's action. Such request should specify the reasons why the Board should reconsider its action, and present relevant facts that for good cause shown, were not previously presented to the Board. Within 10 days of receipt of such a request, the General Counsel, acting pursuant to delegated authority (12 CFR 265.2(b)(7)), shall determine whether or not the request for reconsideration should be granted, and shall notify all parties to the application orally by telephone of this determination within 10 days. Such notification will be confirmed promptly in writing. In the exercise of this authority, the General Counsel shall confer with the Directors of other interested Divisions of the Board or their designees. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board may, on its own motion if it deems reconsideration appropriate, elect to reconsider its action with respect to any application, and the parties to such application shall be notified by the Secretary of the Board of its election as provided above. If it is determined that the Board should reconsider its action with respect to an application, such action will be stayed and will not be final until the Board has acted on the application upon reconsideration. If appropriate, notice of reconsideration of an application will be published promptly in the
Federal Register.
(l)
Waiver.
The Board, or the officer or Reserve Bank authorized to approve an application, may waive or modify any procedural requirements for that application prescribed or cited in this section and may excuse any failure to comply with them upon a finding that immediate action on the application is necessary to prevent the probable failure of a bank or company or that an emergency exists requiring expeditious action.
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a), 1843, and 1844(b), 12 U.S.C. 1828(c), 321 and 248(i))
[38 FR 6807, Mar. 13, 1973]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 262.3, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 262.4
Adjudication with formal hearing.
In connection with adjudication with respect to which a formal hearing is required by law or is ordered by the Board, the procedure is set forth in part 263 of this chapter, entitled “Rules of Practice for Formal Hearings.”
§ 262.5
Appearance and practice.
Appearance and practice before the Board in all matters are governed by § 263.3 of this chapter.
§ 262.6
Forms.
Necessary forms to be used in connection with applications and other matters are available at the Federal Reserve Banks. A list of all such forms, which is reviewed and revised periodically, may be obtained from any Federal Reserve Bank.
(a) This action is taken pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of section 552 of title 5 of the United States Code.
(b) The provisions of section 553 of title 5, United States Code, relating to notice and public participation and to deferred effective dates, are not followed in connection with the adoption of this action, because the rules involved are procedural in nature and accordingly do not constitute substantive rules subject to the requirements of such section.
§ 262.7
Use of supervisory guidance.
(a)
Purpose.
The Board issues regulations and guidance as part of its supervisory function. This section reiterates the distinctions between regulations and guidance, as stated in the Statement Clarifying the Role of Supervisory Guidance (appendix A to this part) (Statement).
(b)
Implementation of the Statement Clarifying the Role of Supervisory Guidance.
The Statement describes the official policy of the Board with respect to the use of supervisory guidance in the supervisory process. The Statement is binding on the Board.
(c)
Rule of construction.
This section does not alter the legal status of guidelines authorized by statute, including but not limited to, 12 U.S.C. 1831p-1, to create binding legal obligations.
[86 FR 18179, Apr. 8, 2021]
§§ 262.8-262.24
[Reserved]
§ 262.25
Policy statement regarding notice of applications; timeliness of comments; informal meetings.
(a)
Notice of applications.
A bank or company applying to the Board for a deposit-taking facility must first publish notice of its application in local newspapers. This requirement, found in § 262.3(b)(1) of the Board's Rules of Procedure covers applications under the Bank Holding Company Act, Bank Merger Act, and Home Owners' Loan Act, as well as applications for membership in the Federal Reserve System and for new branches of State member banks. Notices of these applications are published in newspapers of general circulation in the communities where the applicant intends to do business as well as in the community where the applicant's head office is located. These notices are important in calling the public's attention to an applicant's plans and giving the public a chance to comment on these plans. To improve the effectiveness of the notices, the Board has supplemented its notice procedures as follows.
(1) The Board has adopted standard forms of notice for use by applicants that will specify the exact date on which the comment period on the application ends, which may not be less than thirty calendar days from the date of publication of the notice. The newspaper forms also provide the name and telephone number of the Community Affairs Officer of the appropriate Reserve Bank as the person to call to obtain more information about submitting comments on an application. In general, the Community Affairs Officer will be available to answer questions of a general nature concerning the submission of comments and the processing of applications.
(2) The Board also publishes notice of bank holding company applications for bank acquisitions (but not for bank mergers or branches) and savings and loan holding company applications for savings association acquisitions (but not for savings association mergers or branches) in the
Federal Register
after the application is received and the Community Affairs Officer can provide the exact date on which this comment period ends. (The
Federal Register
comment period will generally end after the date specified in the newspaper notice.)
(3) In addition to the formal newspaper and
Federal Register
notices discussed above, each Reserve Bank publishes a weekly list of applications submitted to the Reserve Bank for which newspaper notices have been published. Any person or organization may arrange to have the list mailed to them regularly, or may request particular lists, by contacting the Reserve Bank's Community Affairs Officer. Each Reserve Bank's list includes only applications submitted to that particular Reserve Bank, and persons or groups should request lists from each Reserve Bank having jurisdiction over
applications in which they may be interested. Since the lists are prepared as a courtesy by the Reserve Bank, and are not intended to replace any formal notice required by statute or regulation, the Reserve Banks and the Board do not assume responsibility for errors or omissions. In addition, the weekly lists prepared by Reserve Banks include certain applications by bank holding companies and savings and loan holding companies for nonbank and non-depository institution acquisitions, respectively, filed with the Reserve Bank.
(4) With respect to applications by bank holding companies and savings and loan holding companies to engage
de novo
in nonbank activities or make acquisitions of nonbank firms, the Board publishes notice of most of these applications in the
Federal Register
when the applications are filed. Notice of certain small acquisitions may be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area(s) to be served. While applications for nonbanking activities are not covered by the provisions of the Community Reinvestment Act or the notice provisions of § 262.3 of the Board's Rules of Procedure, the provisions of this Statement apply to such applications.
(b)
Timeliness of comments.
(1) All comments must be actually received by the Board or the Reserve Bank on or before the last date of the comment period specified in the notice. Where more than one notice is published with respect to an application, comments must be received on or before the last date of the latest comment period. The Board's Rules allow it to disregard comments received after the comment period expires. In particular, § 262.3(e) of the Board's Rules of Procedure states that the Board will not consider comments on an application that are not received on or before the expiration of the comment period. Thus, a commenter who fails to comment on an application within the specified comment period (or any extension) may be precluded from participating in the consideration of the application.
(2) In cases where a commenter for good cause is unable to send its comment within the specified comment period, § 265.2(a)(10) of the Board's Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority (12 CFR 265.2(a)(10)) allows the Secretary of the Board to grant requests for an extension of the period. Under this provision, upon receipt of a request received on or before the expiration of the comment period, the Secretary may grant a brief extension upon clear demonstration of hardship or other meritorious reason for seeking additional time.
(c)
Private meetings.
When a timely protest to approval of an application is received, the Reserve Bank may arrange a meeting between the applicant and the protestant to clarify and narrow the issues, and to provide a forum for the resolution of differences between the protestant and the applicant. If the Reserve Bank decides that a private meeting would be appropriate, the Reserve Bank will arrange a private meeting soon after the receipt of a protest and the applicant's response, if any, to the protest. In scheduling the meeting, the Reserve Bank will consider convenience to the parties with respect to the time and place of the meeting. A decision to hold a private meeting will not preclude the Reserve Bank or the Board from holding a public meeting or other proceeding if it is deemed appropriate.
(d)
Public meetings.
The Board's General Counsel (in consultation with the Reserve Bank and the directors of other interested divisions of the Board) may order that a public meeting or other proceeding be held if requested by the applicant or a protestant who files a timely protest, or if such a proceeding appears appropriate. In most instances, the determination to order a public meeting will be made after a private meeting has been held; however, where appropriate a public meeting may be convened immediately after receipt of the protest and the applicant's response, if any. Additional information may be requested prior to making a determination to convene a public meeting. In these cases, a determination will be made within ten days from the date all relevant information is received. The public meeting will be scheduled as soon as possible, but in no event, later than 30 days after the decision to hold the proceeding is made. The purpose of the public meeting will
be to elicit information, to clarify factual issues related to the application and to provide an opportunity for interested individuals to provide testimony. The Board has adopted the following guidelines to be used for convening public meetings, although specific provisions may be altered by the General Counsel if circumstances warrant.
(1)
Requesting a public meeting.
A meeting may be requested by a person or an organization objecting to the application during the comment period, and by the applicant during the period within which it must respond to comments. Such a request must be timely and in writing.
(i) A protest does not have to be filed in a legal brief or other format in order for a public meeting to be granted. The Community Affairs Officer at the Reserve Bank will be available to assist any member of the public regarding the types of information generally included in protests; the format generally used by protestants; and any other specific questions about the procedures of the Federal Reserve System regarding protested applications.
(ii) In general, a protest should identify the protestant, state the basis for objection to approval of the application, and provide available written evidence to support the objection. Objections to approval of an application must relate to the factors that the Board is authorized to consider in acting on an application. Generally, these factors relate to the financial and managerial resources of the companies and banks involved, the effects of the proposal on competition, and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served by the companies and banks involved. If a public meeting is requested, the protest should indicate that there are members of the public who wish to speak on the issues in a public forum.
(iii) The protest will be transmitted by the Reserve Bank to the applicant, and the applicant will generally be allowed eight business days to respond in writing to the protest.
(2)
Arranging the public meeting.
Public meetings will be arranged and presided over by a representative of the Federal Reserve System (“Presiding Officer”). In determining the time and place for the public meeting, such factors as convenience to the parties, the number of people expected to attend the meeting, access to public transportation and possible after-hour security problems will be taken into account.
(3)
Conducting the public meeting.
Prior to the meeting, all necessary steps will be taken to ensure that the meeting is conducted appropriately, including scheduling of witnesses, submission of written materials and other arrangements. In conducting the public meeting the Presiding Officer will have the authority and discretion to ensure that the meeting proceeds in a fair and orderly manner. Generally, the public meeting will consist of opening and closing remarks by the Presiding Officer, a presentation by the protestant and a presentation by the applicant. An official transcript will be made of the proceedings and entered into the record. The conclusion of the public meeting normally marks the close of the public portion of the record on the application.
(4)
Notification of Board decision on the application.
After a decision is made on the application, and the applicant is notified of the decision, staff will notify the protestant by telephone. This notification will be confirmed promptly in writing. As set forth in § 262.3(k) of the Board's Rules of Procedure (12 CFR 262.3(k)) or § 265.3 of the Board's Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority (12 CFR 265.3), a party to the application may request reconsideration of the Board's order, or review of the Reserve Bank's decision.
[49 FR 5603, Feb. 14, 1984, as amended at 57 FR 41642, Sept. 11, 1992; 76 FR 56602, Sept. 13, 2011]
Pt. 262, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 262—Statement Clarifying the Role of Supervisory Guidance Statement Clarifying the Role of Supervisory Guidance
The Board is issuing this statement to explain the role of supervisory guidance and to describe the Board's approach to supervisory guidance.

# Difference Between Supervisory Guidance and Laws or Regulations
The Board issues various types of supervisory guidance, including interagency statements, advisories, letters, policy statements, questions and answers, and frequently asked questions, to its supervised institutions. A law or regulation has the force and effect of law.
1
Unlike a law or regulation, supervisory guidance does not have the force and effect of law, and the Board does not take enforcement actions based on supervisory guidance. Rather, supervisory guidance outlines the Board's supervisory expectations or priorities and articulates the Board's general views regarding appropriate practices for a given subject area. Supervisory guidance often provides examples of practices that the Board generally considers consistent with safety-and-soundness standards or other applicable laws and regulations, including those designed to protect consumers. Supervised institutions at times request supervisory guidance, and such guidance is important to provide insight to industry, as well as supervisory staff, in a transparent way that helps to ensure consistency in the supervisory approach.
1
Government agencies issue regulations that generally have the force and effect of law. Such regulations generally take effect only after the agency proposes the regulation to the public and responds to comments on the proposal in a final rulemaking document.

# Ongoing Efforts To Clarify the Role of Supervisory Guidance
The Board is clarifying the following policies and practices related to supervisory guidance:
• The Board intends to limit the use of numerical thresholds or other “bright-lines” in describing expectations in supervisory guidance. Where numerical thresholds are used, the Board intends to clarify that the thresholds are exemplary only and not suggestive of requirements. The Board will continue to use numerical thresholds to tailor, and otherwise make clear, the applicability of supervisory guidance or programs to supervised institutions, and as required by statute.
• Examiners will not criticize (through the issuance of matters requiring attention), a supervised financial institution for, and the Board will not issue an enforcement action on the basis of, a “violation” of or “non-compliance” with supervisory guidance. In some situations, examiners may reference (including in writing) supervisory guidance to provide examples of safe and sound conduct, appropriate consumer protection and risk management practices, and other actions for addressing compliance with laws or regulations.
• Supervisory criticisms should continue to be specific as to practices, operations, financial conditions, or other matters that could have a negative effect on the safety and soundness of the financial institution, could cause consumer harm, or could cause violations of laws, regulations, final agency orders, or other legally enforceable conditions.
• The Board has at times sought, and may continue to seek, public comment on supervisory guidance. Seeking public comment on supervisory guidance does not mean that the guidance is intended to be a regulation or have the force and effect of law. The comment process helps the Board to improve its understanding of an issue, to gather information on institutions' risk management practices, or to seek ways to achieve a supervisory objective most effectively and with the least burden on institutions.
• The Board will aim to reduce the issuance of multiple supervisory guidance documents on the same topic and will generally limit such multiple issuances going forward.
• The Board will continue efforts to make the role of supervisory guidance clear in communications to examiners and to supervised financial institutions and encourage supervised institutions with questions about this statement or any applicable supervisory guidance to discuss the questions with their appropriate agency contact.
[86 FR 18179, Apr. 8, 2021]
Pt. 263

# PART 263—RULES OF PRACTICE FOR HEARINGS

# Subpart A—Uniform Rules of Practice and Procedure
Sec.
263.1
Scope.
263.2
Rules of construction.
263.3
Definitions.
263.4
Authority of the Board.
263.5
Authority of the administrative law judge (ALJ).
263.6
Appearance and practice in adjudicatory proceedings.
263.7
Good faith certification.
263.8
Conflicts of interest.
263.9
Ex parte
communications.
263.10
Filing of papers.
263.11
Service of papers.
263.12
Construction of time limits.
263.13
Change of time limits.
263.14
Witness fees and expenses.
263.15
Opportunity for informal settlement.
263.16
The Board's right to conduct examination.
263.17
Collateral attacks on adjudicatory proceeding.
263.18
Commencement of proceeding and contents of notice.
263.19
Answer.
263.20
Amended pleadings.
263.21
Failure to appear.
263.22
Consolidation and severance of actions.
263.23
Motions.
263.24
Scope of document discovery.
263.25
Request for document discovery from parties.
263.26
Document subpoenas to nonparties.
263.27
Deposition of witness unavailable for hearing.
263.28
Interlocutory review.
263.29
Summary disposition.
263.30
Partial summary disposition.
263.31
Scheduling and prehearing conferences.
263.32
Prehearing submissions.
263.33
Public hearings.
263.34
Hearing subpoenas.
263.35
Conduct of hearings.
263.36
Evidence.
263.37
Post-hearing filings.
263.38
Recommended decision and filing of record.
263.39
Exceptions to recommended decision.
263.40
Review by the Board.
263.41
Stays pending judicial review.

# Subpart B—Board Local Rules Supplementing the Uniform Rules
263.50
Purpose and scope.
263.51
Definitions.
263.52
Address for filing.
263.53
Discovery depositions.
263.54
Delegation to the Office of Financial Institution Adjudication.
263.55
Board as Presiding Officer.
263.56
Initial licensing proceedings.
263.57
Sanctions relating to conduct in an adjudicatory proceeding.

# Subpart C—Rules and Procedures for Assessment and Collection of Civil Money Penalties
263.60
Scope.
263.61
Opportunity for informal proceeding.
263.62
Relevant considerations for assessment of civil penalty.
263.63
Assessment order.
263.64
Payment of civil penalty.
263.65
Civil money penalty inflation adjustments.

# Subpart D—Rules and Procedures Applicable to Suspension or Removal of an Institution-Affiliated Party Where a Felony is Charged or Proven
263.70
Purpose and scope.
263.71
Notice or order of suspension, removal, or prohibition.
263.72
Request for informal hearing.
263.73
Order for informal hearing.
263.74
Decision of the Board.

# Subpart E—Procedures for Issuance and Enforcement of Directives To Maintain Adequate Capital
263.80
Purpose and scope.
263.81
Definitions.
263.82
Establishment of minimum capital levels.
263.83
Issuance of capital directives.
263.84
Enforcement of directive.
263.85
Establishment of increased capital level for specific institutions.

# Subpart F—Practice Before the Board
263.90
Scope.
263.91
Censure, suspension or debarment.
263.92
Definitions.
263.93
Eligibility to practice.
263.94
Conduct warranting sanctions.
263.95
Initiation of disciplinary proceeding.
263.96
Conferences.
263.97
Proceedings under this subpart.
263.98
Effect of suspension, debarment or censure.
263.99
Petition for reinstatement.

# Subpart G—Rules Regarding Claims Under the Equal Access to Justice Act
263.100
Authority and scope.
263.101
Standards for awards.
263.102
Prevailing party.
263.103
Eligibility of applicants.
263.104
Application for awards.
263.105
Statement of net worth.
263.106
Measure of awards.
263.107
Statement of fees and expenses.
263.108
Responses to application.
263.109
Further proceedings.
263.110
Recommended decision.
263.111
Action by the Board.

# Subpart H—Issuance and Review of Orders Pursuant to Prompt Corrective Action Provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
263.201
Scope.
263.202
Directives to take prompt regulatory action.
263.203
Procedures for reclassifying a state member bank based on criteria other than capital.
263.204
Order to dismiss a director or senior executive officer.
263.205
Enforcement of directives.

# Subpart I—Submission and Review of Safety and Soundness Compliance Plans and Issuance of Orders To Correct Safety and Soundness Deficiencies
263.300
Scope.
263.301
Purpose.
263.302
Determination and notification of failure to meet safety and soundness standard and request for compliance plan.
263.303
Filing of safety and soundness compliance plan.
263.304
Issuance of orders to correct deficiencies and to take or refrain from taking other actions.
263.305
Enforcement of orders.

# Subpart J—Removal, Suspension, and Debarment of Accountants From Performing Audit Services
263.400
Scope.
263.401
Definitions.
263.402
Removal, suspension, or debarment.
263.403
Automatic removal, suspension, and debarment.
263.404
Notice of removal, suspension, or debarment.
263.405
Petition for reinstatement.

# Subpart K—Formal Investigative Proceedings
263.450
Scope.
263.451
Definitions.
263.452
Conduct of a formal investigative proceeding.
263.453
Powers of the designated representative.
263.454
Confidentiality of proceedings.
263.455
Transcripts.
263.456
Rights of witnesses.
263.457
Subpoenas.
Appendix A to Part 263—Rules Applicable to Proceedings Initiated Before April 1, 2024

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 504, 554-557; 12 U.S.C. 248, 324, 334, 347a, 504, 505, 1464, 1467, 1467a, 1817(j), 1818, 1820(k), 1829, 1831o, 1831p-1, 1832(c), 1847(b), 1847(d), 1884, 1972(2)(F), 3105, 3108, 3110, 3349, 3907, 3909(d), 4717, 5323, 5362, 5365, 5463, 5464, 5466, 5467; 15 U.S.C. 21, 78l(i), 78o-4, 78o-5, 78u-2; 1639e(K); 28 U.S.C. 2461 note; 31 U.S.C. 5321; and 42 U.S.C. 4012a.

# Source:
56 FR 38052, Aug. 9, 1991, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Uniform Rules of Practice and Procedure

# Source:
88 FR 89909, Dec. 28, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 263.1
Scope.
This subpart prescribes Uniform Rules of practice and procedure applicable to adjudicatory proceedings required to be conducted on the record after opportunity for a hearing under the following statutory provisions:
(a) Cease-and-desist proceedings under section 8(b) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (“FDIA”) (12 U.S.C. 1818(b));
(b) Removal and prohibition proceedings under section 8(e) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1818(e));
(c) Change-in-control proceedings under section 7(j)(4) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1817(j)(4)) to determine whether the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Board”) should issue an order to approve or disapprove a person's proposed acquisition of a state member bank, bank holding company, or savings and loan holding company;
(d) Proceedings under section 15C(c)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) (15 U.S.C. 78o-5), to impose sanctions upon any government securities broker or dealer or upon any person associated or seeking to become associated with a government securities broker or dealer for which the Board is the appropriate agency;
(e) Assessment of civil money penalties by the Board against institutions, institution-affiliated parties, and certain other persons for which the Board is the appropriate agency for any violation of:
(1) Any provision of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (“BHC Act”), or any order or regulation issued thereunder, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1847(b) and (d);
(2) Sections 19, 22, 23, 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act (“FRA”), or any regulation or order issued thereunder and certain unsafe or unsound practices or breaches of fiduciary duty, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 504 and 505;
(3) Section 9 of the FRA pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 324;
(4) Section 106(b) of the Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970 and certain unsafe or unsound practices or breaches of fiduciary duty, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1972(2)(F);
(5) Any provision of the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, or any regulation or order issued thereunder and certain unsafe or unsound practices or breaches of fiduciary duty, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1817(j)(16);
(6) Any provision of the International Lending Supervision Act of 1983 (“ILSA”) or any rule, regulation or order issued thereunder, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 3909;
(7) Any provision of the International Banking Act of 1978 (“IBA”) or any rule, regulation or order issued thereunder, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 3108;
(8) Certain provisions of the Exchange Act, pursuant to section 21B of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78u-2);
(9) Section 1120 of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3349), or any order or regulation issued thereunder;
(10) The terms of any final or temporary order issued under section 8 of the FDIA or of any written agreement executed by the Board or the former Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”), the terms of any condition imposed in writing by the Board or the former OTS in connection with the grant of an application or request, and certain unsafe or unsound practices or breaches of fiduciary duty or law or regulation pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1818(i)(2);
(11) Any provision of law referenced in section 102(f) of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4012a(f)) or any order or regulation issued thereunder;
(12) Any provision of law referenced in 31 U.S.C. 5321 or any order or regulation issued thereunder;
(13) Section 5 of the Home Owners' Loan Act (“HOLA”) or any regulation or order issued thereunder, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1464(d), (s) and (v);
(14) Section 9 of the HOLA or any regulation or order issued thereunder, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1467(d); and
(15) Section 10 of the HOLA, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1467a(i) and (r);
(f) Remedial action under section 102(g) of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4012a(g));
(g) Removal, prohibition, and civil monetary penalty proceedings under section 10(k) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1820(k)) for violations of the post-employment restrictions imposed by that section; and
(h) This subpart also applies to all other adjudications required by statute to be determined on the record after opportunity for an agency hearing, unless otherwise specifically provided for in the Local Rules (see § 263.3(i)).
§ 263.2
Rules of construction.
For purposes of this subpart:
(a) Any term in the singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular, if such use would be appropriate;
(b) The term
counsel
includes a non-attorney representative; and
(c) Unless the context requires otherwise, a party's counsel of record, if any, may, on behalf of that party, take any action required to be taken by the party.
§ 263.3
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart, unless explicitly stated to the contrary:
(a)
Administrative law judge
(ALJ) means one who presides at an administrative hearing under authority set forth at 5 U.S.C. 556.
(b)
Adjudicatory proceeding
means a proceeding conducted pursuant to these rules and leading to the formulation of a final order other than a regulation.
(c)
Decisional employee
means any member of the Board's or ALJ's staff who has not engaged in an investigative or prosecutorial role in a proceeding and who may assist the Agency or the ALJ, respectively, in preparing orders, recommended decisions, decisions, and other documents under the Uniform Rules.
(d)
Electronic signature
means electronically affixing the equivalent of a signature to an electronic document filed or transmitted electronically.
(e)
Enforcement Counsel
means any individual who files a notice of appearance as counsel on behalf of the Board in an adjudicatory proceeding.
(f)
Final order
means an order issued by the Board with or without the consent of the affected institution or the institution-affiliated party, that has become final, without regard to the pendency of any petition for reconsideration or review.
(g)
Institution
includes:
(1) Any bank as that term is defined in section 3(a) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1813(a));
(2) Any bank holding company or any subsidiary (other than a bank) of a
bank holding company as those terms are defined in the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1841
et seq.
);
(3) Any organization organized and operated under section 25A of the FRA (12 U.S.C. 611
et seq.
) or operating under section 25 of the FRA (12 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
);
(4) Any foreign bank or company to which section 8 of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3106), applies or any subsidiary (other than a bank) thereof;
(5) Any branch or agency as those terms are defined in section 1(b) of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3101(1), (3), (5), (6));
(6) Any savings and loan holding company or any subsidiary (other than a depository institution) of a savings and loan holding company as those terms are defined in the HOLA (12 U.S.C. 1461
et seq.
);
(7) Any U.S. or foreign nonbank financial company that the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”) requires the Board to supervise under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5323(a)(1), (b)(1)), or any subsidiary (other than a bank) thereof;
(8) Any financial market utility or financial institution conducting payment, clearing, or settlement activities that FSOC designates as systematically important under section 804 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5463); and
(9) Any other entity subject to the supervision of the Board.
(h)
Institution-affiliated party
means any institution-affiliated party as that term is defined in section 3(u) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1813(u)).
(i)
Local Rules
means those rules promulgated by the Board in this part other than this subpart.
(j)
OFIA
means the Office of Financial Institution Adjudication, the executive body charged with overseeing the administration of administrative enforcement proceedings for the Board, the Office of Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), and the National Credit Union Administration (“NCUA”).
(k)
Party
means the Board and any person named as a party in any notice.
(l)
Person
means an individual, sole proprietor, partnership, corporation, unincorporated association, trust, joint venture, pool, syndicate, agency, or other entity or organization, including an institution as defined in paragraph (g) of this section.
(m)
Respondent
means any party other than the Board.
(n)
Uniform Rules
means those rules in this subpart A that are common to the Board, the OCC, the FDIC, and the NCUA.
(o)
Violation
means any violation as that term is defined in section 3(v) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1813(v)).
§ 263.4
Authority of the Board.
The Board may, at any time during the pendency of a proceeding, perform, direct the performance of, or waive performance of, any act which could be done or ordered by the ALJ.
§ 263.5
Authority of the administrative law judge (“ALJ”).
(a)
General rule.
All proceedings governed by this part must be conducted in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. chapter 5. The ALJ has all powers necessary to conduct a proceeding in a fair and impartial manner and to avoid unnecessary delay.
(b)
Powers.
The ALJ has all powers necessary to conduct the proceeding in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, including the following powers:
(1) To administer oaths and affirmations;
(2) To issue subpoenas, subpoenas
duces tecum,
protective orders, and other orders, as authorized by this part, and to quash or modify any such subpoenas and orders;
(3) To receive relevant evidence and to rule upon the admission of evidence and offers of proof;
(4) To take or cause depositions to be taken as authorized by this subpart;
(5) To regulate the course of the hearing and the conduct of the parties and their counsel;
(6) To hold scheduling and/or pre-hearing conferences as set forth in § 263.31;
(7) To consider and rule upon all procedural and other motions appropriate in an adjudicatory proceeding, provided that only the Board has the power to grant any motion to dismiss the proceeding or to decide any other
motion that results in a final determination of the merits of the proceeding;
(8) To prepare and present to the Board a recommended decision as provided in this section;
(9) To recuse oneself by motion made by a party or on the ALJ's own motion;
(10) To establish time, place and manner limitations on the attendance of the public and the media for any public hearing; and
(11) To do all other things necessary and appropriate to discharge the duties of an ALJ.
§ 263.6
Appearance and practice in adjudicatory proceedings.
(a)
Appearance before the Board or an ALJ
—(1)
By attorneys.
Any member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any state, commonwealth, possession, territory of the United States, or the District of Columbia may represent others before the Board if such attorney is not currently suspended or debarred from practice before the Board.
(2)
By non-attorneys.
An individual may appear on the individual's own behalf.
(3)
Notice of appearance.
(i) Any individual acting on the individual's own behalf or as counsel on behalf of a party, including the Board, must file a notice of appearance with OFIA at or before the time that the individual submits papers or otherwise appears on behalf of a party in the adjudicatory proceeding. The notice of appearance must include:
(A) A written declaration that the individual is currently qualified as provided in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section and is authorized to represent the particular party; and
(B) A written acknowledgement that the individual has reviewed and will comply with the Uniform Rules and Local Rules in subpart B of this part.
(ii) By filing a notice of appearance on behalf of a party in an adjudicatory proceeding, the counsel agrees and represents that the counsel is authorized to accept service on behalf of the represented party and that, in the event of withdrawal from representation, the counsel will, if required by the ALJ, continue to accept service until new counsel has filed a notice of appearance or until the represented party indicates that the party will proceed on a
pro se
basis.
(b)
Sanctions.
Dilatory, obstructionist, egregious, contemptuous, or contumacious conduct at any phase of any adjudicatory proceeding may be grounds for exclusion or suspension of counsel from the proceeding.
§ 263.7
Good faith certification.
(a)
General requirement.
Every filing or submission of record following the issuance of a notice must be signed by at least one counsel of record in the counsel's individual name and must state that counsel's mailing address, electronic mail address, and telephone number. A party who acts as the party's own counsel must sign that person's individual name and state that person's mailing address, electronic mail address, and telephone number on every filing or submission of record. Electronic signatures may be used to satisfy the signature requirements of this section.
(b)
Effect of signature.
(1) The signature of counsel or a party will constitute a certification: the counsel or party has read the filing or submission of record; to the best of the counsel's or party's knowledge, information, and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the filing or submission of record is well-grounded in fact and is warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law; and the filing or submission of record is not made for any improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation.
(2) If a filing or submission of record is not signed, the ALJ will strike the filing or submission of record, unless it is signed promptly after the omission is called to the attention of the pleader or movant.
(c)
Effect of making oral motion or argument.
The act of making any oral motion or oral argument by any counsel or party constitutes a certification that to the best of the counsel's or party's knowledge, information, and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the counsel's or party's statements are
well-grounded in fact and are warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law, and are not made for any improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation.
§ 263.8
Conflicts of interest.
(a)
Conflict of interest in representation.
No person may appear as counsel for another person in an adjudicatory proceeding if it reasonably appears that such representation may be materially limited by that counsel's responsibilities to a third person or by the counsel's own interests. The ALJ may take corrective measures at any stage of a proceeding to cure a conflict of interest in representation, including the issuance of an order limiting the scope of representation or disqualifying an individual from appearing in a representative capacity for the duration of the proceeding.
(b)
Certification and waiver.
If any person appearing as counsel represents two or more parties to an adjudicatory proceeding or also represents a non-party on a matter relevant to an issue in the proceeding, counsel must certify in writing at the time of filing the notice of appearance required by § 263.6(a):
(1) That the counsel has personally and fully discussed the possibility of conflicts of interest with each such party and non-party; and
(2) That each such party and non-party waives any right it might otherwise have had to assert any known conflicts of interest or to assert any non-material conflicts of interest during the course of the proceeding.
§ 263.9
Ex parte communications.
(a)
Definition
—(1)
Ex parte communication. Ex parte communication
means any material oral or written communication relevant to the merits of an adjudicatory proceeding that was neither on the record nor on reasonable prior notice to all parties that takes place between:
(i) An interested person outside the Board (including such person's counsel); and
(ii) The ALJ handling that proceeding, a member of the Board, or a decisional employee.
(2)
Exception.
A request for status of the proceeding does not constitute an
ex parte
communication.
(b)
Prohibition of ex parte communications.
From the time the notice is issued by the Board until the date that the Board issues a final decision pursuant to § 263.40(c):
(1) An interested person outside the Federal Reserve System must not make or knowingly cause to be made an
ex parte
communication to a member of the Board, the ALJ, or a decisional employee; and
(2) A member of the Board, ALJ, or decisional employee may not make or knowingly cause to be made to any interested person outside the Federal Reserve System any
ex parte
communication.
(c)
Procedure upon occurrence of ex parte communication.
If an
ex parte
communication is received by the ALJ, a member of the Board, or any other person identified in paragraph (a) of this section, that person will cause all such written communications (or, if the communication is oral, a memorandum stating the substance of the communication) to be placed on the record of the proceeding and served on all parties. All other parties to the proceeding may, within ten days of service of the
ex parte
communication, file responses thereto and to recommend any sanctions that they believe to be appropriate under the circumstances. The ALJ or the Board then determines whether any action should be taken concerning the
ex parte
communication in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(d)
Sanctions.
Any party or counsel to a party who makes a prohibited
ex parte
communication, or who encourages or solicits another to make any such communication, may be subject to any appropriate sanction or sanctions imposed by the Board or the ALJ including, but not limited to, exclusion from the proceedings and an adverse ruling on the issue which is the subject of the prohibited communication.
(e)
Separation of functions
—(1)
In general.
Except to the extent required for
the disposition of
ex parte
matters as authorized by law, the ALJ may not:
(i) Consult a person or party on a fact in issue unless on notice and opportunity for all parties to participate; or
(ii) Be responsible to or subject to the supervision or direction of an employee or agent engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions for the Board.
(2)
Decision process.
An employee or agent engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions for the Board in a case may not, in that or a factually related case, participate or advise in the decision, recommended decision, or agency review of the recommended decision under § 263.40, except as witness or counsel in administrative or judicial proceedings.
§ 263.10
Filing of papers.
(a)
Filing.
Any papers required to be filed, excluding documents produced in response to a discovery request pursuant to §§ 263.25 and 263.26, must be filed with OFIA, except as otherwise provided.
(b)
Manner of filing.
Unless otherwise specified by the Board or the ALJ, filing may be accomplished by:
(1) Electronic mail or other electronic means designated by the Board or the ALJ;
(2) Personal service;
(3) Delivering the papers to a same day courier service or overnight delivery service; or
(4) Mailing the papers by first class, registered, or certified mail.
(c)
Formal requirements as to papers filed
—(1)
Form.
All papers filed must set forth the name, mailing address, electronic mail address, and telephone number of the counsel or party making the filing and must be accompanied by a certification setting forth when and how service has been made on all other parties. All papers filed must be double-spaced and printed or typewritten on an 8 1/2×11 inch page and must be clear and legible.
(2)
Signature.
All papers must be dated and signed as provided in § 263.7.
(3)
Caption.
All papers filed must include at the head thereof, or on a title page, the name of the Board and of the filing party, the title and docket number of the proceeding, and the subject of the particular paper.
§ 263.11
Service of papers.
(a)
By the parties.
Except as otherwise provided, a party filing papers must serve a copy upon the counsel of record for all other parties to the proceeding so represented, and upon any party not so represented.
(b)
Method of service.
Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) and (d) of this section, a serving party must use one of the following methods of service:
(1) Electronic mail or other electronic means;
(2) Personal service;
(3) Delivering the papers by same day courier service or overnight delivery service; or
(4) Mailing the papers by first class, registered, or certified mail.
(c)
By the Board or the ALJ.
(1) All papers required to be served by the Board or the ALJ upon a party who has appeared in the proceeding in accordance with § 263.6 will be served by electronic mail or other electronic means designated by the Board or ALJ.
(2) If a respondent has not appeared in the proceeding in accordance with § 263.6, the Board or the ALJ will serve the respondent by any of the following methods:
(i) By personal service;
(ii) If the person to be served is an individual, by delivery to a person of suitable age and discretion at the physical location where the individual resides or works;
(iii) If the person to be served is a corporation or other association, by delivery to an officer, managing or general agent, or to any other agent authorized by appointment or by law to receive service and, if the agent is one authorized by statute to receive service and the statute so requires, by also mailing a copy to the respondent;
(iv) By registered or certified mail, delivery by a same day courier service, or by an overnight delivery service to the respondent's last known mailing address; or
(v) By any other method reasonably calculated to give actual notice.
(d)
Subpoenas.
Service of a subpoena may be made:
(1) By personal service;
(2) If the person to be served is an individual, by delivery to a person of suitable age and discretion at the physical location where the individual resides or works;
(3) If the person to be served is a corporation or other association, by delivery to an officer, managing or general agent, or to any other agent authorized by appointment or by law to receive service and, if the agent is one authorized by statute to receive service and the statute so requires, by also mailing a copy to the party;
(4) By registered or certified mail, delivery by a same day courier service, or by an overnight delivery service to the person's last known mailing address; or
(5) By any other method reasonably calculated to give actual notice.
(e)
Area of service.
Service in any state, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, on any person or company doing business in any state, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, or on any person as otherwise provided by law, is effective without regard to the place where the hearing is held, provided that if service is made on a foreign bank in connection with an action or proceeding involving one or more of its branches or agencies located in any state, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, service must be made on at least one branch or agency so involved.
§ 263.12
Construction of time limits.
(a)
General rule.
In computing any period of time prescribed by this subpart, the date of the act or event that commences the designated period of time is not included. The last day so computed is included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday. When the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the period runs until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday. Intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays are included in the computation of time. However, when the time period within which an act is to be performed is ten days or less, not including any additional time allowed for in paragraph (c) of this section, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays are not included.
(b)
When papers are deemed to be filed or served.
(1) Filing and service are deemed to be effective:
(i) In the case of transmission by electronic mail or other electronic means, upon transmittal by the serving party;
(ii) In the case of overnight delivery service or first class, registered, or certified mail, upon deposit in or delivery to an appropriate point of collection; or
(iii) In the case of personal service or same day courier delivery, upon actual service.
(2) The effective filing and service dates specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be modified by the Board or ALJ in the case of filing or by agreement of the parties in the case of service.
(c)
Calculation of time for service and filing of responsive papers.
Whenever a time limit is measured by a prescribed period from the service of any notice or paper, the applicable time limits are calculated as follows:
(1) If service is made by electronic mail or other electronic means or by same day courier delivery, add one calendar day to the prescribed period;
(2) If service is made by overnight delivery service, add two calendar days to the prescribed period; or
(3) If service is made by first class, registered, or certified mail, add three calendar days to the prescribed period.
§ 263.13
Change of time limits.
Except as otherwise provided by law, the ALJ may, for good cause shown, extend the time limits prescribed by the Uniform Rules or by any notice or order issued in the proceedings. After the referral of the case to the Board pursuant to § 263.38, the Board may grant extensions of the time limits for good cause shown. Extensions may be granted at the motion of a party after notice and opportunity to respond is afforded all non-moving parties or on the Board's or the ALJ's own motion.
§ 263.14
Witness fees and expenses.
(a)
In general.
A witness, including an expert witness, who testifies at a deposition or hearing will be paid the same
fees for attendance and mileage as are paid in the United States district courts in proceedings in which the United States is a party, except as provided in paragraph (b) and unless otherwise waived.
(b)
Exception for testimony by a party.
In the case of testimony by a party, no witness fees or mileage need to be paid. The Board will not be required to pay any fees to, or expenses of, any witness not subpoenaed by the Board.
(c)
Timing of payment.
Fees and mileage in accordance with this paragraph (c)must be paid in advance by the party requesting the subpoena, except that fees and mileage need not be tendered in advance where the Board is the party requesting the subpoena.
§ 263.15
Opportunity for informal settlement.
Any respondent may, at any time in the proceeding, unilaterally submit to Enforcement Counsel written offers or proposals for settlement of a proceeding, without prejudice to the rights of any of the parties. Any such offer or proposal may only be made to Enforcement Counsel. Submission of a written settlement offer does not provide a basis for adjourning or otherwise delaying all or any portion of a proceeding under this part. No settlement offer or proposal, or any subsequent negotiation or resolution, is admissible as evidence in any proceeding.
§ 263.16
The Board's right to conduct examination.
Nothing contained in this subpart limits in any manner the right of the Board to conduct any examination, inspection, or visitation of any institution or institution-affiliated party, or the right of the Board to conduct or continue any form of investigation authorized by law.
§ 263.17
Collateral attacks on adjudicatory proceeding.
If an interlocutory appeal or collateral attack is brought in any court concerning all or any part of an adjudicatory proceeding, the challenged adjudicatory proceeding will continue without regard to the pendency of that court proceeding. No default or other failure to act as directed in the adjudicatory proceeding within the times prescribed in this subpart will be excused based on the pendency before any court of any interlocutory appeal or collateral attack.
§ 263.18
Commencement of proceeding and contents of notice.
(a)
Commencement of proceeding.
(1)(i) Except for change-in-control proceedings under section 7(j)(4) of the FDIA, 12 U.S.C. 1817(j)(4), a proceeding governed by this subpart is commenced by issuance of a notice by the Board.
(ii) The notice must be served by Enforcement Counsel upon the respondent and given to any other appropriate financial institution supervisory authority where required by law. Enforcement Counsel may serve the notice upon counsel for the respondent, provided that Enforcement Counsel has confirmed that counsel represents the respondent in the matter and will accept service of the notice on behalf of the respondent.
(iii) Enforcement Counsel must file the notice with OFIA.
(2) Change-in control proceedings under section 7(j)(4) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1817(j)(4)) commence with the issuance of an order by the Board.
(b)
Contents of notice.
Notice pleading applies. The notice must provide:
(1) The legal authority for the proceeding and for the Board's jurisdiction over the proceeding;
(2) Matters of fact or law showing that the Board is entitled to relief;
(3) A proposed order or prayer for an order granting the requested relief;
(4) The time, place, and nature of the hearing as required by law or regulation;
(5) The time within which to file an answer as required by law or regulation;
(6) The time within which to request a hearing as required by law or regulation; and
(7) That the answer and/or request for a hearing must be filed with OFIA.
§ 263.19
Answer.
(a)
When.
Within 20 days of service of the notice, respondent must file an answer as designated in the notice. In a civil money penalty proceeding, respondent must also file a request for a
hearing within 20 days of service of the notice.
(b)
Content of answer.
An answer must specifically respond to each paragraph or allegation of fact contained in the notice and must admit, deny, or state that the respondent lacks sufficient information to admit or deny each allegation of fact. A statement of lack of information has the effect of a denial. Denials must fairly meet the substance of each allegation of fact denied; general denials are not permitted. When a respondent denies part of an allegation, that part must be denied and the remainder specifically admitted. Any allegation of fact in the notice which is not denied in the answer is deemed admitted for purposes of the proceeding. A respondent is not required to respond to the portion of a notice that constitutes the prayer for relief, or proposed order. The answer must set forth affirmative defenses, if any, asserted by the respondent.
(c)
Default
—(1)
Effect of failure to answer.
Failure of a respondent to file an answer required by this section within the time provided constitutes a waiver of the respondent's right to appear and contest the allegations in the notice. If no timely answer is filed, Enforcement Counsel may file a motion for entry of an order of default. Upon a finding that no good cause has been shown for the failure to file a timely answer, the ALJ will file with the Board a recommended decision containing the findings and the relief sought in the notice. Any final order issued by the Board based upon a respondent's failure to answer is deemed to be an order issued upon consent.
(2)
Effect of failure to request a hearing in civil money penalty proceedings.
If respondent fails to request a hearing as required by law within the time provided, the notice of assessment constitutes a final and unappealable order of the Board without further action by the ALJ.
§ 263.20
Amended pleadings.
(a)
Amendments.
The notice or answer may be amended or supplemented at any stage of the proceeding. The respondent must answer an amended notice within the time remaining for the respondent's answer to the original notice, or within ten days after service of the amended notice, whichever period is longer, unless the Board or ALJ orders otherwise for good cause.
(b)
Amendments to conform to the evidence.
When issues not raised in the notice or answer are tried at the hearing by express or implied consent of the parties, they will be treated in all respects as if they had been raised in the notice or answer, and no formal amendments are required. If evidence is objected to at the hearing on the ground that it is not within the issues raised by the notice or answer, the ALJ may admit the evidence when admission is likely to assist in adjudicating the merits of the action and the objecting party fails to satisfy the ALJ that the admission of such evidence would unfairly prejudice that party's action or defense upon the merits. The ALJ may grant a continuance to enable the objecting party to meet such evidence.
§ 263.21
Failure to appear.
Failure of a respondent to appear in person at the hearing or by a duly authorized counsel constitutes a waiver of respondent's right to a hearing and is deemed an admission of the facts as alleged and consent to the relief sought in the notice. Without further proceedings or notice to the respondent, the ALJ will file with the Board a recommended decision containing the findings and the relief sought in the notice.
§ 263.22
Consolidation and severance of actions.
(a)
Consolidation.
(1) On the motion of any party, or on the ALJ's own motion, the ALJ may consolidate, for some or all purposes, any two or more proceedings, if each such proceeding involves or arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences, or involves at least one common respondent or a material common question of law or fact, unless such consolidation would cause unreasonable delay or injustice.
(2) In the event of consolidation under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, appropriate adjustment to the prehearing schedule must be made to avoid unnecessary expense, inconvenience, or delay.
(b)
Severance.
The ALJ may, upon the motion of any party, sever the proceeding for separate resolution of the matter as to any respondent only if the ALJ finds:
(1) Undue prejudice or injustice to the moving party would result from not severing the proceeding; and
(2) Such undue prejudice or injustice would outweigh the interests of judicial economy and expedition in the complete and final resolution of the proceeding.
§ 263.23
Motions.
(a)
In writing.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, an application or request for an order or ruling must be made by written motion.
(2) All written motions must state with particularity the relief sought and must be accompanied by a proposed order.
(3) No oral argument may be held on written motions except as otherwise directed by the ALJ. Written memoranda, briefs, affidavits, or other relevant material or documents may be filed in support of or in opposition to a motion.
(b)
Oral motions.
A motion may be made orally on the record unless the ALJ directs that such motion be reduced to writing.
(c)
Filing of motions.
Motions must be filed with the ALJ, except that following the filing of the recommended decision, motions must be filed with the Board.
(d)
Responses.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, within ten days after service of any written motion, or within such other period of time as may be established by the ALJ or the Board, any party may file a written response to a motion. The ALJ will not rule on any oral or written motion before each party has had an opportunity to file a response.
(2) The failure of a party to oppose a written motion or an oral motion made on the record is deemed a consent by that party to the entry of an order substantially in the form of the order accompanying the motion.
(e)
Dilatory motions.
Frivolous, dilatory or repetitive motions are prohibited. The filing of such motions may form the basis for sanctions.
(f)
Dispositive motions.
Dispositive motions are governed by §§ 263.29 and 263.30.
§ 263.24
Scope of document discovery.
(a)
Limits on discovery.
(1) Subject to the limitations set out in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, a party to a proceeding under this subpart may obtain document discovery by serving a written request to produce documents. For purposes of a request to produce documents, the term
documents
includes writings, drawings, graphs, charts, photographs, recordings, electronically stored information, and other data or data compilations stored in any medium from which information can be obtained either directly or, if necessary, after translation by the responding party, into a reasonably usable form.
(2) Discovery by use of deposition is governed by § 263.53.
(3) Discovery by use of either interrogatories or requests for admission is not permitted.
(4) Any request to produce documents that calls for irrelevant material; or that is unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, unduly burdensome, or repetitive of previous requests, or that seeks to obtain privileged documents will be denied or modified. A request is unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, or unduly burdensome if, among other things, it fails to include justifiable limitations on the time period covered and the geographic locations to be searched, or the time provided to respond in the request is inadequate.
(b)
Relevance.
A party may obtain document discovery regarding any non-privileged matter that has material relevance to the merits of the pending action.
(c)
Privileged matter.
Privileged documents are not discoverable. Privileges include the attorney-client privilege, attorney work-product doctrine, bank examination privilege, law enforcement privilege, any government's or government agency's deliberative process privilege, and any other privileges the Constitution, any applicable act of Congress, or the principles of common law provide.
(d)
Time limits.
All document discovery, including all responses to discovery requests, must be completed by the date set by the ALJ and no later than 30 days prior to the date scheduled for the commencement of the hearing, except as provided in the Local Rules. No exceptions to this time limit are permitted, unless the ALJ finds on the record that good cause exists for waiving the requirements of this paragraph (d).
§ 263.25
Request for document discovery from parties.
(a)
Document requests.
(1) Any party may serve on any other party a request to produce and permit the requesting party or its representative to inspect or copy any discoverable documents that are in the possession, custody, or control of the party upon whom the request is served. In the case of a request for inspection, the responding party may produce copies of documents or of electronically stored information instead of permitting inspection.
(2) The request:
(i) Must describe with reasonable particularity each item or category of items to be inspected or produced; and
(ii) Must specify a reasonable time, place, and manner for the inspection or production.
(b)
Production or copying
—(1)
General.
Unless otherwise specified by the ALJ or agreed upon by the parties, the producing party must produce copies of documents as they are kept in the usual course of business or organized to correspond to the categories of the request, and electronically stored information must be produced in a form in which it is ordinarily maintained or in a reasonably usable form.
(2)
Costs.
The producing party must pay its own costs to respond to a discovery request, unless otherwise agreed by the parties.
(c)
Obligation to update responses.
A party who has responded to a discovery request with a response that was complete when made is not required to supplement the response to include documents thereafter acquired, unless the responding party learns:
(1) The response was materially incorrect when made; or
(2) The response, though correct when made, is no longer true and a failure to amend the response is, in substance, a knowing concealment.
(d)
Motions to limit discovery.
(1) Any party that objects to a discovery request may, within 20 days of being served with such request, file a motion in accordance with the provisions of § 263.23 to strike or otherwise limit the request. If an objection is made to only a portion of an item or category in a request, the portion objected to must be specified. Any objections not made in accordance with this paragraph and § 263.23 are waived.
(2) The party who served the request that is the subject of a motion to strike or limit may file a written response within ten days of service of the motion. No other party may file a response.
(e)
Privilege.
At the time other documents are produced, the producing party must reasonably identify all documents withheld on the grounds of privilege and must produce a statement of the basis for the assertion of privilege. When similar documents that are protected by attorney-client privilege, attorney work-product doctrine, bank examination privilege, law enforcement privilege, any government's or government agency's deliberative process privilege, or any other privileges of the Constitution, any applicable act of Congress, or the principles of common law, or are voluminous, these documents may be identified by category instead of by individual document. The ALJ retains discretion to determine when the identification by category is insufficient.
(f)
Motions to compel production.
(1) If a party withholds any documents as privileged or fails to comply fully with a discovery request, the requesting party may, within ten days of the assertion of privilege or of the time the failure to comply becomes known to the requesting party, file a motion in accordance with the provisions of § 263.23 for the issuance of a subpoena compelling production.
(2) The party who asserted the privilege or failed to comply with the document request may file a written response to a motion to compel within
ten days of service of the motion. No other party may file a response.
(g)
Ruling on motions.
After the time for filing responses pursuant to this section has expired, the ALJ will rule promptly on all motions filed pursuant to this section. If the ALJ determines that a discovery request, or any of its terms, calls for irrelevant material, is unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, unduly burdensome, or repetitive of previous requests, or seeks to obtain privileged documents, the ALJ may deny or modify the request, and may issue appropriate protective orders, upon such conditions as justice may require. The pendency of a motion to strike or limit discovery or to compel production is not a basis for staying or continuing the proceeding, unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ. Notwithstanding any other provision in this part, the ALJ may not release, or order a party to produce, documents withheld on grounds of privilege if the party has stated to the ALJ its intention to file a timely motion for interlocutory review of the ALJ's order to produce the documents, and until the motion for interlocutory review has been decided.
(h)
Enforcing discovery subpoenas.
If the ALJ issues a subpoena compelling production of documents by a party, the subpoenaing party may, in the event of noncompliance and to the extent authorized by applicable law, apply to any appropriate United States district court for an order requiring compliance with the subpoena. A party's right to seek court enforcement of a subpoena will not in any manner limit the sanctions that may be imposed by the ALJ against a party who fails to produce subpoenaed documents.
§ 263.26
Document subpoenas to nonparties.
(a)
General rules.
(1) Any party may apply to the ALJ for the issuance of a document discovery subpoena addressed to any person who is not a party to the proceeding. The application must contain a proposed document subpoena and a brief statement showing the general relevance and reasonableness of the scope of documents sought. The subpoenaing party must specify a reasonable time, place, and manner for making production in response to the document subpoena.
(2) A party may apply for a document subpoena under this section only within the time period during which such party could serve a discovery request under § 263.24(d). The party obtaining the document subpoena is responsible for serving it on the subpoenaed person and for serving copies on all parties. Document subpoenas may be served in any state, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, or as otherwise provided by law.
(3) The ALJ will promptly issue any document subpoena requested pursuant to this section. If the ALJ determines that the application does not set forth a valid basis for the issuance of the subpoena, or that any of its terms are unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, or unduly burdensome, the ALJ may refuse to issue the subpoena or may issue it in a modified form upon such conditions as may be consistent with the Uniform Rules.
(b)
Motion to quash or modify.
(1) Any person to whom a document subpoena is directed may file a motion to quash or modify such subpoena with the ALJ. The motion must be accompanied by a statement of the basis for quashing or modifying the subpoena. The movant must serve the motion on all parties, and any party may respond to such motion within ten days of service of the motion.
(2) Any motion to quash or modify a document subpoena must be filed on the same basis, including the assertion of privilege, upon which a party could object to a discovery request under § 263.25(d), and during the same time limits during which such an objection could be filed.
(c)
Enforcing document subpoenas.
If a subpoenaed person fails to comply with any subpoena issued pursuant to this section or any order of the ALJ, which directs compliance with all or any portion of a document subpoena, the subpoenaing party or any other aggrieved party may, to the extent authorized by applicable law, apply to an appropriate United States district court for an order requiring compliance with so much of the document subpoena as the ALJ has not quashed or modified. A
party's right to seek court enforcement of a document subpoena will in no way limit the sanctions that may be imposed by the ALJ on a party who induces a failure to comply with subpoenas issued under this section.
§ 263.27
Deposition of witness unavailable for hearing.
(a)
General rules.
(1) If a witness will not be available for the hearing, a party desiring to preserve that witness' testimony for the record may apply in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, to the ALJ for the issuance of a subpoena, including a subpoena
duces tecum,
requiring the attendance of the witness at a deposition. The ALJ may issue a deposition subpoena under this section upon showing:
(i) The witness will be unable to attend or may be prevented from attending the hearing because of age, sickness or infirmity, or will otherwise be unavailable;
(ii) The witness' unavailability was not procured or caused by the subpoenaing party;
(iii) The testimony is reasonably expected to be material; and
(iv) Taking the deposition will not result in any undue burden to any other party and will not cause undue delay of the proceeding.
(2) The application must contain a proposed deposition subpoena and a brief statement of the reasons for the issuance of the subpoena. The subpoena must name the witness whose deposition is to be taken and specify the time, manner, and place for taking the deposition. A deposition subpoena may require the witness to be deposed at any place within the country in which that witness resides or has a regular place of employment, by remote means, or such other convenient place or manner, as the ALJ fixes.
(3) Any requested subpoena that sets forth a valid basis for its issuance must be promptly issued, unless the ALJ requires a written response or requires attendance at a conference concerning whether the requested subpoena should be issued.
(4) The party obtaining a deposition subpoena is responsible for serving it on the witness and for serving copies on all parties. Unless the ALJ orders otherwise, no deposition under this section may be taken on fewer than ten days' notice to the witness and all parties.
(b)
Objections to deposition subpoenas.
(1) The witness and any party who has not had an opportunity to oppose a deposition subpoena issued under this section may file a motion with the ALJ to quash or modify the subpoena prior to the time for compliance specified in the subpoena, but not more than ten days after service of the subpoena.
(2) A statement of the basis for the motion to quash or modify a subpoena issued under this section must accompany the motion. The motion must be served on all parties.
(c)
Procedure upon deposition.
(1) Each witness testifying pursuant to a deposition subpoena must be duly sworn. By stipulation of the parties or by order of the ALJ, a court reporter or other person authorized to administer an oath may administer the oath remotely without being in the physical presence of the deponent. Each party must have the right to examine the witness. Objections to questions or documents must be in short form, stating the grounds for the objection. Failure to object to questions or documents is not deemed a waiver except where the ground for the objection might have been avoided if the objection had been timely presented. All questions, answers, and objections must be recorded.
(2) Any party may move before the ALJ for an order compelling the witness to answer any questions the witness has refused to answer or submit any evidence the witness has refused to submit during the deposition.
(3) The deposition must be subscribed by the witness, unless the parties and the witness, by stipulation, have waived the signing, or the witness is ill, cannot be found, or has refused to sign. If the deposition is not subscribed by the witness, the court reporter taking the deposition must certify that the transcript is a true and complete transcript of the deposition.
(d)
Enforcing subpoenas.
If a subpoenaed person fails to comply with any subpoena issued pursuant to this section, or fails to comply with any order of the ALJ, which directs compliance
with all or any portion of a deposition subpoena under paragraph (b) or (c)(2) of this section, the subpoenaing party or other aggrieved party may, to the extent authorized by applicable law, apply to an appropriate United States district court for an order requiring compliance with the portions of the subpoena with which the subpoenaed party has not complied. A party's right to seek court enforcement of a deposition subpoena in no way limits the sanctions that may be imposed by the ALJ on a party who fails to comply with, or procures a failure to comply with, a subpoena issued under this section.
§ 263.28
Interlocutory review.
(a)
General rule.
The Board may review a ruling of the ALJ prior to the certification of the record to the Board only in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section and § 263.23.
(b)
Scope of review.
The Board may exercise interlocutory review of a ruling of the ALJ if the Board finds:
(1) The ruling involves a controlling question of law or policy as to which substantial grounds exist for a difference of opinion;
(2) Immediate review of the ruling may materially advance the ultimate termination of the proceeding;
(3) Subsequent modification of the ruling at the conclusion of the proceeding would be an inadequate remedy; or
(4) Subsequent modification of the ruling would cause unusual delay or expense.
(c)
Procedure.
Any request for interlocutory review must be filed by a party with the ALJ within ten days of the ruling and must otherwise comply with § 263.23. Any party may file a response to a request for interlocutory review in accordance with § 263.23(d). Upon the expiration of the time for filing all responses, the ALJ will refer the matter to the Board for final disposition.
(d)
Suspension of proceeding.
Neither a request for interlocutory review nor any disposition of such a request by the Board under this section suspends or stays the proceeding unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ or the Board.
§ 263.29
Summary disposition.
(a)
In general.
The ALJ will recommend that the Board issue a final order granting a motion for summary disposition if the undisputed pleaded facts, admissions, affidavits, stipulations, documentary evidence, matters as to which official notice may be taken, and any other evidentiary materials properly submitted in connection with a motion for summary disposition show:
(1) There is no genuine issue as to any material fact; and
(2) The moving party is entitled to a decision in its favor as a matter of law.
(b)
Filing of motions and responses.
(1) Any party who believes there is no genuine issue of material fact to be determined and that the party is entitled to a decision as a matter of law may move at any time for summary disposition in its favor of all or any part of the proceeding. Any party, within 20 days after service of such a motion, or within such time period as allowed by the ALJ, may file a response to such motion.
(2) A motion for summary disposition must be accompanied by a statement of the material facts as to which the moving party contends there is no genuine issue. Such motion must be supported by documentary evidence, which may take the form of admissions in pleadings, stipulations, depositions, investigatory depositions, transcripts, affidavits, and any other evidentiary materials that the moving party contends supports the moving party's position. The motion must also be accompanied by a brief containing the points and authorities in support of the contention of the moving party. Any party opposing a motion for summary disposition must file a statement setting forth those material facts as to which the opposing party contends a genuine dispute exists. Such opposition must be supported by evidence of the same type as that submitted with the motion for summary disposition and a brief containing the points and authorities in support of the contention that summary disposition would be inappropriate.
(c)
Hearing on motion.
At the written request of any party or on the ALJ's
own motion, the ALJ may hear oral argument on the motion for summary disposition.
(d)
Decision on motion.
Following receipt of a motion for summary disposition and all responses thereto, the ALJ will determine whether the moving party is entitled to summary disposition. If the ALJ determines that summary disposition is warranted, the ALJ will submit a recommended decision to that effect to the Board. If the ALJ finds that no party is entitled to summary disposition, the ALJ will make a ruling denying the motion.
§ 263.30
Partial summary disposition.
If the ALJ determines that a party is entitled to summary disposition as to certain claims only, the ALJ will defer submitting a recommended decision as to those claims. A hearing on the remaining issues must be ordered. Those claims for which the ALJ has determined that summary disposition is warranted will be addressed in the recommended decision filed at the conclusion of the hearing.
§ 263.31
Scheduling and prehearing conferences.
(a)
Scheduling conference.
Within 30 days of service of the notice or order commencing a proceeding, the ALJ will direct counsel for all parties to meet with the ALJ at a specified time and manner prior to the hearing for the purpose of scheduling the course and conduct of the proceeding. This meeting is called a “scheduling conference.” The schedule for the identification of potential witnesses, the time for and manner of discovery, and the exchange of any prehearing materials including witness lists, statements of issues, stipulations, exhibits, and any other materials may also be determined at the scheduling conference.
(b)
Prehearing conferences.
The ALJ may, in addition to the scheduling conference, on the ALJ's own motion or at the request of any party, direct counsel for the parties to confer with the ALJ at a prehearing conference to address any or all of the following:
(1) Simplification and clarification of the issues;
(2) Stipulations, admissions of fact, and the contents, authenticity and admissibility into evidence of documents;
(3) Matters of which official notice may be taken;
(4) Limitation of the number of witnesses;
(5) Summary disposition of any or all issues;
(6) Resolution of discovery issues or disputes;
(7) Amendments to pleadings; and
(8) Such other matters as may aid in the orderly disposition of the proceeding.
(c)
Transcript.
The ALJ may require that a scheduling or prehearing conference be recorded by a court reporter. A transcript of the conference and any materials filed, including orders, becomes part of the record of the proceeding. A party may obtain a copy of the transcript at the party's expense.
(d)
Scheduling or prehearing orders.
At or within a reasonable time following the conclusion of the scheduling conference or any prehearing conference, the ALJ will serve on each party an order setting forth any agreements reached and any procedural determinations made.
§ 263.32
Prehearing submissions.
(a)
Party prehearing submissions.
Within the time set by the ALJ, but in no case later than 20 days before the start of the hearing, each party must file with the ALJ and serve on every other party:
(1) A prehearing statement that states:
(i) The party's position with respect to the legal issues presented;
(ii) The statutory and case law upon which the party relies; and
(iii) The facts that the party expects to prove at the hearing;
(2) A final list of witnesses to be called to testify at the hearing, including the name, mailing address, and electronic mail address of each witness and a short summary of the expected testimony of each witness, which need not identify the exhibits to be relied upon by each witness at the hearing;
(3) A list of the exhibits expected to be introduced at the hearing along with a copy of each exhibit; and
(4) Stipulations of fact, if any.
(b)
Effect of failure to comply.
No witness may testify and no exhibits may be introduced at the hearing if such witness or exhibit is not listed in the prehearing submissions pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, except for good cause shown.
§ 263.33
Public hearings.
(a)
General rule.
All hearings must be open to the public, unless the Board, in the Board's discretion, determines that holding an open hearing would be contrary to the public interest. Within 20 days of service of the notice or, in the case of change-in-control proceedings under section 7(j)(4) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1817(j)(4)), within 20 days from service of the hearing order, any respondent may file with the Board a request for a private hearing, and any party may file a reply to such a request. A party must serve on the ALJ a copy of any request or reply the party files with the Board. The form of, and procedure for, these requests and replies are governed by § 263.23. A party's failure to file a request or a reply constitutes a waiver of any objections regarding whether the hearing will be public or private.
(b)
Filing document under seal.
Enforcement Counsel, in Enforcement Counsel's discretion, may file any document or part of a document under seal if disclosure of the document would be contrary to the public interest. The ALJ will take all appropriate steps to preserve the confidentiality of such documents or parts thereof, including closing portions of the hearing to the public.
§ 263.34
Hearing subpoenas.
(a)
Issuance.
(1) Upon application of a party showing general relevance and reasonableness of scope of the testimony or other evidence sought, the ALJ may issue a subpoena or a subpoena
duces tecum
requiring the attendance of a witness at the hearing or the production of documentary or physical evidence at the hearing. The application for a hearing subpoena must also contain a proposed subpoena specifying the attendance of a witness or the production of evidence from any state, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, or as otherwise provided by law at any designated place where the hearing is being conducted. The party making the application must serve a copy of the application and the proposed subpoena on every other party.
(2) A party may apply for a hearing subpoena at any time before the commencement of a hearing. During a hearing, a party may make an application for a subpoena orally on the record before the ALJ.
(3) The ALJ will promptly issue any hearing subpoena requested pursuant to this section. If the ALJ determines that the application does not set forth a valid basis for the issuance of the subpoena, or that any of its terms are unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, or unduly burdensome, the ALJ may refuse to issue the subpoena or may issue it in a modified form upon any conditions consistent with this subpart. Upon issuance by the ALJ, the party making the application must serve the subpoena on the person named in the subpoena and on each party.
(b)
Motion to quash or modify.
(1) Any person to whom a hearing subpoena is directed or any party may file a motion to quash or modify the subpoena, accompanied by a statement of the basis for quashing or modifying the subpoena. The movant must serve the motion on each party and on the person named in the subpoena. Any party may respond to the motion within ten days of service of the motion.
(2) Any motion to quash or modify a hearing subpoena must be filed prior to the time specified in the subpoena for compliance but not more than ten days after the date of service of the subpoena upon the movant.
(c)
Enforcing subpoenas.
If a subpoenaed person fails to comply with any subpoena issued pursuant to this section or any order of the ALJ which directs compliance with all or any portion of a document subpoena, the subpoenaing party or any other aggrieved party may seek enforcement of the subpoena pursuant to § 263.26(c).
§ 263.35
Conduct of hearings.
(a)
General rules.
(1)
Conduct of hearings.
Hearings must be conducted so as
to provide a fair and expeditious presentation of the relevant disputed issues. Each party has the right to present its case or defense by oral and documentary evidence and to conduct such cross examination as may be required for full disclosure of the facts.
(2)
Order of hearing.
Enforcement Counsel will present its case-in-chief first, unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ, or unless otherwise expressly specified by law or regulation. Enforcement Counsel will be the first party to present an opening statement and a closing statement and may make a rebuttal statement after the respondent's closing statement. If there are multiple respondents, respondents may agree among themselves as to their order of presentation of their cases, but if they do not agree, the ALJ will fix the order.
(3)
Examination of witnesses.
Only one counsel for each party may conduct an examination of a witness, except that in the case of extensive direct examination, the ALJ may permit more than one counsel for the party presenting the witness to conduct the examination. A party may have one counsel conduct the direct examination and another counsel conduct re-direct examination of a witness, or may have one counsel conduct the cross examination of a witness and another counsel conduct the re-cross examination of a witness.
(4)
Stipulations.
Unless the ALJ directs otherwise, all stipulations of fact and law previously agreed upon by the parties, and all documents, the admissibility of which have been previously stipulated, will be admitted into evidence upon commencement of the hearing.
(b)
Transcript.
The hearing must be recorded and transcribed. The reporter will make the transcript available to any party upon payment by that party to the reporter of the cost of the transcript. The ALJ may order the record corrected, either upon motion to correct, upon stipulation of the parties, or following notice to the parties upon the ALJ's own motion.
(c)
Electronic presentation.
Based on the circumstances of each hearing, the ALJ may direct the use of, or any party may use, an electronic presentation during the hearing. If the ALJ requires an electronic presentation during the hearing, each party will be responsible for their own presentation and related costs, unless the parties agree to another manner in which to allocate presentation responsibilities and costs.
§ 263.36
Evidence.
(a)
Admissibility.
(1) Except as is otherwise set forth in this section, relevant, material, and reliable evidence that is not unduly repetitive is admissible to the fullest extent authorized by the Administrative Procedure Act and other applicable law.
(2) Evidence that would be admissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence is admissible in a proceeding conducted pursuant to this subpart.
(3) Evidence that would be inadmissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence may not be deemed or ruled to be inadmissible in a proceeding conducted pursuant to this subpart if such evidence is relevant, material, reliable, and not unduly repetitive.
(b)
Official notice.
(1) Official notice may be taken of any material fact which may be judicially noticed by a United States district court and any material information in the official public records of any Federal or State government agency.
(2) All matters officially noticed by the ALJ or the Board must appear on the record.
(3) If official notice is requested or taken of any material fact, the parties, upon timely request, must be afforded an opportunity to object.
(c)
Documents.
(1) A duplicate copy of a document is admissible to the same extent as the original, unless a genuine issue is raised as to whether the copy is in some material respect not a true and legible copy of the original.
(2) Subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, any document, including a report of examination, supervisory activity, inspection, or visitation, prepared by an appropriate Federal financial institutions regulatory agency or by a State regulatory agency, is admissible either with or without a sponsoring witness.
(3) Witnesses may use existing or newly created charts, exhibits, calendars, calculations, outlines, or other graphic material to summarize, illustrate, or simplify the presentation of testimony. Such materials may, subject to the ALJ's discretion, be used with or without being admitted into evidence.
(d)
Objections.
(1) Objections to the admissibility of evidence must be timely made and rulings on all objections must appear on the record.
(2) When an objection to a question or line of questioning propounded to a witness is sustained, the examining counsel may make a specific proffer on the record of what the examining counsel expected to prove by the expected testimony of the witness either by representation of counsel or by direct questioning of the witness.
(3) The ALJ will retain rejected exhibits, adequately marked for identification, for the record, and transmit such exhibits to the Board.
(4) Failure to object to admission of evidence or to any ruling constitutes a waiver of the objection.
(e)
Stipulations.
The parties may stipulate as to any relevant matters of fact or the authentication of any relevant documents. Such stipulations must be received in evidence at a hearing and are binding on the parties with respect to the matters therein stipulated.
(f)
Depositions of unavailable witnesses.
(1) If a witness is unavailable to testify at a hearing, and that witness has testified in a deposition to which all parties in a proceeding had notice and an opportunity to participate, a party may offer as evidence all or any part of the transcript of the deposition, including deposition exhibits, if any.
(2) Such deposition transcript is admissible to the same extent that testimony would have been admissible had that person testified at the hearing, provided that if a witness refused to answer proper questions during the depositions, the ALJ may, on that basis, limit the admissibility of the deposition in any manner that justice requires.
(3) Only those portions of a deposition received in evidence at the hearing constitute a part of the record.
§ 263.37
Post-hearing filings.
(a)
Proposed findings and conclusions and supporting briefs.
(1) Using the same method of service for each party, the ALJ will serve notice upon each party that the certified transcript, together with all hearing exhibits and exhibits introduced but not admitted into evidence at the hearing, has been filed. Any party may file with the ALJ proposed findings of fact, proposed conclusions of law, and a proposed order within 30 days following service of this notice by the ALJ or within such longer period as may be ordered by the ALJ.
(2) Proposed findings and conclusions must be supported by citation to any relevant authorities and by page references to any relevant portions of the record. A post-hearing brief may be filed in support of proposed findings and conclusions, either as part of the same document or in a separate document. Any party who fails to file timely with the ALJ any proposed finding or conclusion is deemed to have waived the right to raise in any subsequent filing or submission any issue not addressed in such party's proposed finding or conclusion.
(b)
Reply briefs.
Reply briefs may be filed within 15 days after the date on which the parties' proposed findings, conclusions, and order are due. Reply briefs must be strictly limited to responding to new matters, issues, or arguments raised in another party's papers. A party who has not filed proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law or a post-hearing brief may not file a reply brief.
(c)
Simultaneous filing required.
The ALJ will not order the filing by any party of any brief or reply brief in advance of the other party's filing of its brief.
§ 263.38
Recommended decision and filing of record.
(a)
Filing of recommended decision and record.
Within 45 days after expiration of the time allowed for filing reply briefs under § 263.37(b), the ALJ will file with and certify to the Board, for decision, the record of the proceeding. The record must include the ALJ's recommended decision, recommended findings of fact, recommended conclusions of law, and proposed order; all
prehearing and hearing transcripts, exhibits, and rulings; and the motions, briefs, memoranda, and other supporting papers filed in connection with the hearing. The ALJ will serve upon each party the recommended decision, findings, conclusions, and proposed order.
(b)
Filing of index.
At the same time the ALJ files with and certifies to the Board for final determination the record of the proceeding, the ALJ will furnish to the Board a certified index of the entire record of the proceeding. The certified index must include, at a minimum, an entry for each paper, document, or motion filed with the ALJ in the proceeding, the date of the filing, and the identity of the filer. The certified index must also include an exhibit index containing, at a minimum, an entry consisting of exhibit number and title or description for: each exhibit introduced and admitted into evidence at the hearing; each exhibit introduced but not admitted into evidence at the hearing; each exhibit introduced and admitted into evidence after the completion of the hearing; and each exhibit introduced but not admitted into evidence after the completion of the hearing.
§ 263.39
Exceptions to recommended decision.
(a)
Filing exceptions.
Within 30 days after service of the recommended decision, findings, conclusions, and proposed order under § 263.38, a party may file with the Board written exceptions to the ALJ's recommended decision, findings, conclusions, or proposed order, to the admission or exclusion of evidence, or to the failure of the ALJ to make a ruling proposed by a party. A supporting brief may be filed at the time the exceptions are filed, either as part of the same document or in a separate document.
(b)
Effect of failure to file or raise exceptions.
(1) Failure of a party to file exceptions to those matters specified in paragraph (a) of this section within the time prescribed is deemed a waiver of objection thereto.
(2) No exception need be considered by the Board if the party taking exception had an opportunity to raise the same objection, issue, or argument before the ALJ and failed to do so.
(c)
Contents.
(1) All exceptions and briefs in support of such exceptions must be confined to the particular matters in, or omissions from, the ALJ's recommendations to which that party takes exception.
(2) All exceptions and briefs in support of exceptions must set forth page or paragraph references to the specific parts of the ALJ's recommendations to which exception is taken, the page or paragraph references to those portions of the record relied upon to support each exception, and the legal authority relied upon to support each exception.
§ 263.40
Review by the Board.
(a)
Notice of submission to the Board.
When the Board determines that the record in the proceeding is complete, the Board will serve notice upon the parties that the proceeding has been submitted to the Board for final decision.
(b)
Oral argument before the Board.
Upon the initiative of the Board or on the written request of any party filed with the Board within the time for filing exceptions, the Board may order and hear oral argument on the recommended findings, conclusions, decision, and order of the ALJ. A written request by a party must show good cause for oral argument and state reasons why arguments cannot be presented adequately in writing. A denial of a request for oral argument may be set forth in the Board's final decision. Oral argument before the Board must be on the record.
(c)
Board's final decision.
(1) Decisional employees may advise and assist the Board in the consideration and disposition of the case. The final decision of the Board will be based upon review of the entire record of the proceeding, except that the Board may limit the issues to be reviewed to those findings and conclusions to which opposing arguments or exceptions have been filed by the parties.
(2) The Board will render a final decision within 90 days after notification of the parties that the case has been submitted for final decision, or 90 days after oral argument, whichever is later, unless the Board orders that the action
or any aspect thereof be remanded to the ALJ for further proceedings. Copies of the final decision and order of the Board will be served upon each party to the proceeding, upon other persons required by statute, and, if directed by the Board or required by statute, upon any appropriate State or Federal supervisory authority.
§ 263.41
Stays pending judicial review.
The commencement of proceedings for judicial review of a final decision and order of the Board may not, unless specifically ordered by the Board or a reviewing court, operate as a stay of any order issued by the Board. The Board may, in the Board's, and on such terms as the Board finds just, stay the effectiveness of all or any part of an order pending a final decision on a petition for review of that order.

# Subpart B—Board Local Rules Supplementing the Uniform Rules

# Source:
88 FR 89909, Dec. 28, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 263.50
Purpose and scope.
(a) This subpart prescribes the rules of practice and procedure governing formal adjudications set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, and supplements the rules of practice and procedure contained in subpart A of this part.
(b) The rules and procedures of this subpart and subpart A of this part will apply to the formal adjudications set forth in § 263.1 and to the following adjudications:
(1) Suspension of a member bank from use of credit facilities of the Federal Reserve System under section 4 of the FRA (12 U.S.C. 301);
(2) Termination of a bank's membership in the Federal Reserve System under section 9 of the FRA (12 U.S.C. 327);
(3) Issuance of a cease-and-desist order under section 11 of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. 21);
(4) Adjudications under sections 2, 3, or 4 of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1841, 1842, or 1843);
(5) Formal adjudications on bank merger applications under section 18(c) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1828(c));
(6) Issuance of a divestiture order under section 5(e) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1844(e));
(7) Imposition of sanctions upon any municipal securities dealer for which the Board is the appropriate regulatory agency, or upon any person associated or seeking to become associated with such a municipal securities dealer, under section 15B(c)(5) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-4);
(8) Proceedings where the Board otherwise orders that a formal hearing be held;
(9) Termination of the activities of a state branch, state agency, or commercial lending company subsidiary of a foreign bank in the United States, pursuant to section 7(e) of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3105(d));
(10) Termination of the activities of a representative office of a foreign bank in the United States, pursuant to section 10(b) of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3107(b));
(11) Issuance of a prompt corrective action directive to a member bank under section 38 of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1831o);
(12) Reclassification of a member bank on grounds of unsafe or unsound condition under section 38(g)(1) of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1831o(g)(1));
(13) Reclassification of a member bank on grounds of unsafe and unsound practice under section 38(g)(1) of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1831o(g)(1));
(14) Issuance of an order requiring a member bank to dismiss a director or senior executive officer under section 38 (e)(5) and 38(f)(2) (F)(ii) of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1831o(e)(5) and 1831o(f)(2) (F)(ii)); and
(15) Adjudications under section 10 of the HOLA (12 U.S.C. 1467a).
§ 263.51
Definitions.
As used in subparts B through G of this part:
(a)
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
(b)
Member bank
means any bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System.
(c)
Institution
has the same meaning as that assigned to it in subpart A of this part, and includes any foreign bank with a representative office in the United States.
§ 263.52
Address for filing.
All papers to be filed with the Board must be filed with the Secretary of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, DC 20551. All papers to be filed with the Board electronically must be sent to:
OSEC-Litigation@frb.gov
.
§ 263.53
Discovery depositions.
(a)
In general.
In addition to the discovery permitted in subpart A of this part, limited discovery by means of depositions will be allowed for individuals with knowledge of facts material to the proceeding that are not protected from discovery by any applicable privilege, and of identified expert witnesses. Except in unusual cases, accordingly, depositions will be permitted only of individuals identified as hearing witnesses, including experts. All discovery depositions must be completed within the time set forth in § 263.24(d).
(b)
Application.
A party who desires to take a deposition of any other party's proposed witnesses, must apply to the ALJ for the issuance of a deposition subpoena or subpoena duces tecum. The application must state the name and address of the proposed deponent, the subject matter of the testimony expected from the deponent and its relevancy to the proceeding, and the address of the place, the manner (
e.g.,
remote means, in person), and the time, no sooner than ten days after the service of the subpoena, for the taking of the deposition. Any such application must be treated as a motion subject to the rules governing motions practice set forth in § 263.23.
(c)
Issuance of subpoena.
The ALJ must issue the requested deposition subpoena or subpoena
duces tecum
upon a finding that the application satisfies the requirements of this section and of § 263.24. If the ALJ determines that the taking of the deposition or its proposed location or manner is, in whole or in part, unnecessary, unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope or unduly burdensome, the ALJ may deny the application or may grant it upon such conditions as justice may require. The party obtaining the deposition subpoena or subpoena
duces tecum
will be responsible for serving it on the deponent and all parties to the proceeding in accordance with § 263.11. A deposition subpoena may require the witness to be deposed at any place within the country in which that witness resides or has a regular place of employment, by remote means, or such other convenient place or manner, as the ALJ fixes.
(d)
Motion to quash or modify.
A person named in a deposition subpoena or subpoena
duces tecum
may file a motion to quash or modify the subpoena or for the issuance of a protective order. Such motions must be filed within ten days following service of the subpoena, but in all cases at least five days prior to the commencement of the scheduled deposition. The motion must be accompanied by a statement of the reasons for granting the motion and a copy of the motion and the statement must be served on the party which requested the subpoena. Only the party requesting the subpoena may file a response to a motion to quash or modify, and any such response must be filed within five days following service of the motion.
(e)
Enforcement of a deposition subpoena.
Enforcement of a deposition subpoena must be in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 263.27(d).
(f)
Conduct of the deposition.
The deponent must be duly sworn. By stipulation of the parties or order by the ALJ, a court reporter or other person authorized to administer an oath may administer the oath remotely, without being in the physical presence of the deponent. Each party may examine the deponent with respect to all non-privileged, relevant, and material matters. Objections to questions or evidence must be in the short form, stating the ground for the objection. Failure to object to questions or evidence will not be deemed a waiver except where the grounds for the objection might have been avoided if the objection had been timely presented. The discovery deposition must be transcribed or otherwise recorded as agreed among the parties.
(g)
Protective orders.
At any time during the taking of a discovery deposition, on the motion of any party or of the deponent, the ALJ may terminate or limit the scope and manner of the deposition upon a finding that grounds
exist for such relief. Grounds for terminating or limiting the taking of a discovery deposition include a finding that the discovery deposition is being conducted in bad faith or in such a manner as to:
(1) Unreasonably annoy, embarrass, or oppress the deponent;
(2) Unreasonably probe into privilege, irrelevant, or immaterial matters; or
(3) Unreasonably attempt to pry into a party's preparation for trial.
§ 263.54
Delegation to the Office of Financial Institution Adjudication.
Unless otherwise ordered by the Board, administrative adjudications subject to subpart A of this part must be conducted by an ALJ of OFIA.
§ 263.55
Board as Presiding Officer.
The Board may, in its discretion, designate itself, one or more of its members, or an authorized officer, to act as presiding officer in a formal hearing. In such a proceeding, the authority of Board or its designee will include all the authority provided to an ALJ under this part. Proposed findings and conclusions, briefs, and other submissions by the parties permitted in subpart A of this part must be filed with the Secretary for consideration by the Board. Sections 263.38 and 263.39 will not apply to proceedings conducted under this section.
§ 263.56
Initial licensing proceedings.
Proceedings with respect to applications for initial licenses will include, but not be limited to, applications for Board approval under section 3 of the BHC Act and section 10 of HOLA and such proceedings as may be ordered by the Board with respect to applications under section 18(c) of the FDIA. In such initial licensing proceedings, the procedures set forth in subpart A of this part will apply, except that the Board may designate a Board Counsel to represent the Board in a nonadversary capacity for the purpose of developing for the record information relevant to the issues to be determined by the Presiding Officer and the Board. In such proceedings, Board Counsel will be considered to be a decisional employee for purposes of §§ 263.9 and 263.40.
§ 263.57
Sanctions relating to conduct in an adjudicatory proceeding.
(a)
General rule.
The ALJ may impose sanctions when any party or person in an adjudicatory proceeding under this part has failed to comply with an applicable statute, regulation, or order, and that failure to comply:
(1) Constitutes contemptuous conduct;
(2) Materially injures or prejudices another party in terms of substantive injury, incurring additional expenses including attorney's fees, prejudicial delay, or otherwise;
(3) Is a clear and unexcused violation of an applicable statute, regulation, or order; or
(4) Unduly delays the proceeding.
(b)
Sanctions.
Sanctions which may be imposed include any one or more of the following:
(1) Issuing an order against the party;
(2) Rejecting or striking any testimony or documentary evidence offered, or other papers filed, by the party;
(3) Precluding the party from:
(i) Contesting specific issues or findings;
(ii) Offering certain evidence or challenging or contesting certain evidence offered by another party; or
(iii) Making a late filing or conditioning a late filing on any terms that are just;
(4) Assessing reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by any other party as a result of the improper action or failure to act; and
(5) Excluding or suspending a party or person from the adjudicatory proceeding.
(c)
Procedure for imposition of sanctions.
(1) Upon the motion of any party, or on the ALJ's own motion, the ALJ may impose sanctions in accordance with this section. The ALJ must submit to the Board for final ruling the sanction of entering a final order determining the case on the merits.
(2) No sanction authorized by this section, other than refusal to accept late filings, must be imposed without prior notice to all parties and an opportunity for any party or person against whom sanctions would be imposed to be heard. Such opportunity to be heard
may be on such notice, and the response may be in such form, as the ALJ directs. The ALJ may limit the opportunity to be heard to an opportunity of a party or person to respond orally immediately after the act or inaction covered by this section is noted by the ALJ.
(3) Requests for the imposition of sanctions by any party, and the imposition of sanctions, are subject to interlocutory review in the same manner as any other ruling by the ALJ.
(d)
Section not exclusive.
Nothing in this section precludes the ALJ or the Board from taking any other action, or imposing any restriction or sanction, authorized by applicable statute or regulation.

# Subpart C—Rules and Procedures for Assessment and Collection of Civil Money Penalties
§ 263.60
Scope.
The Uniform Rules set forth in subpart A of this part shall govern the procedures for assessment of civil money penalties, except as otherwise provided in this subpart.
§ 263.61
Opportunity for informal proceeding.
In the sole discretion of the Board's General Counsel, the General Counsel may, prior to the issuance by the Board of a notice of assessment of civil penalty, advise the affected person that the issuance of a notice of assessment of civil penalty is being considered and the reasons and authority for the proposed assessment. The General Counsel may provide the person an opportunity to present written materials or request a conference with members of the Board's staff to show that the penalty should not be assessed or, if assessed, should be reduced in amount.
§ 263.62
Relevant considerations for assessment of civil penalty.
In determining the amount of the penalty to be assessed, the Board shall take into account the appropriateness of the penalty with respect to the financial resources and good faith of the person charged, the gravity of the misconduct, the history of previous misconduct, the economic benefit derived by the person from the misconduct, and such other matters as justice may require.
§ 263.63
Assessment order.
(a) In the event of consent to an assessment by the person concerned, or if, upon the record made at an administrative hearing, the Board finds that the grounds for having assessed the penalty have been established, the Board may issue a final order of assessment of civil penalty. In its final order, the Board may modify the amount of the penalty specified in the notice of assessment.
(b) An assessment order is effective immediately upon issuance, or upon such other date as may be specified therein, and shall remain effective and enforceable until it is stayed, modified, terminated, or set aside by action of the Board or a reviewing court.
§ 263.64
Payment of civil penalty.
(a) The date designated in the notice of assessment for payment of the civil penalty will normally be 60 days from the issuance of the notice. If, however, the Board finds in a specific case that the purposes of the authorizing statute would be better served if the 60-day period is changed, the Board may shorten or lengthen the period or make the civil penalty payable immediately upon receipt of the notice of assessment. If a timely request for a formal hearing to challenge an assessment of civil penalty is filed, payment of the penalty shall not be required unless and until the Board issues a final order of assessment following the hearing. If an assessment order is issued, it will specify the date by which the civil penalty should be paid or collected.
(b) Checks in payment of civil penalties should be made payable to the “Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.” Upon collection, the Board shall forward the amount of the penalty to the Treasury of the United States.
§ 263.65
Civil money penalty inflation adjustments.
(a)
Inflation adjustments.
In accordance with the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015, which further
amended the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, the Board has set forth in paragraph (b) of this section the adjusted maximum amounts for each civil money penalty provided by law within the Board's jurisdiction. The authorizing statutes contain the complete provisions under which the Board may seek a civil money penalty. The adjusted civil money penalties apply only to penalties assessed on or after January 12, 2024, whose associated violations occurred on or after November 2, 2015.
(b)
Maximum civil money penalties.
The maximum (or, in the cases of 12 U.S.C. 334 and 1832(c), fixed) civil money penalties as set forth in the referenced statutory sections are set forth in the table in this paragraph (b).
Table 1 to Paragraph (
b
)
Statute
Adjusted civil
money penalty
12 U.S.C. 324:
Inadvertently late or misleading reports, inter alia
$4,899
Other late or misleading reports, inter alia
48,992
Knowingly or reckless false or misleading reports, inter alia
2,449,575
12 U.S.C. 334
356
12 U.S.C. 374a
356
12 U.S.C. 504:
First Tier
12,249
Second Tier
61,238
Third Tier
2,449,575
12 U.S.C. 505:
First Tier
12,249
Second Tier
61,238
Third Tier
2,449,575
12 U.S.C. 1464(v)(4)
4,899
12 U.S.C. 1464(v)(5)
48,992
12 U.S.C. 1464(v)(6)
2,449,575
12 U.S.C. 1467a(i)(2)
61,238
12 U.S.C. 1467a(i)(3)
61,238
12 U.S.C. 1467a(r):
First Tier
4,899
Second Tier
48,992
Third Tier
2,449,575
12 U.S.C. 1817(j)(16):
First Tier
12,249
Second Tier
61,238
Third Tier
2,449,575
12 U.S.C. 1818(i)(2):
First Tier
12,249
Second Tier
61,238
Third Tier
2,449,575
12 U.S.C. 1820(k)(6)(A)(ii)
402,920
12 U.S.C. 1832(c)
3,558
12 U.S.C. 1847(b)
61,238
12 U.S.C. 1847(d):
First Tier
4,899
Second Tier
48,992
Third Tier
2,449,575
12 U.S.C. 1884
356
12 U.S.C. 1972(2)(F):
First Tier
12,249
Second Tier
61,238
Third Tier
2,449,575
12 U.S.C. 3110(a)
55,981
12 U.S.C. 3110(c):
First Tier
4,480
Second Tier
44,783
Third Tier
2,239,210
12 U.S.C. 3909(d)
3,047
15 U.S.C. 78u-2(b)(1):
For a natural person
11,524
For any other person
115,231
15 U.S.C. 78u-2(b)(2)
For a natural person
115,231
For any other person
576,158
15 U.S.C. 78u-2(b)(3)
For a natural person
230,464
For any other person
1,152,314
15 U.S.C. 1639e(k)(1)
14,069
15 U.S.C. 1639e(k)(2)
28,135
42 U.S.C. 4012a(f)(5)
2,661
[89 FR 2115, Jan. 12, 2024]

# Subpart D—Rules and Procedures Applicable to Suspension or Removal of an Institution-Affiliated Party Where a Felony is Charged or Proven
§ 263.70
Purpose and scope.
The rules and procedures set forth in this subpart apply to informal hearings afforded to any institution-affiliated party for whom the Board is the appropriate regulatory agency, who has been suspended or removed from office or prohibited from further participation in any manner in the conduct of the institution's affairs by a notice or order issued by the Board upon the grounds set forth in section 8(g) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1818(g)).
§ 263.71
Notice or order of suspension, removal, or prohibition.
(a)
Grounds.
The Board may suspend an institution-affiliated party from office or prohibit an institution-affiliated party from further participation in any manner in the conduct of an institution's affairs when the person is charged in any information, indictment, or complaint authorized by a United States attorney with the commission of, or participation in, a crime involving dishonesty or breach of trust that is punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year under State or Federal law. The Board may remove an institution-affiliated party from office or prohibit an institution-affiliated party from further participation in any manner in the conduct of an institution's affairs when the person is convicted of such an offense and the conviction is not subject to further direct appellate review. The Board may suspend or remove an institution-affiliated party or prohibit an institution-affiliated party from participation in an institution's affairs in these circumstances if the Board finds that continued service to the financial institution or participation in its affairs by the institution-affiliated party may pose a threat to the interests of the institution's depositors or may threaten to impair public confidence in the financial institution.
(b)
Contents.
The Board commences a suspension, removal, or prohibition action under this subpart with the issuance, and service upon an institution-affiliated party, of a notice of suspension from office, or order of removal from office, or notice or order of prohibition from participation in the financial institution's affairs. Such a notice or order shall indicate the basis for the suspension, removal, or prohibition and shall inform the institution-affiliated party of the right to request in writing, within 30 days of service of the notice or order, an opportunity to show at an informal hearing that continued service to, or participation in the conduct of the affairs of, the financial institution does not and is not likely to pose a threat to the interests of the financial institution's depositors or threaten to impair public confidence in the financial institution. Failure to file a timely request for an informal hearing shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to request such a hearing. A notice of suspension or prohibition shall remain in effect until the criminal charge upon which the notice is based is finally disposed of or until the notice is terminated by the Board.
(c)
Service.
The notice or order shall be served upon the affiliated financial institution concerned, whereupon the institution-affiliated party shall immediately cease service to the financial institution or further participation in any manner in the conduct of the affairs of the financial institution. A notice or order of suspension, removal, or prohibition may be served by any of
the means authorized for service under § 263.11(c)(2) of subpart A.
§ 263.72
Request for informal hearing.
An institution-affiliated party who is suspended or removed from office or prohibited from participation in the institution's affairs may request an informal hearing within 30 days of service of the notice or order. The request shall be filed in writing with the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, DC 20551. The request shall state with particularity the relief desired and the grounds therefor and shall include, when available, supporting evidence in the form of affidavits. If the institution-affiliated party desires to present oral testimony or witnesses at the hearing, the institution-affiliated party must include a request to do so with the request for informal hearing. The request to present oral testimony or witnesses shall specify the names of the witnesses and the general nature of their expected testimony.
§ 263.73
Order for informal hearing.
(a)
Issuance of hearing order.
Upon receipt of a timely request for an informal hearing, the Secretary shall promptly issue an order directing an informal hearing to commence within 30 days of the receipt of the request. At the request of the institution-affiliated party, the Secretary may order the hearing to commence at a time more than 30 days after the receipt of the request for hearing. The hearing shall be held in Washington, DC, or at such other place as may be designated by the Secretary, before presiding officers designated by the Secretary to conduct the hearing. The presiding officers normally will include representatives from the Board's Legal Division and the Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation and from the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank.
(b)
Waiver of oral hearing.
A institution-affiliated party may waive in writing his or her right to an oral hearing and instead elect to have the matter determined by the Board solely on the basis of written submissions.
(c)
Hearing procedures.
(1) The institution-affiliated party may appear at the hearing personally, through counsel, or personally with counsel. The institution-affiliated party shall have the right to introduce relevant written materials and to present an oral argument. The institution-affiliated party may introduce oral testimony and present witnesses only if expressly authorized by the Board or the Secretary. Except as provided in § 263.11, the adjudicative procedures of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 554-557) and of subpart A of this part shall not apply to the informal hearing ordered under this subpart unless the Board orders that subpart A of this part applies.
(2) The informal hearing shall be recorded and a transcript shall be furnished to the institution-affiliated party upon request and after the payment of the cost thereof. Witnesses need not be sworn, unless specifically requested by a party or the presiding officers. The presiding officers may ask questions of any witness.
(3) The presiding officers may order the record to be kept open for a reasonable period following the hearing (normally five business days), during which time additional submissions to the record may be made. Thereafter, the record shall be closed.
(d)
Authority of presiding officers.
In the course of or in connection with any proceeding under this subpart, the Board or the presiding officers are authorized to administer oaths and affirmations, to take or cause to be taken depositions, to issue, quash or modify subpoenas and subpoenas duces tecum, and, for the enforcement thereof, to apply to an appropriate United States district court. All action relating to depositions and subpoenas shall be in accordance with the rules provided in §§ 263.34 and 263.53.
(e)
Recommendation of presiding officers.
The presiding officers shall make a recommendation to the Board concerning the notice or order of suspension, removal, or prohibition within 20 calendar days following the close of the record on the hearing.
§ 263.74
Decision of the Board.
(a) Within 60 days following the close of the record on the hearing, or receipt of written submissions where a hearing has been waived, the Board shall notify the institution-affiliated party whether
the notice of suspension or prohibition will be continued, terminated, or otherwise modified, or whether the order of removal or prohibition will be rescinded or otherwise modified. The notification shall contain a statement of the basis for any adverse decision by the Board. In the case of a decision favorable to the institution-affiliated party, the Board shall take prompt action to rescind or otherwise modify the order of suspension, removal or prohibition.
(b) In deciding the question of suspension, removal, or prohibition under this subpart, the Board shall not rule on the question of the guilt or innocence of the individual with respect to the crime with which the individual has been charged.

# Subpart E—Procedures for Issuance and Enforcement of Directives To Maintain Adequate Capital
§ 263.80
Purpose and scope.
This subpart establishes procedures under which the Board may issue a directive or take other action to require a state member bank, bank holding company, or a savings and loan holding company to achieve and maintain adequate capital.
[76 FR 56604, Sept. 13, 2011]
§ 263.81
Definitions.
(a)
Bank holding company
means any company that controls a bank as defined in section 2 of the BHC Act, 12 U.S.C. 1841, and in the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.2(b)) or any direct or indirect subsidiary thereof other than a bank subsidiary as defined in section 2(c) of the BHC Act, 12 U.S.C. 1841(c), and in the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.2(a)).
(b)
Capital Adequacy Guidelines
means those guidelines for bank holding companies and state member banks contained in appendices A and D to the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR part 225), and in appendix A to the Board's Regulation H (12 CFR part 208), or any succeeding capital guidelines promulgated by the Board.
(c)
Directive
means a final order issued by the Board:
(1) Pursuant to ILSA (12 U.S.C. 3907(b)(2)) requiring a state member bank or bank holding company to increase capital to or maintain capital at the minimum level set forth in the Board's Capital Adequacy Guidelines or as otherwise established under procedures described in § 263.85; or
(2) Pursuant to HOLA (12 U.S.C. 1467a(g)(1)) requiring a savings and loan holding company to increase capital to or maintain capital at a certain level.
(d)
State member bank
means any state-chartered bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System.
(e)
Savings and loan holding company
means any company that controls a savings association as defined in section 10 of the HOLA, 12 U.S.C. 1467a, and in the Board's Regulation LL (12 CFR 238.2) or any direct or indirect subsidiary thereof other than a savings association subsidiary as defined in section 10 of the HOLA, 12 U.S.C. 1467a, and in the Board's Regulation LL (12 CFR 238.2).
[56 FR 38052, Aug. 9, 1991, as amended at 76 FR 56604, Sept. 13, 2011]
§ 263.82
Establishment of minimum capital levels.
The Board has established minimum capital levels for state member banks and bank holding companies in its Capital Adequacy Guidelines. The Board may set higher capital levels as necessary and appropriate for a particular state member bank or bank holding company based upon its financial condition, managerial resources, prospects, or similar factors, pursuant to the procedures set forth in § 263.85 of this subpart.
§ 263.83
Issuance of capital directives.
(a)
Notice of intent to issue directive.
If a state member bank or bank holding company is operating with less than the minimum level of capital established in the Board's Capital Adequacy Guidelines, or as otherwise established under the procedures described in § 263.85, or if the Board has determined that the current capital level of a savings and loan holding company is not adequate, the Board may issue and serve upon such state member bank, bank holding company, or savings and loan holding company written notice of
the Board's intent to issue a directive to require the bank, bank holding company, or savings and loan holding company to achieve and maintain adequate capital within a specified time period.
(b)
Contents of notice.
The notice of intent to issue a directive shall include:
(1) The required minimum level of capital to be achieved or maintained by the institution;
(2) Its current level of capital;
(3) The proposed increase in capital needed to meet the minimum requirements;
(4) The proposed date or schedule for meeting these minimum requirements;
(5) When deemed appropriate, specific details of a proposed plan for meeting the minimum capital requirements; and
(6) The date for a written response by the bank or bank holding company to the proposed directive, which shall be at least 14 days from the date of issuance of the notice unless the Board determines a shorter period is necessary because of the financial condition of the bank or bank holding company.
(c)
Response to notice.
The bank or bank holding company may file a written response to the notice within the time period set by the Board. The response may include:
(1) An explanation why a directive should not be issued;
(2) Any proposed modification of the terms of the directive;
(3) Any relevant information, mitigating circumstances, documentation or other evidence in support of the institution's position regarding the proposed directive; and
(4) The institution's plan for attaining the required level of capital.
(d)
Failure to file response.
Failure by the bank or bank holding company to file a written response to the notice of intent to issue a directive within the specified time period shall constitute a waiver of the opportunity to respond and shall constitute consent to the issuance of such directive.
(e)
Board consideration of response.
After considering the response of the bank or bank holding company, the Board may:
(1) Issue the directive as originally proposed or in modified form;
(2) Determine not to issue a directive and so notify the bank or bank holding company; or
(3) Seek additional information or clarification of the response by the bank or bank holding company.
(f)
Contents of directive.
Any directive issued by the Board may order the bank or bank holding company to:
(1) Achieve or maintain the minimum capital requirement established pursuant to the Board's Capital Adequacy Guidelines or the procedures in § 263.85 of this subpart by a certain date;
(2) Adhere to a previously submitted plan or submit for approval and adhere to a plan for achieving the minimum capital requirement by a certain date;
(3) Take other specific action as the Board directs to achieve the minimum capital levels, including requiring a reduction of assets or asset growth or restriction on the payment of dividends; or
(4) Take any combination of the above actions.
(g)
Request for reconsideration of directive.
Any state member bank or bank holding company, upon a change in circumstances, may request the Board to reconsider the terms of a directive and may propose changes in the plan under which it is operating to meet the required minimum capital level. The directive and plan continue in effect while such request is pending before the Board.
[56 FR 38052, Aug. 9, 1991, as amended at 76 FR 56604, Sept. 13, 2011]
§ 263.84
Enforcement of directive.
(a)
Judicial and administrative remedies.
(1) Whenever a bank or bank holding company fails to follow a directive issued under this subpart, or to submit or adhere to a capital adequacy plan as required by such directive, the Board may seek enforcement of the directive, including the capital adequacy plan, in the appropriate United States district court, pursuant to section 908 (b)(2)(B)(ii) of ILSA (12 U.S.C. 3907(b)(2)(B)(ii)) and to section 8(i) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1818(i)), in the same manner and to the same extent as if the directive were a final cease-and-
desist order. Whenever a savings and loan holding company fails to follow a directive issued under this subpart, or to submit or adhere to a capital adequacy plan as required by such directive, the Board may seek enforcement of the directive, including the capital adequacy plan, in the proper United States district court, or the United States court of any territory or other place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, pursuant to section 10(g)(4) of HOLA (12 U.S.C. 1567a(g)(4)).
(2) The Board, pursuant to section 910(d) of ILSA (12 U.S.C. 3909(d)), may also assess civil money penalties for violation of the directive against any bank or bank holding company and any institution-affiliated party of the bank or bank holding company, in the same manner and to the same extent as if the directive were a final cease-and-desist order. The Board, pursuant to section 10(i) (12 U.S.C. 1467a(i)), may also assess civil money penalties for violation of the directive against any savings and loan holding company and any institution-affiliated party of the savings and loan holding company, in the same manner and to the same extent as if the directive were a final cease-and-desist order.
(b)
Other enforcement actions.
A directive may be issued separately, in conjunction with, or in addition to any other enforcement actions available to the Board, including issuance of cease-and-desist orders, the approval or denial of applications or notices, or any other actions authorized by law.
(c)
Consideration in application proceedings.
In acting upon any application or notice submitted to the Board pursuant to any statute administered by the Board, the Board may consider the progress of a state member bank, bank holding company, or savings and loan holding company or any subsidiary thereof in adhering to any directive or capital adequacy plan required by the Board pursuant to this subpart, or by any other appropriate banking supervisory agency pursuant to ILSA. The Board shall consider whether approval or a notice of intent not to disapprove would divert earnings, diminish capital, or otherwise impede the bank, bank holding company, or savings and loan holding company in achieving its required minimum capital level or complying with its capital adequacy plan.
[56 FR 38052, Aug. 9, 1991, as amended at 76 FR 56604, Sept. 13, 2011]
§ 263.85
Establishment of increased capital level for specific institutions.
(a)
Establishment of capital levels for specific institutions.
The Board may establish a capital level higher than the minimum specified in the Board's Capital Adequacy Guidelines for a specific bank or bank holding company pursuant to:
(1) A written agreement or memorandum of understanding between the Board or the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank and the bank or bank holding company;
(2) A temporary or final cease-and-desist order issued pursuant to section 8(b) or (c) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1818(b) or (c));
(3) A condition for approval of an application or issuance of a notice of intent not to disapprove a proposal;
(4) Or other similar means; or
(5) The procedures set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Procedure to establish higher capital requirement
—(1)
Notice.
When the Board determines that capital levels above those in the Board's Capital Adequacy Guidelines may be necessary and appropriate for a particular bank or bank holding company under the circumstances, or when the Board determines that the current capital level of a savings and loan holding company is not adequate, the Board shall give the bank or bank holding company notice of the proposed higher capital requirement and shall permit the bank, bank holding company, or savings and loan holding company an opportunity to comment upon the proposed capital level, whether it should be required and, if so, under what time schedule. The notice shall contain the Board's reasons for proposing a higher level of capital.
(2)
Response.
The bank, bank holding company, or savings and loan holding company shall be allowed at least 14
days to respond, unless the Board determines that a shorter period is necessary because of the financial condition of the bank, bank holding company, or savings and loan holding company. Failure by the bank, bank holding company, or savings and loan holding company to file a written response to the notice within the time set by the Board shall constitute a waiver of the opportunity to respond and shall constitute consent to issuance of a directive containing the required minimum capital level.
(3)
Board decision.
After considering the response of the institution, the Board may issue a written directive to the bank, bank holding company, or savings and loan holding company setting an appropriate capital level and the date on which this capital level will become effective. The Board may require the bank, bank holding company, or savings and loan holding company to submit and adhere to a plan for achieving such higher capital level as the Board may set.
(4)
Enforcement of higher capital level.
The Board may enforce the capital level established pursuant to the procedures described in this section and any plan submitted to achieve that capital level through the procedures set forth in § 263.84 of this subpart.
[56 FR 38052, Aug. 9, 1991, as amended at 76 FR 56604, Sept. 13, 2011]

# Subpart F—Practice Before the Board
§ 263.90
Scope.
This subpart prescribes rules relating to general practice before the Board on one's own behalf or in a representational capacity, including the circumstances under which disciplinary sanctions—censure, suspension, or debarment—may be imposed upon persons appearing in a representational capacity, including attorneys and accountants, but not including employees of the Board. These disciplinary sanctions, which continue in effect beyond the duration of a specific proceeding, supplement the provisions of § 263.6(b) of subpart A, which address control of a specific proceeding.
§ 263.91
Censure, suspension or debarment.
The Board may censure an individual or suspend or debar such individual from practice before the Board if he or she engages, or has engaged, in conduct warranting sanctions as set forth in § 263.94; refuses to comply with the rules and regulations in this part; or with intent to defraud in any manner, willfully and knowingly deceives, misleads, or threatens any client or prospective client. The suspension or debarment of an individual shall be initiated only upon a finding by the Board that the conduct that forms the basis for the disciplinary action is egregious.
§ 263.92
Definitions.
(a) As used in this subpart, the following terms shall have the meaning given in this section unless the context otherwise requires.
(b)(1)
Practice before the Board
includes any matters connected with presentations to the Board or to any of its officers or employees relating to a client's rights, privileges or liabilities under laws or regulations administered by the Board. Such matters include, but are not limited to, the preparation of any statement, opinion or other paper or document by an attorney, accountant, or other licensed professional which is filed with, or submitted to, the Board, on behalf of another person in, or in connection with, any application, notification, report or document; the representation of a person at conferences, hearings and meetings; and the transaction of other business before the Board on behalf of another person.
(2)
Practice before the Board
does not include work prepared for an institution solely at its request for use in the ordinary course of its business.
(c)
Attorney
means any individual who is a member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any state, possession, territory, commonwealth, or the District of Columbia.
(d)
Accountant
means any individual who is duly qualified to practice as a certified public accountant or a public accountant in any state, possession, territory, commonwealth, or the District of Columbia.
§ 263.93
Eligibility to practice.
(a)
Attorneys.
Any attorney who is qualified to practice as an attorney and is not currently under suspension or debarment pursuant to this subpart may practice before the Board.
(b)
Accountants.
Any accountant who is qualified to practice as a certified public accountant or public accountant and is not currently under suspension or debarment by the Board may practice before the Board.
§ 263.94
Conduct warranting sanctions.
Conduct for which an individual may be censured, debarred or suspended from practice before the Board includes, but is not limited to:
(a) Willfully or recklessly violating or willfully or recklessly aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal banking or applicable securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder or conviction of any offense involving dishonesty or breach of trust;
(b) Knowingly or recklessly giving false or misleading information, or participating in any way in the giving of false information to the Board or to any Board officer or employee, or to any tribunal authorized to pass upon matters administered by the Board in connection with any matter pending or likely to be pending before it. The term “information” includes facts or other statements contained in testimony, financial statements, applications, affidavits, declarations, or any other document or written or oral statement;
(c) Directly or indirectly attempting to influence, or offering or agreeing to attempt to influence, the official action of any officer or employee of the Board by the use of threats, false accusations, duress or coercion, by the offer of any special inducement or promise of advantage or by the bestowing of any gift, favor, or thing of value;
(d) Disbarment or suspension from practice as an attorney, or debarment or suspension from practice as a certified public accountant or public accountant, by any duly constituted authority of any state, possession, commonwealth, or the District of Columbia for the conviction of a felony or misdemeanor involving personal dishonesty or breach of trust in matters relating to the supervisory responsibilities of the Board, where the conviction has not been reversed on appeal;
(e) Knowingly aiding or abetting another individual to practice before the Board during that individual's period of suspension, debarment, or ineligibility;
(f) Contemptuous conduct in connection with practice before the Board, and knowingly making false accusations and statements, or circulating or publishing malicious or libelous matter;
(g) Suspension or debarment from practice before the OCC, the FDIC, the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the NCUA, or any other Federal agency based on matters relating to the supervisory responsibilities of the Board;
(h) Willful or knowing violation of any of the regulations contained in this part.
[56 FR 38052, Aug. 9, 1991, as amended at 68 FR 48267, Aug. 13, 2003; 76 FR 56605, Sept. 13, 2011]
§ 263.95
Initiation of disciplinary proceeding.
(a)
Receipt of information.
An individual, including any employee of the Board, who has reason to believe that an individual practicing before the Board in a representative capacity has engaged in any conduct that would serve as a basis for censure, suspension or debarment under § 263.94, may make a report thereof and forward it to the Board.
(b)
Censure without formal proceeding.
Upon receipt of information regarding an individual's qualification to practice before the Board, the Board may, after giving the individual notice and opportunity to respond, censure such individual.
(c)
Institution of formal disciplinary proceeding.
When the Board has reason to believe that any individual who practices before the Board in a representative capacity has engaged in conduct that would serve as a basis for censure, suspension or debarment under § 263.94 the Board may, after giving the individual notice and opportunity to respond, institute a formal disciplinary proceeding against such
individual. The proceeding shall be conducted pursuant to § 263.97 and shall be initiated by a complaint issued by the Board that names the individual as a respondent. Except in cases when time, the nature of the proceeding, or the public interest do not permit, a proceeding under this section shall not be instituted until the respondent has been informed, in writing, of the facts or conduct which warrant institution of a proceeding and the respondent has been accorded the opportunity to comply with all lawful requirements or take whatever action may be necessary to remedy the conduct that is the basis for the initiation of the proceeding.
§ 263.96
Conferences.
(a)
General.
The Board's staff may confer with a proposed respondent concerning allegations of misconduct or other grounds for censure, debarment or suspension, regardless of whether a proceeding for debarment or suspension has been instituted. If a conference results in a stipulation in connection with a proceeding in which the individual is the respondent, the stipulation may be entered in the record at the request of either party to the proceeding.
(b)
Resignation or voluntary suspension.
In order to avoid the institution of, or a decision in, a debarment or suspension proceeding, a person who practices before the Board may consent to suspension from practice. At the discretion of the Board, the individual may be suspended or debarred in accordance with the consent offered.
§ 263.97
Proceedings under this subpart.
Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, any hearing held under this subpart shall be held before an administrative law judge of the OFIA pursuant to procedures set forth in subparts A and B of this part. The Board shall appoint a person to represent the Board in the hearing. Any person having prior involvement in the matter which is the basis for the suspension or debarment proceeding shall be disqualified from representing the Board in the hearing. The hearing shall be closed to the public unless the Board, sua sponte or on the request of a party, otherwise directs. The administrative law judge shall refer a recommended decision to the Board, which shall issue the final decision and order. In its final decision and order, the Board may censure, debar or suspend an individual, or take such other disciplinary action as the Board deems appropriate.
§ 263.98
Effect of suspension, debarment or censure.
(a)
Debarment.
If the final order against the respondent is for debarment, the individual will not thereafter be permitted to practice before the Board unless otherwise permitted to do so by the Board pursuant to § 263.99 of this subpart.
(b)
Suspension.
If the final order against the respondent is for suspension, the individual will not thereafter be permitted to practice before the Board during the period of suspension.
(c)
Censure.
If the final order against the respondent is for censure, the individual may be permitted to practice before the Board, but such individual's future representations may be subject to conditions designed to promote high standards of conduct. If a written letter of censure is issued, a copy will be maintained in the Board's files.
(d)
Notice of debarment or suspension.
Upon the issuance of a final order for suspension or debarment, the Board shall give notice of the order to appropriate officers and employees of the Board, to interested departments and agencies of the Federal Government, and to the appropriate authorities of the State in which any debarred or suspended individual is or was licensed to practice.
§ 263.99
Petition for reinstatement.
The Board may entertain a petition for reinstatement from any person debarred from practice before the Board. The Board shall grant reinstatement only if the Board finds that the petitioner is likely to act in accordance with the regulations in this part, and that granting reinstatement would not be contrary to the public interest. Any request for reinstatement shall be limited to written submissions unless the Board, in its discretion, affords the petitioner an informal hearing.

# Subpart G—Rules Regarding Claims Under the Equal Access to Justice Act
§ 263.100
Authority and scope.
This subpart implements the provisions of the Equal Access to Justice Act (5 U.S.C. 504) as they apply to formal adversary adjudications before the Board. The types of proceedings covered by this subpart are listed in §§ 263.1 and 263.50.
§ 263.101
Standards for awards.
A respondent in a covered proceeding that prevails on the merits of that proceeding against the Board, and that is eligible under this subpart as defined in § 263.103, may receive an award for fees and expenses incurred in the proceeding unless the position of the Board during the proceeding was substantially justified or special circumstances make an award unjust. The position of the Board includes, in addition to the position taken by the Board in the adversary proceeding, the action or failure to act by the Board upon which the adversary proceeding was based. An award will be reduced or denied if the applicant has unduly or unreasonably protracted the proceedings.
§ 263.102
Prevailing party.
Only an eligible applicant that prevailed on the merits of an adversary proceeding may qualify for an award under this subpart.
§ 263.103
Eligibility of applicants.
(a)
General rule.
To be eligible for an award under this subpart, an applicant must have been named as a party to the adjudicatory proceeding and show that it meets all other conditions of eligibility set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b)
Types of eligible applicant.
An applicant is eligible for an award only if it meets at least one of the following descriptions:
(1) An individual with a net worth of not more than $2 million at the time the adversary adjudication was initiated;
(2) Any sole owner of an unincorporated business, or any partnership, corporation, associations, unit of local government or organization, the net worth of which did not exceed $7,000,000 and which did not have more than 500 employees at the time the adversary adjudication was initiated;
(3) A charitable or other tax-exempt organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) with not more than 500 employees at the time the adversary proceeding was initiated; or
(4) A cooperative association as defined in section 15(a) of the Agricultural Marketing Act (12 U.S.C. 1141j(a)) with not more than 500 employees at the time the adversary proceeding was initiated.
(c)
Factors to be considered.
In determining the eligibility of an applicant:
(1) An applicant who owns an unincorporated business shall be considered as an
individual
rather than a
sole owner of an unincorporated business
if the issues on which he or she prevailed are related to personal interests rather than to business interests.
(2) An applicant's net worth includes the value of any assets disposed of for the purpose of meeting an eligibility standard and excludes the value of any obligations incurred for this purpose. Transfers of assets or obligations incurred for less than reasonably equivalent value will be presumed to have been made for this purpose.
(3) The net worth of a financial institution shall be established by the net worth information reported in conformity with applicable instructions and guidelines on the financial institution's financial report to its supervisory agency for the last reporting date before the initiation of the adversary proceeding. A bank holding company's and a savings and loan holding company's net worth will be considered on a consolidated basis even if the bank holding company or the savings and loan holding company is not required to file its regulatory reports to the Board on a consolidated basis.
(4) The employees of an applicant include all those persons who were regularly providing services for remuneration for the applicant, under its direction and control, on the date the adversary proceeding was initiated. Part-time employees are counted on a proportional basis.
(5) The net worth and number of employees of the applicant and all of its affiliates shall be aggregated to determine eligibility. As used in this subpart,
affiliates
are: Individuals, corporations, and entities that directly or indirectly or acting through one or more entities control at least 25% of the voting shares of the applicant, and corporations and entities of which the applicant directly or indirectly owns or controls at least 25% of the voting shares. The Board may determine, in light of the actual relationship among the affiliated entities, that aggregation with regard to one or more of the applicant's affiliates would be unjust and contrary to the purposes of this subpart and decline to aggregate the net worth and employees of such affiliate; alternatively, the Board may determine that financial relationships of the applicant other than those described in this paragraph constitute special circumstances that would make an award unjust.
[56 FR 38052, Aug. 9, 1991, as amended at 76 FR 56605, Sept. 13, 2011]
§ 263.104
Application for awards.
(a)
Time to file.
An application and any other pleading or document related to the application may be filed with the Board whenever the applicant has prevailed in the proceeding within 30 days after service of the final order of the Board disposing of the proceeding.
(b)
Contents.
An application for an award of fees and expenses under this subpart shall contain:
(1) The name of the applicant and an identification of the proceeding;
(2) A showing that the applicant has prevailed, and an identification of the way in which the applicant believes that the position of the Board in the proceeding was not substantially justified;
(3) If the applicant is not an individual, a statement of the number of its employees on the date the proceeding was initiated;
(4) A description of any affiliated individuals or entities, as defined in § 263.103(c)(5), or a statement that none exist;
(5) A declaration that the applicant, together with any affiliates, had a net worth not more than the maximum set forth in § 263.103(b) as of the date the proceeding was initiated, supported by a net worth statement conforming to the requirements of § 263.105;
(6) A statement of the amount of fees and expenses for which an award is sought conforming to § 263.107; and
(7) Any other matters that the applicant wishes the Board to consider in determining whether and in what amount an award should be made.
(c)
Verification.
The application shall be signed by the applicant or an authorized officer of or attorney for the applicant. It shall also contain or be accompanied by a written verification under oath or under penalty of perjury that the information provided in the application and supporting documents is true and correct.
(d)
Service.
The application and related documents shall be served on all parties to the adversary proceeding in accordance with § 263.11, except that statements of net worth shall be served only on counsel for the Board.
(e)
Presiding officer.
Upon receipt of an application, the Board shall, if feasible, refer the matter to the administrative law judge who heard the underlying adversary proceeding.
§ 263.105
Statement of net worth.
(a)
General rule.
A statement of net worth shall be filed with the application for an award of fees. The statement shall reflect the net worth of the applicant and all affiliates of the applicant, as specified in § 263.103(c)(5). In all cases, the administrative law judge or the Board may call for additional information needed to establish the applicant's net worth as of the initiation of the proceeding.
(b)
Contents.
(1) Except as otherwise provided herein, the statement of net worth may be in any form convenient to the applicant which fully discloses all the assets and liabilities of the applicant and all the assets and liabilities of its affiliates, as of the time of the initiation of the adversary adjudication. Unaudited financial statements are acceptable for individual applicants as long as the statement provides a reliable basis for evaluation, unless the administrative law judge or the Board otherwise requires. Financial statements or reports filed with or reported
to a Federal or State agency, prepared before the initiation of the adversary proceeding for other purposes, and accurate as of a date not more than three months prior to the initiation of the proceeding, shall be acceptable in establishing net worth as of the time of the initiation of the proceeding, unless the administrative law judge or the Board otherwise requires.
(2) In the case of applicants or affiliates that are not banks, net worth shall be considered for the purposes of this subpart to be the excess of total assets over total liabilities, as of the date the underlying proceeding was initiated, except as adjusted under § 263.103(c)(5). The net worth of a bank holding company or a savings and loan holding company shall be considered on a consolidated basis. Assets and liabilities of individuals shall include those beneficially owned.
(3) If the applicant or any of its affiliates is a bank or a savings association, the portion of the statement of net worth which relates to the bank or the savings association shall consist of a copy of the bank's or a savings association's last Consolidated Report of Condition and Income filed before the initiation of the adversary adjudication. Net worth shall be considered for the purposes of this subpart to be the total equity capital (or, in the case of mutual savings banks or mutual savings associations, the total surplus accounts) as reported, in conformity with applicable instructions and guidelines, on the bank's or the savings association's Consolidated Report of Condition and Income filed for the last reporting date before the initiation of the proceeding.
(c)
Statement confidential.
Unless otherwise ordered by the Board or required by law, the statement of net worth shall be for the confidential use of the Board, counsel for the Board, and the administrative law judge.
[56 FR 38052, Aug. 9, 1991, as amended at 76 FR 56605, Sept. 13, 2011]
§ 263.106
Measure of awards.
(a)
General rule.
Awards shall be based on rates customarily charged by persons engaged in the business of acting as attorneys, agents, and expert witnesses, provided that no award under this subpart for the fee of an attorney or agent shall exceed $75 per hour. No award to compensate an expert witness shall exceed the highest rate at which the Board pays expert witnesses. An award may include the reasonable expenses of the attorney, agent, or expert witness as a separate item, if the attorney, agent, or expert witness ordinarily charges clients separately for such expenses.
(b)
Determination of reasonableness of fees.
In determining the reasonableness of the fee sought for an attorney, agent, or expert witness, subject to the limits set forth above, the administrative law judge shall consider the following:
(1) If the attorney, agent, or expert witness is in private practice, his or her customary fee for like services;
(2) The prevailing rate for similar services in the community in which the attorney, agent, or expert witness ordinarily performs services;
(3) The time actually spent in the representation of the applicant;
(4) The time reasonably spent in light of the difficulty or complexity of the issues in the proceeding; and
(5) Such other factors as may bear on the value of the services provided.
(c)
Awards for studies.
The reasonable cost of any study, analysis, test, project, or similar matter prepared on behalf of an applicant may be awarded to the extent that the charge for the service does not exceed the prevailing rate payable for similar services, and the study or other matter was necessary solely for preparation of the applicant's case and not otherwise required by law or sound business or financial practice.
§ 263.107
Statement of fees and expenses.
The application shall be accompanied by a statement fully documenting the fees and expenses for which an award is sought. A separate itemized statement shall be submitted for each professional firm or individual whose services are covered by the application, showing the hours spent in work in connection with the proceeding by each individual, a description of the specific services performed, the rate at which
each fee has been computed, any expenses for which reimbursement is sought, the total amount claimed, and the total amount paid or payable by the applicant or by any other person or entity for the services performed. The administrative law judge or the Board may require the applicant to provide vouchers, receipts, or other substantiation for any expenses claimed.
§ 263.108
Responses to application.
(a)
By counsel for the Board.
(1) Within 20 days after service of an application, counsel for the Board may file an answer to the application.
(2) The answer shall explain in detail any objections to the award requested and identify the facts relied on in support of the Board's position. If the answer is based on any alleged facts not already in the record of the proceeding, the answer shall include either supporting affidavits or a request for further proceedings under § 263.109, or both.
(b)
Reply to answer.
The applicant may file a reply only if the Board has addressed in its answer any of the following issues: that the position of the agency was substantially justified, that the applicant unduly protracted the proceedings, or that special circumstances make an award unjust. Any reply authorized by this section shall be filed within 15 days of service of the answer. If the reply is based on any alleged facts not already in the record of the proceeding, the reply shall include either supporting affidavits or a request for further proceedings under § 263.109, or both.
(c)
Additional response.
Additional filings in the nature of pleadings may be submitted only by leave of the administrative law judge.
§ 263.109
Further proceedings.
(a)
General rule.
The determination of a recommended award shall be made by the administrative law judge on the basis of the written record of the adversary adjudication, including any supporting affidavits submitted in connection with the application, unless, on the motion of either the applicant or Board counsel, or sua sponte, the administrative law judge or the Board orders further proceedings to amplify the record such as an informal conference, oral argument, additional written submissions, or an evidentiary hearing. Such further proceedings shall be held only when necessary for full and fair resolution of the issues arising from the application and shall be conducted promptly and expeditiously.
(b)
Request for further proceedings.
A request for further proceedings under this section shall specifically identify the information sought or the issues in dispute and shall explain why additional proceedings are necessary.
(c)
Hearing.
The administrative law judge shall hold an oral evidentiary hearing only on disputed issues of material fact which cannot be adequately resolved through written submissions.
§ 263.110
Recommended decision.
The administrative law judge shall file with the Board a recommended decision on the fee application not later than 30 days after the submission of all pleadings and evidentiary material concerning the application. The recommended decision shall include written proposed findings and conclusions on the applicant's eligibility and its status as a prevailing party and, if applicable, an explanation of the reasons for any difference between the amount requested and the amount of the recommended award. The recommended decision shall also include, if at issue, proposed findings as to whether the Board's position was substantially justified, whether the applicant unduly protracted the proceedings, or whether special circumstances make an award unjust. The administrative law judge shall file the record of the proceeding on the fee application upon the filing of the recommended decision and, at the same time, serve upon each party a copy of the recommended decision, findings, conclusions, and proposed order.
§ 263.111
Action by the Board.
(a)
Exceptions to recommended decision.
Within 20 days after service of the recommended decision, findings, conclusions, and proposed order, the applicant or counsel for the Board may file written exceptions thereto. A supporting brief may also be filed.
(b)
Decision by the Board.
The Board shall render its decision within 90 days after it has notified the parties that the matter has been received for decision. The Board shall serve copies of the decision and order of the Board upon the parties. Judicial review of the decision and order may be obtained as provided in 5 U.S.C. 504(c)(2).

# Subpart H—Issuance and Review of Orders Pursuant to Prompt Corrective Action Provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act

# Source:
57 FR 44888, Sept. 29, 1992, unless otherwise noted.
§ 263.201
Scope.
(a) The rules and procedures set forth in this subpart apply to state member banks, companies that control state member banks or are affiliated with such banks, and senior executive officers and directors of state member banks that are subject to the provisions of section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (section 38) and subpart D of part 208 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
[57 FR 44888, Sept. 29, 1992, as amended at 63 FR 58621, Nov. 2, 1998]
§ 263.202
Directives to take prompt regulatory action.
(a)
Notice of intent to issue directive
—(1)
In general.
The Board shall provide an undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapitalized state member bank or, where appropriate, any company that controls the bank, prior written notice of the Board's intention to issue a directive requiring such bank or company to take actions or to follow proscriptions described in section 38 that are within the Board's discretion to require or impose under section 38 of the FDI Act, including sections 38(e)(5), (f)(2), (f)(3), or (f)(5). The bank shall have such time to respond to a proposed directive as provided by the Board under paragraph (c) of this section.
(2)
Immediate issuance of final directive.
If the Board finds it necessary in order to carry out the purposes of section 38 of the FDI Act, the Board may, without providing the notice prescribed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, issue a directive requiring a state member bank or any company that controls a state member bank immediately to take actions or to follow proscriptions described in section 38 that are within the Board's discretion to require or impose under section 38 of the FDI Act, including section 38(e)(5), (f)(2), (f)(3), or (f)(5). A bank or company that is subject to such an immediately effective directive may submit a written appeal of the directive to the Board. Such an appeal must be received by the Board within 14 calendar days of the issuance of the directive, unless the Board permits a longer period. The Board shall consider any such appeal, if filed in a timely matter, within 60 days of receiving the appeal. During such period of review, the directive shall remain in effect unless the Board, in its sole discretion, stays the effectiveness of the directive.
(b)
Contents of notice.
A notice of intention to issue a directive shall include:
(1) A statement of the bank's capital measures and capital levels;
(2) A description of the restrictions, prohibitions, or affirmative actions that the Board proposes to impose or require;
(3) The proposed date when such restrictions or prohibitions would be effective or the proposed date for completion of such affirmative actions; and
(4) The date by which the bank or company subject to the directive may file with the Board a written response to the notice.
(c)
Response to notice
—(1)
Time for response.
A bank or company may file a written response to a notice of intent to issue a directive within the time period set by the Board. The date shall be at least 14 calendar days from the date of the notice unless the Board determines that a shorter period is appropriate in light of the financial condition of the bank or other relevant circumstances.
(2)
Content of response.
The response should include:
(i) An explanation why the action proposed by the Board is not an appropriate exercise of discretion under section 38;
(ii) Any recommended modification of the proposed directive; and
(iii) Any other relevant information, mitigating circumstances, documentation, or other evidence in support of the position of the bank or company regarding the proposed directive.
(d)
Board consideration of response.
After considering the response, the Board may:
(1) Issue the directive as proposed or in modified form;
(2) Determine not to issue the directive and so notify the bank or company; or
(3) Seek additional information or clarification of the response from the bank or company, or any other relevant source.
(e)
Failure to file response.
Failure by a bank or company to file with the Board, within the specified time period, a written response to a proposed directive shall constitute a waiver of the opportunity to respond and shall constitute consent to the issuance of the directive.
(f)
Request for modification or rescission of directive.
Any bank or company that is subject to a directive under this subpart may, upon a change in circumstances, request in writing that the Board reconsider the terms of the directive, and may propose that the directive be rescinded or modified. Unless otherwise ordered by the Board, the directive shall continue in place while such request is pending before the Board.
§ 263.203
Procedures for reclassifying a state member bank based on criteria other than capital.
(a)
Reclassification based on unsafe or unsound condition or practice
—(1)
Issuance of notice of proposed reclassification
—(i)
Grounds for reclassification.
(A) Pursuant to § 208.43(c) of Regulation H (12 CFR 208.43(c)), the Board may reclassify a well capitalized bank as adequately capitalized or subject an adequately capitalized or undercapitalized institution to the supervisory actions applicable to the next lower capital category if:
(
1
) The Board determines that the bank is in unsafe or unsound condition; or
(
2
) The Board deems the bank to be engaged in an unsafe or unsound practice and not to have corrected the deficiency.
(B) Any action pursuant to this paragraph (a)(1)(i) shall hereinafter be referred to as “reclassification.”
(ii)
Prior notice to institution.
Prior to taking action pursuant to § 208.33(c) of this chapter, the Board shall issue and serve on the bank a written notice of the Board's intention to reclassify the bank.
(2)
Contents of notice.
A notice of intention to reclassify a bank based on unsafe or unsound condition shall include:
(i) A statement of the bank's capital measures and capital levels and the category to which the bank would be reclassified;
(ii) The reasons for reclassification of the bank;
(iii) The date by which the bank subject to the notice of reclassification may file with the Board a written appeal of the proposed reclassification and a request for a hearing, which shall be at least 14 calendar days from the date of service of the notice unless the Board determines that a shorter period is appropriate in light of the financial condition of the bank or other relevant circumstances.
(3)
Response to notice of proposed reclassification.
A bank may file a written response to a notice of proposed reclassification within the time period set by the Board. The response should include:
(i) An explanation of why the bank is not in unsafe or unsound condition or otherwise should not be reclassified;
(ii) Any other relevant information, mitigating circumstances, documentation, or other evidence in support of the position of the bank or company regarding the reclassification.
(4)
Failure to file response.
Failure by a bank to file, within the specified time period, a written response with the Board to a notice of proposed reclassification shall constitute a waiver of the opportunity to respond and shall constitute consent to the reclassification.
(5)
Request for hearing and presentation of oral testimony or witnesses.
The response may include a request for an informal hearing before the Board or its designee under this section. If the bank desires to present oral testimony or witnesses at the hearing, the bank shall include a request to do so with the request for an informal hearing. A request to present oral testimony or witnesses shall specify the names of the witnesses and the general nature of their expected testimony. Failure to request a hearing shall constitute a waiver of any right to a hearing, and failure to request the opportunity to present oral testimony or witnesses shall constitute a waiver of any right to present oral testimony or witnesses.
(6)
Order for informal hearing.
Upon receipt of a timely written request that includes a request for a hearing, the Board shall issue an order directing an informal hearing to commence no later than 30 days after receipt of the request, unless the bank requests a later date. The hearing shall be held in Washington, DC or at such other place as may be designated by the Board, before a presiding officer(s) designated by the Board to conduct the hearing.
(7)
Hearing procedures.
(i) The bank shall have the right to introduce relevant written materials and to present oral argument at the hearing. The bank may introduce oral testimony and present witnesses only if expressly authorized by the Board or the presiding officer(s). Neither the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 554-557) governing adjudications required by statute to be determined on the record nor the Uniform Rules of Practice and Procedure in subpart A of this part apply to an informal hearing under this section unless the Board orders that such procedures shall apply.
(ii) The informal hearing shall be recorded, and a transcript shall be furnished to the bank upon request and payment of the cost thereof. Witnesses need not be sworn, unless specifically requested by a party or the presiding officer(s). The presiding officer(s) may ask questions of any witness.
(iii) The presiding officer(s) may order that the hearing be continued for a reasonable period (normally five business days) following completion of oral testimony or argument to allow additional written submissions to the hearing record.
(8)
Recommendation of presiding officers.
Within 20 calendar days following the date the hearing and the record on the proceeding are closed, the presiding officer(s) shall make a recommendation to the Board on the reclassification.
(9)
Time for decision.
Not later than 60 calendar days after the date the record is closed or the date of the response in a case where no hearing was requested, the Board will decide whether to reclassify the bank and notify the bank of the Board's decision.
(b)
Request for rescission of reclassification.
Any bank that has been reclassified under this section, may, upon a change in circumstances, request in writing that the Board reconsider the reclassification, and may propose that the reclassification be rescinded and that any directives issued in connection with the reclassification be modified, rescinded, or removed. Unless otherwise ordered by the Board, the bank shall remain subject to the reclassification and to any directives issued in connection with that reclassification while such request is pending before the Board.
[57 FR 44888, Sept. 29, 1992, as amended at 63 FR 58621, Nov. 2, 1998]
§ 263.204
Order to dismiss a director or senior executive officer.
(a)
Service of notice.
When the Board issues and serves a directive on a state member bank pursuant to § 263.202 requiring the bank to dismiss from office any director or senior executive officer under section 38(f) (2) (F) (ii) of the FDI Act, the Board shall also serve a copy of the directive, or the relevant portions of the directive where appropriate, upon the person to be dismissed.
(b)
Response to directive
—(1)
Request for reinstatement.
A director or senior executive officer who has been served with a directive under paragraph (a) of this section (Respondent) may file a written request for reinstatement. The request for reinstatement shall be filed within 10 calendar days of the receipt of the directive by the Respondent, unless further time is allowed by the
Board at the request of the Respondent.
(2)
Contents of request; informal hearing.
The request for reinstatement shall include reasons why the Respondent should be reinstated, and may include a request for an informal hearing before the Board or its designee under this section. If the Respondent desires to present oral testimony or witnesses at the hearing, the Respondent shall include a request to do so with the request for an informal hearing. The request to present oral testimony or witnesses shall specify the names of the witnesses and the general nature of their expected testimony. Failure to request a hearing shall constitute a waiver of any right to a hearing and failure to request the opportunity to present oral testimony or witnesses shall constitute a waiver of any right or opportunity to present oral testimony or witnesses.
(3)
Effective date.
Unless otherwise ordered by the Board, the dismissal shall remain in effect while a request for reinstatement is pending.
(c)
Order for informal hearing.
Upon receipt of a timely written request from a Respondent for an informal hearing on the portion of a directive requiring a bank to dismiss from office any director or senior executive officer, the Board shall issue an order directing an informal hearing to commence no later than 30 days after receipt of the request, unless the Respondent requests a later date. The hearing shall be held in Washington, DC, or at such other place as may be designated by the Board, before a presiding officer(s) designated by the Board to conduct the hearing.
(d)
Hearing procedures.
(1) A Respondent may appear at the hearing personally or through counsel. A Respondent shall have the right to introduce relevant written materials and to present oral argument. A Respondent may introduce oral testimony and present witnesses only if expressly authorized by the Board or the presiding officer(s). Neither the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act governing adjudications required by statute to be determined on the record nor the Uniform Rules of Practice and Procedure in subpart A of this part apply to an informal hearing under this section unless the Board orders that such procedures shall apply.
(2) The informal hearing shall be recorded, and a transcript shall be furnished to the Respondent upon request and payment of the cost thereof. Witnesses need not be sworn, unless specifically requested by a party or the presiding officer(s). The presiding officer(s) may ask questions of any witness.
(3) The presiding officer(s) may order that the hearing be continued for a reasonable period (normally five business days) following completion of oral testimony or argument to allow additional written submissions to the hearing record.
(e)
Standard for review.
A Respondent shall bear the burden of demonstrating that his or her continued employment by or service with the bank would materially strengthen the bank's ability:
(1) To become adequately capitalized, to the extent that the directive was issued as a result of the bank's capital level or failure to submit or implement a capital restoration plan; and
(2) To correct the unsafe or unsound condition or unsafe or unsound practice, to the extent that the directive was issued as a result of classification of the bank based on supervisory criteria other than capital, pursuant to section 38(g) of the FDI Act.
(f)
Recommendation of presiding officers.
Within 20 calendar days following the date the hearing and the record on the proceeding are closed, the presiding officer(s) shall make a recommendation to the Board concerning the Respondent's request for reinstatement with the bank.
(g)
Time for decision.
Not later than 60 calendar days after the date the record is closed or the date of the response in a case where no hearing was requested, the Board shall grant or deny the request for reinstatement and notify the Respondent of the Board's decision. If the Board denies the request for reinstatement, the Board shall set forth in the notification the reasons for the Board's action.
§ 263.205
Enforcement of directives.
(a)
Judicial remedies.
Whenever a state member bank or company that controls a state member bank fails to comply with a directive issued under section 38, the Board may seek enforcement of the directive in the appropriate United States district court pursuant to section 8(i) (1) of the FDI Act.
(b)
Administrative remedies
—(1)
Failure to comply with directive.
Pursuant to section 8(i) (2) (A) of the FDI Act, the Board may assess a civil money penalty against any state member bank or company that controls a state member bank that violates or otherwise fails to comply with any final directive issued under section 38 and against any institution-affiliated party who participates in such violation or noncompliance.
(2)
Failure to implement capital restoration plan.
The failure of a bank to implement a capital restoration plan required under section 38, subpart D of Regulation H (12 CFR part 208, subpart D), or this subpart, or the failure of a company having control of a bank to fulfill a guarantee of a capital restoration plan made pursuant to section 38 (e) (2) of the FDI Act shall subject the bank or company to the assessment of civil money penalties pursuant to section 8(i) (2) (A) of the FDI Act.
(c)
Other enforcement action.
In addition to the actions described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the Board may seek enforcement of the provisions of section 38 or subpart B of Regulation H (12 CFR part 208, subpart B) through any other judicial or administrative proceeding authorized by law.
[57 FR 44888, Sept. 29, 1992, as amended at 63 FR 58621, Nov. 2, 1998]

# Subpart I—Submission and Review of Safety and Soundness Compliance Plans and Issuance of Orders To Correct Safety and Soundness Deficiencies

# Source:
60 FR 35682, July 10, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 263.300
Scope.
The rules and procedures set forth in this subpart apply to State member banks that are subject to the provisions of section 39 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (section 39) (12 U.S.C. 1831p-1).
§ 263.301
Purpose.
Section 39 of the FDI Act requires the Board to establish safety and soundness standards. Pursuant to section 39, a bank may be required to submit a compliance plan if it is not in compliance with a safety and soundness standard established by guideline under section 39(a) or (b). An enforceable order under section 8 may be issued if, after being notified that it is in violation of a safety and soundness standard established under section 39, the bank fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to implement an accepted plan. This subpart establishes procedures for requiring submission of a compliance plan and issuing an enforceable order pursuant to section 39.
§ 263.302
Determination and notification of failure to meet safety and soundness standard and request for compliance plan.
(a)
Determination.
The Board may, based upon an examination, inspection, or any other information that becomes available to the Board, determine that a bank has failed to satisfy the safety and soundness standards contained in the Interagency Guidelines Establishing Standards for Safety and Soundness or the Interagency Guidelines Establishing Standards for Safeguarding Customer Information, set forth in appendices D-1 and D-2 to part 208 of this chapter, respectively.
(b)
Request for compliance plan.
If the Board determines that a State member bank has failed a safety and soundness standard pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the Board may request, by letter or through a report of examination, the submission of a compliance plan, and the bank shall be deemed to have notice of the request three days after mailing of the letter by the Board
or delivery of the report of examination.
[60 FR 35682, July 10, 1995, as amended at 63 FR 55488, Oct. 15, 1998; 66 FR 8637, Feb. 1, 2001]
§ 263.303
Filing of safety and soundness compliance plan.
(a)
Schedule for filing compliance plan
—(1)
In general.
A State member bank shall file a written safety and soundness compliance plan with the Board within 30 days of receiving a request for a compliance plan pursuant to § 263.302(b), unless the Board notifies the bank in writing that the plan is to be filed within a different period.
(2)
Other plans.
If a State member bank is obligated to file, or is currently operating under, a capital restoration plan submitted pursuant to section 38 of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1831o), a cease-and-desist order entered into pursuant to section 8 of the FDI Act, a formal or informal agreement, or a response to a report of examination or report of inspection, it may, with the permission of the Board, submit a compliance plan under this section as part of that plan, order, agreement, or response, subject to the deadline provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b)
Contents of plan.
The compliance plan shall include a description of the steps the State member bank will take to correct the deficiency and the time within which those steps will be taken.
(c)
Review of safety and soundness compliance plans.
Within 30 days after receiving a safety and soundness compliance plan under this subpart, the Board shall provide written notice to the bank of whether the plan has been approved or seek additional information from the bank regarding the plan. The Board may extend the time within which notice regarding approval of a plan will be provided.
(d)
Failure to submit or implement a compliance plan
—(1)
Supervisory actions.
If a State member bank fails to submit an acceptable plan within the time specified by the Board or fails in any material respect to implement a compliance plan, then the Board shall, by order, require the bank to correct the deficiency and may take further actions provided in section 39(e)(2)(B). Pursuant to section 39(e)(3), the Board may be required to take certain actions if the bank commenced operations or experienced a change in control within the previous 24-month period, or the bank experienced extraordinary growth during the previous 18-month period.
(2)
Extraordinary growth.
For purposes of paragraph (d)(1) of this section,
extraordinary growth
means an increase in assets of more than 7.5 percent during any quarter within the 18-month period preceding the issuance of a request for submission of a compliance plan, by a bank that is not well capitalized for purposes of section 38 of the FDI Act. For purposes of calculating an increase in assets, assets acquired through merger or acquisition approved pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)) will be excluded.
(e)
Amendment of compliance plan.
A State member bank that has filed an approved compliance plan may, after prior written notice to and approval by the Board, amend the plan to reflect a change in circumstance. Until such time as a proposed amendment has been approved, the bank shall implement the compliance plan as previously approved.
§ 263.304
Issuance of orders to correct deficiencies and to take or refrain from taking other actions.
(a)
Notice of intent to issue order
—(1)
In general.
The Board shall provide a bank prior written notice of the Board's intention to issue an order requiring the bank to correct a safety and soundness deficiency or to take or refrain from taking other actions pursuant to section 39 of the FDI Act. The bank shall have such time to respond to a proposed order as provided by the Board under paragraph (c) of this section.
(2)
Immediate issuance of final order.
If the Board finds it necessary in order to carry out the purposes of section 39 of the FDI Act, the Board may, without providing the notice prescribed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, issue an order requiring a bank immediately to take actions to correct a safety and soundness deficiency or take or refrain from taking other actions pursuant to section 39. A State member bank that
is subject to such an immediately effective order may submit a written appeal of the order to the Board. Such an appeal must be received by the Board within 14 calendar days of the issuance of the order, unless the Board permits a longer period. The Board shall consider any such appeal, if filed in a timely matter, within 60 days of receiving the appeal. During such period of review, the order shall remain in effect unless the Board, in its sole discretion, stays the effectiveness of the order.
(b)
Contents of notice.
A notice of intent to issue an order shall include:
(1) A statement of the safety and soundness deficiency or deficiencies that have been identified at the bank;
(2) A description of any restrictions, prohibitions, or affirmative actions that the Board proposes to impose or require;
(3) The proposed date when such restrictions or prohibitions would be effective or the proposed date for completion of any required action; and
(4) The date by which the bank subject to the order may file with the Board a written response to the notice.
(c)
Response to notice
—(1)
Time for response.
A bank may file a written response to a notice of intent to issue an order within the time period set by the Board. Such a response must be received by the Board within 14 calendar days from the date of the notice unless the Board determines that a different period is appropriate in light of the safety and soundness of the bank or other relevant circumstances.
(2)
Contents of response.
The response should include:
(i) An explanation why the action proposed by the Board is not an appropriate exercise of discretion under section 39;
(ii) Any recommended modification of the proposed order; and
(iii) Any other relevant information, mitigating circumstances, documentation, or other evidence in support of the position of the bank regarding the proposed order.
(d)
Agency consideration of response.
After considering the response, the Board may:
(1) Issue the order as proposed or in modified form;
(2) Determine not to issue the order and so notify the bank; or
(3) Seek additional information or clarification of the response from the bank, or any other relevant source.
(e)
Failure to file response.
Failure by a bank to file with the Board, within the specified time period, a written response to a proposed order shall constitute a waiver of the opportunity to respond and shall constitute consent to the issuance of the order.
(f)
Request for modification or rescission of order.
Any bank that is subject to an order under this subpart may, upon a change in circumstances, request in writing that the Board reconsider the terms of the order, and may propose that the order be rescinded or modified. Unless otherwise ordered by the Board, the order shall continue in place while such request is pending before the Board.
§ 263.305
Enforcement of orders.
(a)
Judicial remedies.
Whenever a State member bank fails to comply with an order issued under section 39, the Board may seek enforcement of the order in the appropriate United States district court pursuant to section 8(i)(1) of the FDI Act.
(b)
Failure to comply with order.
Pursuant to section 8(i)(2)(A) of the FDI Act, the Board may assess a civil money penalty against any State member bank that violates or otherwise fails to comply with any final order issued under section 39 and against any institution-affiliated party who participates in such violation or noncompliance.
(c)
Other enforcement action.
In addition to the actions described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the Board may seek enforcement of the provisions of section 39 or this part through any other judicial or administrative proceeding authorized by law.

# Subpart J—Removal, Suspension, and Debarment of Accountants From Performing Audit Services

# Source:
68 FR 48267, Aug. 13, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 263.400
Scope.
This subpart, which implements section 36(g)(4) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA)(12 U.S.C. 1831m(g)(4)), provides rules and procedures for the removal, suspension, or debarment of independent public accountants and their accounting firms from performing independent audit and attestation services for insured state member banks, bank holding companies, and savings and loan holding companies required by section 36 of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1831m).
[68 FR 48267, Aug. 13, 2003, as amended at 76 FR 56605, Sept. 13, 2011]
§ 263.401
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, the following terms shall have the meaning given below unless the context requires otherwise:
(a)
Accounting firm
means a corporation, proprietorship, partnership, or other business firm providing audit services.
(b)
Audit services
means any service required to be performed by an independent public accountant by section 36 of the FDIA and 12 CFR part 363, including attestation services. Audit services include any service performed with respect to the holding company of an insured bank that is used to satisfy requirements imposed by section 36 or part 363 on that bank.
(c)
Banking organization
means an insured state member bank, bank holding company, or savings and loan holding company that obtains audit services that are used to satisfy requirements imposed by section 36 or part 363 on an insured subsidiary bank or insured savings association of that holding company.
(d)
Independent public accountant
(accountant) means any individual who performs or participates in providing audit services.
[56 FR 38052, Aug. 9, 1991, as amended at 76 FR 56605, Sept. 13, 2011]
§ 263.402
Removal, suspension, or debarment.
(a)
Good cause for removal, suspension, or debarment
—(1)
Individuals.
The Board may remove, suspend, or debar an independent public accountant from performing audit services for banking organizations that are subject to section 36 of the FDIA, if, after notice of and opportunity for hearing in the matter, the Board finds that the accountant:
(i) Lacks the requisite qualifications to perform audit services;
(ii) Has knowingly or recklessly engaged in conduct that results in a violation of applicable professional standards, including those standards and conflict of interest provisions applicable to accountants through the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Pub. L. 107-204, 116 Stat. 745 (2002) (Sarbanes-Oxley Act), and developed by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission;
(iii) Has engaged in negligent conduct in the form of:
(A) A single instance of highly unreasonable conduct that results in a violation of applicable professional standards in circumstances in which an accountant knows, or should know, that heightened scrutiny is warranted; or
(B) Repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to perform audit services;
(iv) Has knowingly or recklessly given false or misleading information, or knowingly or recklessly participated in any way in the giving of false or misleading information, to the Board or any officer or employee of the Board;
(v) Has engaged in, or aided and abetted, a material and knowing or reckless violation of any provision of the Federal banking or securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder, or any other law;
(vi) Has been removed, suspended, or debarred from practice before any Federal or state agency regulating the banking, insurance, or securities industries, other than by an action listed in § 263.403, on grounds relevant to the provision of audit services; or
(vii) Is suspended or debarred for cause from practice as an accountant by any duly constituted licensing authority of any state, possession, commonwealth, or the District of Columbia.
(2)
Accounting firms.
If the Board determines that there is good cause for the removal, suspension, or debarment of a member or employee of an accounting firm under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Board also may remove, suspend, or debar such firm or one or more offices of such firm. In considering whether to remove, suspend, or debar a firm or an office thereof, and the term of any sanction against a firm under this section, the Board may consider, for example:
(i) The gravity, scope, or repetition of the act or failure to act that constitutes good cause for removal, suspension, or debarment;
(ii) The adequacy of, and adherence to, applicable policies, practices, or procedures for the accounting firm's conduct of its business and the performance of audit services;
(iii) The selection, training, supervision, and conduct of members or employees of the accounting firm involved in the performance of audit services;
(iv) The extent to which managing partners or senior officers of the accounting firm have participated, directly, or indirectly through oversight or review, in the act or failure to act; and
(v) The extent to which the accounting firm has, since the occurrence of the act or failure to act, implemented corrective internal controls to prevent its recurrence.
(3)
Limited scope orders.
An order of removal, suspension (including an immediate suspension), or debarment may, at the discretion of the Board, be made applicable to a particular banking organization or class of banking organizations.
(4)
Remedies not exclusive.
The remedies provided in this subpart are in addition to any other remedies the Board may have under any other applicable provisions of law, rule, or regulation.
(b)
Proceedings to remove, suspend, or debar
—(1)
Initiation of formal removal, suspension, or debarment proceedings.
The Board may initiate a proceeding to remove, suspend, or debar an accountant or accounting firm from performing audit services by issuing a written notice of intention to take such action that names the individual or firm as a respondent and describes the nature of the conduct that constitutes good cause for such action.
(2)
Hearing under paragraph (b) of this section.
An accountant or firm named as a respondent in the notice issued under paragraph (b)(1) of this section may request a hearing on the allegations in the notice. Hearings conducted under this paragraph shall be conducted in the same manner as other hearings under the Uniform Rules of Practice and Procedure (12 CFR part 263, subpart A).
(c)
Immediate suspension from performing audit services
—(1)
In general.
If the Board serves a written notice of intention to remove, suspend, or debar an accountant or accounting firm from performing audit services, the Board may, with due regard for the public interest and without a preliminary hearing, immediately suspend such accountant or firm from performing audit services for banking organizations, if the Board:
(i) Has a reasonable basis to believe that the accountant or firm has engaged in conduct (specified in the notice served on the accountant or firm under paragraph (b) of this section) that would constitute grounds for removal, suspension, or debarment under paragraph (a) of this section;
(ii) Determines that immediate suspension is necessary to avoid immediate harm to an insured depository institution or its depositors or to the depository system as a whole; and
(iii) Serves such respondent with written notice of the immediate suspension.
(2)
Procedures.
An immediate suspension notice issued under this paragraph will become effective upon service. Such suspension will remain in effect until the date the Board dismisses the charges contained in the notice of intention, or the effective date of a final order of removal, suspension, or debarment issued by the Board to the respondent.
(3)
Petition to stay.
Any accountant or firm immediately suspended from performing audit services in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section may, within 10 calendar days after service of the notice of immediate suspension, file with the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System, Washington, DC 20551 for a stay of such immediate suspension. If no petition is filed within 10 calendar days, the immediate suspension shall remain in effect.
(4)
Hearing on petition.
Upon receipt of a stay petition, the Secretary will designate a presiding officer who shall fix a place and time (not more than 10 calendar days after receipt of the petition, unless extended at the request of petitioner) at which the immediately suspended party may appear, personally or through counsel, to submit written materials and oral argument. Any Board employee engaged in investigative or prosecuting functions for the Board in a case may not, in that or a factually related case, serve as a presiding officer or participate or advise in the decision of the presiding officer or of the Board, except as witness or counsel in the proceeding. In the sole discretion of the presiding officer, upon a specific showing of compelling need, oral testimony of witnesses may also be presented. In hearings held pursuant to this paragraph there shall be no discovery and the provisions of §§ 263.6 through 263.12, 263.16, and 263.21 of this part shall apply.
(5)
Decision on petition.
Within 30 calendar days after the hearing, the presiding officer shall issue a decision. The presiding officer will grant a stay upon a demonstration that a substantial likelihood exists of the respondent's success on the issues raised by the notice of intention and that, absent such relief, the respondent will suffer immediate and irreparable injury, loss, or damage. In the absence of such a demonstration, the presiding officer will notify the parties that the immediate suspension will be continued pending the completion of the administrative proceedings pursuant to the notice.
(6)
Review of presiding officer's decision.
The parties may seek review of the presiding officer's decision by filing a petition for review with the presiding officer within 10 calendar days after service of the decision. Replies must be filed within 10 calendar days after the petition filing date. Upon receipt of a petition for review and any reply, the presiding officer shall promptly certify the entire record to the Board. Within 60 calendar days of the presiding officer's certification, the Board shall issue an order notifying the affected party whether or not the immediate suspension should be continued or reinstated. The order shall state the basis of the Board's decision.
§ 263.403
Automatic removal, suspension, and debarment.
(a) An independent public accountant or accounting firm may not perform audit services for banking organizations if the accountant or firm:
(1) Is subject to a final order of removal, suspension, or debarment (other than a limited scope order) issued by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or the Office of Thrift Supervision under section 36 of the FDIA;
(2) Is subject to a temporary suspension or permanent revocation of registration or a temporary or permanent suspension or bar from further association with any registered public accounting firm issued by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board or the Securities and Exchange Commission under sections 105(c)(4)(A) or (B) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (15 U.S.C. 7215(c)(4)(A) or (B)); or
(3) Is subject to an order of suspension or denial of the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(b) Upon written request, the Board, for good cause shown, may grant written permission to such accountant or firm to perform audit services for banking organizations. The request shall contain a concise statement of the action requested. The Board may require the applicant to submit additional information.
§ 263.404
Notice of removal, suspension, or debarment.
(a)
Notice to the public.
Upon the issuance of a final order for removal, suspension, or debarment of an independent public accountant or accounting firm from providing audit services, the Board shall make the order publicly available and provide notice of the order to the other Federal banking agencies.
(b)
Notice to the Board by accountants and firms.
An accountant or accounting firm that provides audit services to a banking organization must provide the Board with written notice of:
(1) Any currently effective order or other action described in § 263.402(a)(1)(vi) through (a)(1)(vii) or § 263.403(a)(2) through (a)(3); and
(2) Any currently effective action by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board under sections 105(c)(4)(C) or (G) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (15 U.S.C. 7215(c)(4)(C) or (G)).
(c)
Timing of notice.
Written notice required by this paragraph shall be given no later than 15 calendar days following the effective date of an order or action, or 15 calendar days before an accountant or firm accepts an engagement to provide audit services, whichever date is earlier.
§ 263.405
Petition for reinstatement.
(a)
Form of petition.
Unless otherwise ordered by the Board, a petition for reinstatement by an independent public accountant, an accounting firm, or an office of a firm that was removed, suspended, or debarred under § 263.402 may be made in writing at any time. The request shall contain a concise statement of the action requested. The Board may require the petitioner to submit additional information.
(b)
Procedure.
A petitioner for reinstatement under this section may, in the sole discretion of the Board, be afforded a hearing. The accountant or firm shall bear the burden of going forward with a petition and proving the grounds asserted in support of the petition. The Board may, in its sole discretion, direct that any reinstatement proceeding be limited to written submissions. The removal, suspension, or debarment shall continue until the Board, for good cause shown, has reinstated the petitioner or until the suspension period has expired. The filing of a petition for reinstatement shall not stay the effectiveness of the removal, suspension, or debarment of an accountant or firm.

# Subpart K—Formal Investigative Proceedings

# Source:
88 FR 89921, Dec. 28, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 263.450
Scope.
(a) The procedures of this subpart must be followed when a formal investigation is instituted and conducted pursuant to: section 8(n) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1818(n)); section 10(c) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1820(c)); section 7(j)(15) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1817(j)(15)); section 5(f) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1844(f)); sections 10(b)(4) and 10(g)(2) of HOLA (12 U.S.C. 1464(b)(4) and 1467a(g)(2)); or section 162 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5362).
(b) Nothing in this subpart prohibits the Board from conducting informal investigations or obtaining information by any means other than a subpoena issued pursuant to this subpart.
(c) This subpart does not apply to adjudicatory proceedings as to which hearings are required by statute, the rules for which are contained in part 262 of this chapter and subpart A of this part.
§ 263.451
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
(a)
Formal investigative proceeding
means an investigation conducted pursuant to an order of investigation as provided in § 263.452(a).
(b)
Designated representative
means the person or persons empowered by the Board or by the General Counsel or his or her designees in accordance with 12 CFR 265.6 to conduct a formal investigative proceeding.
§ 263.452
Conduct of a formal investigative proceeding.
(a) A formal investigative proceeding may be initiated upon issuance of an order of investigation by the Board or by the General Counsel or his or her designees in accordance with 12 CFR 265.6. The order of investigation must indicate the purpose of the formal investigative proceeding and designate the Board's representatives to direct the conduct of the investigation.
(b) Any person who is compelled or requested to furnish documentary evidence or testimony at a formal investigative proceeding may, upon request, inspect a copy of the order of investigation at a time and place that the Board's designated representative determines to be appropriate. Any person who is compelled or requested to furnish documentary evidence or testimony in a formal investigative proceeding may not refuse to comply with a subpoena on the grounds that the order of investigation was not made available in advance of the date of production or testimony set forth in a subpoena.
(c) Copies of an order of investigation may not be produced to or retained by any person except with the express written approval of the Board officer supervising the investigation. The Board may provide a copy of an order of investigation, in whole or in part, if the Board officer concludes, in the officer's discretion, that disclosure of the order of investigation would not infringe upon the privacy of persons involved in the investigation or impede the conduct of the investigation.
§ 263.453
Powers of the designated representative.
The designated representative conducting the formal investigative proceeding will have the power to administer oaths and affirmations, to take and preserve testimony under oath, to issue subpoenas
ad testificandum
and subpoenas
duces tecum
and to apply for their enforcement to the United States District Court for the judicial district or the United States court in any territory in which the witness or company subpoenaed resides or conducts business, or such other judicial district provided by law.
§ 263.454
Confidentiality of proceedings.
Formal investigative proceedings conducted pursuant to this subpart are confidential and, unless otherwise ordered or permitted by the Board, or required by law, the entire record of any formal investigative proceeding, including the order of investigation authorizing the proceeding, the transcripts of such proceeding, and all documents and information obtained by the designated representative(s) during the course of the formal investigative proceeding will be confidential. If the Board issues a notice of charges or otherwise initiates an administrative (adjudicatory) hearing, disclosure of documents and information obtained by the Board's designated representative(s) during the course of the formal investigative proceeding will be governed by the Uniform Rules and the Board Local Rules Supplementing the Uniform Rules (subparts A and B of this part).
§ 263.455
Transcripts.
(a) Transcripts of testimony, if any, must be recorded by an official reporter, or by any other person or means designated by the designated representative conducting the investigation.
(b) Transcripts will be treated as confidential and must not be disclosed to any party except as provided in this subpart or as otherwise ordered or permitted by the Board, or required by law or regulation.
§ 263.456
Rights of witnesses.
(a) Any witness in a formal investigative proceeding may be accompanied and advised by an attorney personally representing that witness.
(1) Such attorney must be a member in good standing of the bar of any state, Commonwealth, possession, territory, or the District of Columbia, who has not been suspended or debarred from practice before the Board in accordance with any provision of this part, including paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(2) Such attorney may advise the witness before, during, and after the taking of the witness' testimony and may briefly question the witness, on the record, at the conclusion of the witness' testimony, for the sole purpose of clarifying any of the answers the witness has given. During the taking of the testimony of a witness, such attorney may make summary notes solely for the attorney's use in representing the witness. Neither the attorney nor witness may retain copies of exhibits used or introduced in the course of a witness' testimony.
(3) All witnesses must be sequestered, and, unless permitted in the discretion of the designated representative, no witness or accompanying attorney may be present during the taking of testimony of any other witness called in such formal investigative proceeding. Attorneys for any other interested persons or entities will not, unless permitted in the discretion of the designated representative, have a right to be present during the testimony of any witness not personally being represented by such attorneys.
(4) The Board, for good cause, may exclude a particular attorney from further participation in any formal investigative proceeding in which the Board has found the attorney to have engaged in dilatory, obstructionist, egregious, contemptuous, or contumacious conduct. The designated representative conducting the formal investigative proceeding may report to the Board instances of apparently dilatory, obstructionist, egregious, contemptuous, or contumacious conduct on the part of an attorney. After due notice to the attorney, the Board may take such action as the circumstances warrant, including suspending any attorney representing a witness from further participation in the investigative proceeding, based upon a written record evidencing the conduct of the attorney in the formal investigative proceeding or such other or additional written or oral presentation as the Board may permit or direct.
(b) A witness may inspect the transcript of the witness' own testimony, without retaining a copy thereof, for the purpose of making non-substantive corrections to the transcript at a time and place that the designated representative determines to be appropriate in consideration of all relevant factors, including the convenience of the witness.
(c) A witness may, solely for the use of the witness and the witness' attorney, obtain a copy of the transcript of the witness' testimony, provided that the witness submits a written request for the transcript and the witness requesting a copy of the witness' testimony bears the cost thereof. However, the Board officer supervising the formal investigative proceeding may deny such a request if, in the officer's discretion, the provision of the transcript may infringe the privacy of third persons involved in the investigation, or impede or interfere with the conduct of any investigation. If the Board issues a notice of charges or otherwise initiates an administrative (adjudicatory) hearing, disclosure of formal investigative transcripts obtained by the Board's designated representative(s) during the course of the formal investigative proceeding will be governed by the Uniform Rules and the Board Local Rules Supplementing the Uniform Rules (subparts A and B of this part).
§ 263.457
Subpoenas.
(a)
Service.
Service of a subpoena may be made:
(1) By personal service;
(2) If the person to be served is an individual, by delivery to a person of suitable age and discretion at the physical location where the individual resides or works;
(3) By delivery to an agent which, in the case of a corporation or other association, is delivery to an officer, director, managing or general agent, or to any other agent authorized by appointment or by law to receive service and, if the agent is one authorized by statute to receive service and the statute so requires, by also mailing a copy to the party;
(4) By registered or certified mail or by an express delivery service addressed to the person's or authorized agent's last known address; or
(5) In such other manner as is reasonably calculated to give actual notice.
(b)
Area of service.
Service in any state, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, on any person or company doing business in any state, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, or on any person as otherwise provided by law, is effective without regard to the place where the hearing or testimony is held, provided that if service is made on a foreign bank in connection with an action or proceeding involving one or more of its branches or agencies located in any state, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, service must be made on at
least one branch or agency so involved. Foreign nationals are subject to such subpoenas if such service is made upon a duly authorized agent located in the United States or such other means permissible by law.
(c)
Witness fees and mileage.
Witnesses summoned in any proceeding under this subpart must be paid the same fees and mileage that are paid witnesses in the district courts of the United States. Such fees and mileage need not be tendered when the subpoena is issued on behalf of the Board by any of its designated representatives.
Pt. 263, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 263—Rules Applicable to Proceedings Initiated Before April 1, 2024

# Source:
88 FR 89923, Dec. 28, 2023, unless otherwise noted.

# Note:
The content of this appendix reproduces the Uniform Rules of Practice and Procedure and Board Local Rules Supplementing the Uniform Rules in 12 CFR part 263, subparts A and B, respectively, as of April 1, 2024, and apply only to adjudicatory proceedings initiated before April 1, 2024. Proceedings initiated on or after April 1, 2024, are not governed by the version of the rules set out in this appendix. Cross-references to part 263 (as well as to included sections) in this appendix are to those provisions as contained within this appendix.

# Subpart A—Uniform Rules of Practice and Procedure
263.1 Scope.
263.2 Rules of construction.
263.3 Definitions.
263.4 Authority of the Board.
263.5 Authority of the administrative law judge.
263.6 Appearance and practice in adjudicatory proceedings.
263.7 Good faith certification.
263.8 Conflicts of interest.
263.9 Ex parte communications.
263.10 Filing of papers.
263.11 Service of papers.
263.12 Construction of time limits.
263.13 Change of time limits.
263.14 Witness fees and expenses.
263.15 Opportunity for informal settlement.
263.16 The Board's right to conduct examination.
263.17 Collateral attacks on adjudicatory proceeding.
263.18 Commencement of proceeding and contents of notice.
263.19 Answer.
263.21 Failure to appear.
263.22 Consolidation and severance of actions.
263.23 Motions.
263.24 Scope of document discovery.
263.25 Request for document discovery from parties.
263.26 Document subpoenas to nonparties.
263.27 Deposition of witness unavailable for hearing.
263.28 Interlocutory review.
263.29 Summary disposition.
263.30 Partial summary disposition.
263.31 Scheduling and prehearing conferences.
263.32 Prehearing submissions.
263.33 Public hearings.
263.34 Hearing subpoenas.
263.35 Conduct of hearings.
263.36 Evidence.
263.37 Post-hearing filings.
263.38 Recommended decision and filing of record.
263.39 Exceptions to recommended decision.
263.40 Review by the Board.
263.41 Stays pending judicial review.

# Subpart B—Board Local Rules Supplementing Uniform Rules
263.50 Purpose and scope.
263.51 Definitions.
263.52 Address for filing.
263.53 Discovery depositions.
263.54 Delegation to the Office of Financial Institution Adjudication.
263.55 Board as Presiding Officer.
263.56 Initial licensing proceedings.
Subpart A—Uniform Rules of Practice and Procedure
§ 263.1 Scope.
This subpart prescribes Uniform Rules of practice and procedure applicable to adjudicatory proceedings required to be conducted on the record after opportunity for hearing under the following statutory provisions:
(a) Cease-and-desist proceedings under section 8(b) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (“FDIA”) (12 U.S.C. 1818(b));
(b) Removal and prohibition proceedings under section 8(e) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1818(e));
(c) Change-in-control proceedings under section 7(j)(4) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1817(j)(4)) to determine whether the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Board”) should issue an order to approve or disapprove a person's proposed acquisition of a state member bank, bank holding company, or savings and loan holding company;
(d) Proceedings under section 15C(c)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) (15 U.S.C. 78o-5), to impose sanctions upon any government securities
broker or dealer or upon any person associated or seeking to become associated with a government securities broker or dealer for which the Board is the appropriate agency;
(e) Assessment of civil money penalties by the Board against institutions, institution-affiliated parties, and certain other persons for which the Board is the appropriate agency for any violation of:
(1) Any provision of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (“BHC Act”), or any order or regulation issued thereunder, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1847(b) and (d);
(2) Sections 19, 22, 23, 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act (“FRA”), or any regulation or order issued thereunder and certain unsafe or unsound practices or breaches of fiduciary duty, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 504 and 505;
(3) Section 9 of the FRA pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 324;
(4) Section 106(b) of the Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970 and certain unsafe or unsound practices or breaches of fiduciary duty, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1972(2)(F);
(5) Any provision of the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, or any regulation or order issued thereunder and certain unsafe or unsound practices or breaches of fiduciary duty, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1817(j)(16);
(6) Any provision of the International Lending Supervision Act of 1983 (“ILSA”) or any rule, regulation or order issued thereunder, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 3909;
(7) Any provision of the International Banking Act of 1978 (“IBA”) or any rule, regulation or order issued thereunder, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 3108;
(8) Certain provisions of the Exchange Act, pursuant to section 21B of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78u-2);
(9) Section 1120 of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3349), or any order or regulation issued thereunder;
(10) The terms of any final or temporary order issued under section 8 of the FDIA or of any written agreement executed by the Board, the terms of any condition imposed in writing by the Board in connection with the grant of an application or request, and certain unsafe or unsound practices or breaches of fiduciary duty or law or regulation pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1818(i)(2);
(11) Any provision of law referenced in section 102(f) of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4012a(f)) or any order or regulation issued thereunder;
(12) Any provision of law referenced in 31 U.S.C. 5321 or any order or regulation issued thereunder;
(13) Section 5 of the Home Owners' Loan Act (“HOLA”) or any regulation or order issued thereunder, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1464 (d), (s) and (v);
(14) Section 9 of the HOLA or any regulation or order issued thereunder, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1467(d); and
(15) Section 10 of the HOLA, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1467a (i) and (r);
(f) Remedial action under section 102(g) of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4012a(g));
(g) Removal, prohibition, and civil monetary penalty proceedings under section 10(k) of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1820(k)) for violations of the special post-employment restrictions imposed by that section; and
(h) This subpart also applies to all other adjudications required by statute to be determined on the record after opportunity for an agency hearing, unless otherwise specifically provided for in the Local Rules.
§ 263.2 Rules of construction.
For purposes of this subpart:
(a) Any term in the singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular, if such use would be appropriate;
(b) Any use of a masculine, feminine, or neuter gender encompasses all three, if such use would be appropriate;
(c) The term
counsel
includes a non-attorney representative; and
(d) Unless the context requires otherwise, a party's counsel of record, if any, may, on behalf of that party, take any action required to be taken by the party.
§ 263.3 Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart, unless explicitly stated to the contrary:
(a)
Administrative law judge
means one who presides at an administrative hearing under authority set forth at 5 U.S.C. 556.
(b)
Adjudicatory proceeding
means a proceeding conducted pursuant to these rules and leading to the formulation of a final order other than a regulation.
(c)
Decisional employee
means any member of the Board's or administrative law judge's staff who has not engaged in an investigative or prosecutorial role in a proceeding and who may assist the Agency or the administrative law judge, respectively, in preparing orders, recommended decisions, decisions, and other documents under the Uniform Rules.
(d)
Enforcement Counsel
means any individual who files a notice of appearance as counsel on behalf of the Board in an adjudicatory proceeding.
(e)
Final order
means an order issued by the Board with or without the consent of the affected institution or the institution-affiliated party, that has become final, without regard to the pendency of any petition for reconsideration or review.
(f)
Institution
includes: (1) Any bank as that term is defined in section 3(a) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1813(a));
(2) Any bank holding company or any subsidiary (other than a bank) of a bank holding company as those terms are defined in the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1841
et seq.
);
(3) Any organization operating under section 25 of the FRA (12 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
);
(4) Any foreign bank or company to which section 8 of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3106), applies or any subsidiary (other than a bank) thereof;
(5) Any Federal agency as that term is defined in section 1(b) of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3101(5)); and
(6) Any savings and loan holding company or any subsidiary (other than a savings association) of a savings and loan holding company as those terms are defined in the HOLA (12 U.S.C. 1461
et seq.
).
(g)
Institution-affiliated party
means any institution-affiliated party as that term is defined in section 3(u) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1813(u)).
(h)
Local Rules
means those rules promulgated by the Board in this part other than subpart A.
(i)
OFIA
means the Office of Financial Institution Adjudication, the executive body charged with overseeing the administration of administrative enforcement proceedings for the Board, the Office of Comptroller of the Currency (the
OCC
), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the
FDIC
), and the National Credit Union Administration (the
NCUA
).
(j)
Party
means the Board and any person named as a party in any notice.
(k)
Person
means an individual, sole proprietor, partnership, corporation, unincorporated association, trust, joint venture, pool, syndicate, agency or other entity or organization, including an institution as defined in paragraph (f) of this section.
(l)
Respondent
means any party other than the Board.
(m)
Uniform Rules
means those rules in subpart A of this part that are common to the Board, the OCC, the FDIC, and the NCUA.
(n)
Violation
includes any action (alone or with another or others) for or toward causing, bringing about, participating in, counseling, or aiding or abetting a violation.
§ 263.4 Authority of the Board.
The Board may, at any time during the pendency of a proceeding, perform, direct the performance of, or waive performance of, any act which could be done or ordered by the administrative law judge.
§ 263.5 Authority of the administrative law judge.
(a)
General rule.
All proceedings governed by this part shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of chapter 5 of title 5 of the United States Code. The administrative law judge shall have all powers necessary to conduct a proceeding in a fair and impartial manner and to avoid unnecessary delay.
(b)
Powers.
The administrative law judge shall have all powers necessary to conduct the proceeding in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, including the following powers:
(1) To administer oaths and affirmations;
(2) To issue subpoenas, subpoenas duces tecum, and protective orders, as authorized by this part, and to quash or modify any such subpoenas and orders;
(3) To receive relevant evidence and to rule upon the admission of evidence and offers of proof;
(4) To take or cause depositions to be taken as authorized by this subpart;
(5) To regulate the course of the hearing and the conduct of the parties and their counsel;
(6) To hold scheduling and/or pre-hearing conferences as set forth in § 263.31;
(7) To consider and rule upon all procedural and other motions appropriate in an adjudicatory proceeding, provided that only the Board shall have the power to grant any motion to dismiss the proceeding or to decide any other motion that results in a final determination of the merits of the proceeding;
(8) To prepare and present to the Board a recommended decision as provided herein;
(9) To recuse himself or herself by motion made by a party or on his or her own motion;
(10) To establish time, place and manner limitations on the attendance of the public and the media for any public hearing; and
(11) To do all other things necessary and appropriate to discharge the duties of a presiding officer.
§ 263.6 Appearance and practice in adjudicatory proceedings.
(a)
Appearance before the Board or an administrative law judge
—(1)
By attorneys.
Any member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any state, commonwealth, possession, territory of the United States, or the District of Columbia may represent others before the Board if such attorney is not currently suspended or debarred from practice before the Board.
(2)
By non-attorneys.
An individual may appear on his or her own behalf; a member of a partnership may represent the partnership; a duly authorized officer, director, or employee of any government unit, agency, institution, corporation or authority may represent that unit, agency, institution, corporation or authority if such officer, director, or employee is not currently suspended or debarred from practice before the Board.
(3)
Notice of appearance.
Any individual acting as counsel on behalf of a party, including the Board, shall file a notice of appearance with OFIA at or before the time that individual submits papers or otherwise appears
on behalf of a party in the adjudicatory proceeding. The notice of appearance must include a written declaration that the individual is currently qualified as provided in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section and is authorized to represent the particular party. By filing a notice of appearance on behalf of a party in an adjudicatory proceeding, the counsel agrees and represents that he or she is authorized to accept service on behalf of the represented party and that, in the event of withdrawal from representation, he or she will, if required by the administrative law judge, continue to accept service until new counsel has filed a notice of appearance or until the represented party indicates that he or she will proceed on a
pro se
basis.
(b)
Sanctions.
Dilatory, obstructionist, egregious, contemptuous or contumacious conduct at any phase of any adjudicatory proceeding may be grounds for exclusion or suspension of counsel from the proceeding.
§ 263.7 Good faith certification.
(a)
General requirement.
Every filing or submission of record following the issuance of a notice shall be signed by at least one counsel of record in his or her individual name and shall state that counsel's address and telephone number. A party who acts as his or her own counsel shall sign his or her individual name and state his or her address and telephone number on every filing or submission of record.
(b)
Effect of signature.
(1) The signature of counsel or a party shall constitute a certification that: the counsel or party has read the filing or submission of record; to the best of his or her knowledge, information, and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the filing or submission of record is well-grounded in fact and is warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law; and the filing or submission of record is not made for any improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation.
(2) If a filing or submission of record is not signed, the administrative law judge shall strike the filing or submission of record, unless it is signed promptly after the omission is called to the attention of the pleader or movant.
(c)
Effect of making oral motion or argument.
The act of making any oral motion or oral argument by any counsel or party constitutes a certification that to the best of his or her knowledge, information, and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, his or her statement is well-grounded in fact and is warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law, and is not made for any improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation.
§ 263.8 Conflicts of interest.
(a)
Conflict of interest in representation.
No person shall appear as counsel for another person in an adjudicatory proceeding if it reasonably appears that such representation may be materially limited by that counsel's responsibilities to a third person or by the counsel's own interests. The administrative law judge may take corrective measures at any stage of a proceeding to cure a conflict of interest in representation, including the issuance of an order limiting the scope of representation or disqualifying an individual from appearing in a representative capacity for the duration of the proceeding.
(b)
Certification and waiver.
If any person appearing as counsel represents two or more parties to an adjudicatory proceeding or also represents a non-party on a matter relevant to an issue in the proceeding, counsel must certify in writing at the time of filing the notice of appearance required by § 263.6(a):
(1) That the counsel has personally and fully discussed the possibility of conflicts of interest with each such party and non-party; and
(2) That each such party and non-party waives any right it might otherwise have had to assert any known conflicts of interest or to assert any non-material conflicts of interest during the course of the proceeding.
§ 263.9 Ex parte communications.
(a)
Definition
—(1)
Ex parte communication
means any material oral or written communication relevant to the merits of an adjudicatory proceeding that was neither on the record nor on reasonable prior notice to all parties that takes place between:
(i) An interested person outside the Board (including such person's counsel); and
(ii) The administrative law judge handling that proceeding, a member of the Board, or a decisional employee.
(2)
Exception.
A request for status of the proceeding does not constitute an
ex parte
communication.
(b)
Prohibition of ex parte communications.
From the time the notice is issued by the Board until the date that the Board issues its final decision pursuant to § 263.40(c):
(1) No interested person outside the Federal Reserve System shall make or knowingly cause to be made an
ex parte
communication to a member of the Board, the administrative law judge, or a decisional employee; and
(2) A member of the Board, administrative law judge, or decisional employee shall not make or knowingly cause to be made to any interested person outside the Federal Reserve System any
ex parte
communication.
(c)
Procedure upon occurrence of ex parte communication.
If an ex parte communication is received by the administrative law judge,
a member of the Board or any other person identified in paragraph (a) of this section, that person shall cause all such written communications (or, if the communication is oral, a memorandum stating the substance of the communication) to be placed on the record of the proceeding and served on all parties. All other parties to the proceeding shall have an opportunity, within ten days of receipt of service of the
ex parte
communication, to file responses thereto and to recommend any sanctions, in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, that they believe to be appropriate under the circumstances.
(d)
Sanctions.
Any party or his or her counsel who makes a prohibited ex parte communication, or who encourages or solicits another to make any such communication, may be subject to any appropriate sanction or sanctions imposed by the Board or the administrative law judge including, but not limited to, exclusion from the proceedings and an adverse ruling on the issue which is the subject of the prohibited communication.
(e)
Separation of functions.
Except to the extent required for the disposition of
ex parte
matters as authorized by law, the administrative law judge may not consult a person or party on any matter relevant to the merits of the adjudication, unless on notice and opportunity for all parties to participate. An employee or agent engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions for the Board in a case may not, in that or a factually related case, participate or advise in the decision, recommended decision, or agency review of the recommended decision under § 263.40, except as witness or counsel in public proceedings.
§ 263.10 Filing of papers.
(a)
Filing.
Any papers required to be filed, excluding documents produced in response to a discovery request pursuant to §§ 263.25 and 263.26, shall be filed with OFIA, except as otherwise provided.
(b)
Manner of filing.
Unless otherwise specified by the Board or the administrative law judge, filing may be accomplished by:
(1) Personal service;
(2) Delivering the papers to a reliable commercial courier service, overnight delivery service, or to the U.S. Post Office for Express Mail delivery;
(3) Mailing the papers by first class, registered, or certified mail; or
(4) Transmission by electronic media, only if expressly authorized, and upon any conditions specified, by the Board or the administrative law judge. All papers filed by electronic media shall also concurrently be filed in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Formal requirements as to papers filed
—(1)
Form.
All papers filed must set forth the name, address, and telephone number of the counsel or party making the filing and must be accompanied by a certification setting forth when and how service has been made on all other parties. All papers filed must be double-spaced and printed or typewritten on 8
1/2
× 11 inch paper, and must be clear and legible.
(2)
Signature.
All papers must be dated and signed as provided in § 263.7.
(3)
Caption.
All papers filed must include at the head thereof, or on a title page, the name of the Board and of the filing party, the title and docket number of the proceeding, and the subject of the particular paper.
(4)
Number of copies.
Unless otherwise specified by the Board, or the administrative law judge, an original and one copy of all documents and papers shall be filed, except that only one copy of transcripts of testimony and exhibits shall be filed.
§ 263.11 Service of papers.
(a)
By the parties.
Except as otherwise provided, a party filing papers shall serve a copy upon the counsel of record for all other parties to the proceeding so represented, and upon any party not so represented.
(b)
Method of service.
Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) and (d) of this section, a serving party shall use one or more of the following methods of service:
(1) Personal service;
(2) Delivering the papers to a reliable commercial courier service, overnight delivery service, or to the U.S. Post Office for Express Mail delivery;
(3) Mailing the papers by first class, registered, or certified mail; or
(4) Transmission by electronic media, only if the parties mutually agree. Any papers served by electronic media shall also concurrently be served in accordance with the requirements of § 263.10(c).
(c)
By the Board or the administrative law judge.
(1) All papers required to be served by the Board or the administrative law judge upon a party who has appeared in the proceeding in accordance with § 263.6, shall be served by any means specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) If a party has not appeared in the proceeding in accordance with § 263.6, the Board or the administrative law judge shall make service by any of the following methods:
(i) By personal service;
(ii) If the person to be served is an individual, by delivery to a person of suitable age and discretion at the physical location where the individual resides or works;
(iii) If the person to be served is a corporation or other association, by delivery to an officer, managing or general agent, or to any other agent authorized by appointment or by law to receive service and, if the agent is one authorized by statute to receive service and
the statute so requires, by also mailing a copy to the party;
(iv) By registered or certified mail addressed to the person's last known address; or
(v) By any other method reasonably calculated to give actual notice.
(d)
Subpoenas.
Service of a subpoena may be made:
(1) By personal service;
(2) If the person to be served is an individual, by delivery to a person of suitable age and discretion at the physical location where the individual resides or works;
(3) By delivery to an agent, which, in the case of a corporation or other association, is delivery to an officer, managing or general agent, or to any other agent authorized by appointment or by law to receive service and, if the agent is one authorized by statute to receive service and the statute so requires, by also mailing a copy to the party;
(4) By registered or certified mail addressed to the person's last known address; or
(5) By any other method as is reasonably calculated to give actual notice.
(e)
Area of service.
Service in any state, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, on any person or company doing business in any state, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, or on any person as otherwise provided by law, is effective without regard to the place where the hearing is held, provided that if service is made on a foreign bank in connection with an action or proceeding involving one or more of its branches or agencies located in any state, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, service shall be made on at least one branch or agency so involved.
§ 263.12 Construction of time limits.
(a)
General rule.
In computing any period of time prescribed by this subpart, the date of the act or event that commences the designated period of time is not included. The last day so computed is included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday. When the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the period runs until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday. Intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays are included in the computation of time. However, when the time period within which an act is to be performed is ten days or less, not including any additional time allowed for in paragraph (c) of this section, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays are not included.
(b)
When papers are deemed to be filed or served.
(1) Filing and service are deemed to be effective:
(i) In the case of personal service or same-day commercial courier delivery, upon actual service;
(ii) In the case of overnight commercial delivery service, U.S. Express Mail delivery, or first class, registered, or certified mail, upon deposit in or delivery to an appropriate point of collection;
(iii) In the case of transmission by electronic media, as specified by the authority receiving the filing, in the case of filing, and as agreed among the parties, in the case of service.
(2) The effective filing and service dates specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be modified by the Board or administrative law judge in the case of filing or by agreement of the parties in the case of service.
(c)
Calculation of time for service and filing of responsive papers.
Whenever a time limit is measured by a prescribed period from the service of any notice or paper, the applicable time limits are calculated as follows:
(1) If service is made by first class, registered, or certified mail, add three calendar days to the prescribed period;
(2) If service is made by express mail or overnight delivery service, add one calendar day to the prescribed period; or
(3) If service is made by electronic media transmission, add one calendar day to the prescribed period, unless otherwise determined by the Board or the administrative law judge in the case of filing, or by agreement among the parties in the case of service.
§ 263.13 Change of time limits.
Except as otherwise provided by law, the administrative law judge may, for good cause shown, extend the time limits prescribed by the Uniform Rules or by any notice or order issued in the proceedings. After the referral of the case to the Board pursuant to § 263.38, the Board may grant extensions of the time limits for good cause shown. Extensions may be granted at the motion of a party after notice and opportunity to respond is afforded all non-moving parties or
sua sponte
by the Board or the administrative law judge.
§ 263.14 Witness fees and expenses.
Witnesses subpoenaed for testimony or depositions shall be paid the same fees for attendance and mileage as are paid in the United States district courts in proceedings in which the United States is a party, provided that, in the case of a discovery subpoena addressed to a party, no witness fees or mileage need be paid. Fees for witnesses shall be tendered in advance by the party requesting the subpoena, except that fees and mileage need not be tendered in advance where the Board is the party requesting the subpoena. The Board shall not be required to
pay any fees to, or expenses of, any witness not subpoenaed by the Board.
§ 263.15 Opportunity for informal settlement.
Any respondent may, at any time in the proceeding, unilaterally submit to Enforcement Counsel written offers or proposals for settlement of a proceeding, without prejudice to the rights of any of the parties. No such offer or proposal shall be made to any Board representative other than Enforcement Counsel. Submission of a written settlement offer does not provide a basis for adjourning or otherwise delaying all or any portion of a proceeding under this part. No settlement offer or proposal, or any subsequent negotiation or resolution, is admissible as evidence in any proceeding.
§ 263.16 The Board's right to conduct examination.
Nothing contained in this subpart limits in any manner the right of the Board or any Federal Reserve Bank to conduct any examination, inspection, or visitation of any institution or institution-affiliated party, or the right of the Board or any Federal Reserve Bank to conduct or continue any form of investigation authorized by law.
§ 263.17 Collateral attacks on adjudicatory proceeding.
If an interlocutory appeal or collateral attack is brought in any court concerning all or any part of an adjudicatory proceeding, the challenged adjudicatory proceeding shall continue without regard to the pendency of that court proceeding. No default or other failure to act as directed in the adjudicatory proceeding within the times prescribed in this subpart shall be excused based on the pendency before any court of any interlocutory appeal or collateral attack.
§ 263.18 Commencement of proceeding and contents of notice.
(a)
Commencement of proceeding.
(1)(i) Except for change-in-control proceedings under section 7(j)(4) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1817(j)(4)), a proceeding governed by this subpart is commenced by issuance of a notice by the Board.
(ii) The notice must be served by the Board upon the respondent and given to any other appropriate financial institution supervisory authority where required by law.
(iii) The notice must be filed with OFIA.
(2) Change-in-control proceedings under section 7(j)(4) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1817(j)(4)) commence with the issuance of an order by the Board.
(b)
Contents of notice.
The notice must set forth:
(1) The legal authority for the proceeding and for the Board's jurisdiction over the proceeding;
(2) A statement of the matters of fact or law showing that the Board is entitled to relief;
(3) A proposed order or prayer for an order granting the requested relief;
(4) The time, place, and nature of the hearing as required by law or regulation;
(5) The time within which to file an answer as required by law or regulation;
(6) The time within which to request a hearing as required by law or regulation; and
(7) That the answer and/or request for a hearing shall be filed with OFIA.
§ 263.19 Answer.
(a)
When.
Within 20 days of service of the notice, respondent shall file an answer as designated in the notice. In a civil money penalty proceeding, respondent shall also file a request for a hearing within 20 days of service of the notice.
(b)
Content of answer.
An answer must specifically respond to each paragraph or allegation of fact contained in the notice and must admit, deny, or state that the party lacks sufficient information to admit or deny each allegation of fact. A statement of lack of information has the effect of a denial. Denials must fairly meet the substance of each allegation of fact denied; general denials are not permitted. When a respondent denies part of an allegation, that part must be denied and the remainder specifically admitted. Any allegation of fact in the notice which is not denied in the answer must be deemed admitted for purposes of the proceeding. A respondent is not required to respond to the portion of a notice that constitutes the prayer for relief or proposed order. The answer must set forth affirmative defenses, if any, asserted by the respondent.
(c)
Default
—(1)
Effect of failure to answer.
Failure of a respondent to file an answer required by this section within the time provided constitutes a waiver of his or her right to appear and contest the allegations in the notice. If no timely answer is filed, Enforcement Counsel may file a motion for entry of an order of default. Upon a finding that no good cause has been shown for the failure to file a timely answer, the administrative law judge shall file with the Board a recommended decision containing the findings and the relief sought in the notice. Any final order issued by the Board based upon a respondent's failure to answer is deemed to be an order issued upon consent.
(2)
Effect of failure to request a hearing in civil money penalty proceedings.
If respondent fails to request a hearing as required by law within the time provided, the notice of assessment constitutes a final and unappealable order.
(a)
Amendments.
The notice or answer may be amended or supplemented at any stage of the proceeding. The respondent must answer
an amended notice within the time remaining for the respondent's answer to the original notice, or within ten days after service of the amended notice, whichever period is longer, unless the Board or administrative law judge orders otherwise for good cause.
(b)
Amendments to conform to the evidence.
When issues not raised in the notice or answer are tried at the hearing by express or implied consent of the parties, they will be treated in all respects as if they had been raised in the notice or answer, and no formal amendments are required. If evidence is objected to at the hearing on the ground that it is not within the issues raised by the notice or answer, the administrative law judge may admit the evidence when admission is likely to assist in adjudicating the merits of the action and the objecting party fails to satisfy the administrative law judge that the admission of such evidence would unfairly prejudice that party's action or defense upon the merits. The administrative law judge may grant a continuance to enable the objecting party to meet such evidence.
§ 263.21 Failure to appear.
Failure of a respondent to appear in person at the hearing or by a duly authorized counsel constitutes a waiver of respondent's right to a hearing and is deemed an admission of the facts as alleged and consent to the relief sought in the notice. Without further proceedings or notice to the respondent, the administrative law judge shall file with the Board a recommended decision containing the findings and the relief sought in the notice.
§ 263.22 Consolidation and severance of actions.
(a)
Consolidation.
(1) On the motion of any party, or on the administrative law judge's own motion, the administrative law judge may consolidate, for some or all purposes, any two or more proceedings, if each such proceeding involves or arises out of the same transaction, occurrence or series of transactions or occurrences, or involves at least one common respondent or a material common question of law or fact, unless such consolidation would cause unreasonable delay or injustice.
(2) In the event of consolidation under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, appropriate adjustment to the prehearing schedule shall be made to avoid unnecessary expense, inconvenience, or delay.
(b)
Severance.
The administrative law judge may, upon the motion of any party, sever the proceeding for separate resolution of the matter as to any respondent only if the administrative law judge finds that:
(1) Undue prejudice or injustice to the moving party would result from not severing the proceeding; and
(2) Such undue prejudice or injustice would outweigh the interests of judicial economy and expedition in the complete and final resolution of the proceeding.
§ 263.23 Motions.
(a)
In writing.
(1) Except as otherwise provided herein, an application or request for an order or ruling must be made by written motion.
(2) All written motions must state with particularity the relief sought and must be accompanied by a proposed order.
(3) No oral argument may be held on written motions except as otherwise directed by the administrative law judge. Written memoranda, briefs, affidavits or other relevant material or documents may be filed in support of or in opposition to a motion.
(b)
Oral motions.
A motion may be made orally on the record unless the administrative law judge directs that such motion be reduced to writing.
(c)
Filing of motions.
Motions must be filed with the administrative law judge, except that following the filing of the recommended decision, motions must be filed with the Board.
(d)
Responses.
(1) Except as otherwise provided herein, within ten days after service of any written motion, or within such other period of time as may be established by the administrative law judge or the Board, any party may file a written response to a motion. The administrative law judge shall not rule on any oral or written motion before each party has had an opportunity to file a response.
(2) The failure of a party to oppose a written motion or an oral motion made on the record is deemed a consent by that party to the entry of an order substantially in the form of the order accompanying the motion.
(e)
Dilatory motions.
Frivolous, dilatory or repetitive motions are prohibited. The filing of such motions may form the basis for sanctions.
(f)
Dispositive motions.
Dispositive motions are governed by §§ 263.29 and 263.30.
§ 263.24 Scope of document discovery.
(a)
Limits on discovery.
(1) Subject to the limitations set out in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, a party to a proceeding under this subpart may obtain document discovery by serving a written request to produce documents. For purposes of a request to produce documents, the term “documents” may be defined to include drawings, graphs, charts, photographs, recordings, data stored in electronic form, and other data compilations from which information can be obtained, or translated, if necessary, by the parties through detection devices into reasonably usable form, as well as written material of all kinds.
(2) Discovery by use of deposition is governed by § 263.53 of subpart B of this part.
(3) Discovery by use of interrogatories is not permitted.
(b)
Relevance.
A party may obtain document discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that has material relevance to the merits of the pending action. Any request to produce documents that calls for irrelevant material, that is unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, unduly burdensome, or repetitive of previous requests, or that seeks to obtain privileged documents will be denied or modified. A request is unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope or unduly burdensome if, among other things, it fails to include justifiable limitations on the time period covered and the geographic locations to be searched, the time provided to respond in the request is inadequate, or the request calls for copies of documents to be delivered to the requesting party and fails to include the requestor's written agreement to pay in advance for the copying, in accordance with § 263.25.
(c)
Privileged matter.
Privileged documents are not discoverable. Privileges include the attorney-client privilege, work-product privilege, any government's or government agency's deliberative-process privilege, and any other privileges the Constitution, any applicable act of Congress, or the principles of common law provide.
(d)
Time limits.
All discovery, including all responses to discovery requests, shall be completed at least 20 days prior to the date scheduled for the commencement of the hearing. No exceptions to this time limit shall be permitted, unless the administrative law judge finds on the record that good cause exists for waiving the requirements of this paragraph.
§ 263.25 Request for document discovery from parties.
(a)
General rule.
Any party may serve on any other party a request to produce for inspection any discoverable documents that are in the possession, custody, or control of the party upon whom the request is served. The request must identify the documents to be produced either by individual item or by category, and must describe each item and category with reasonable particularity. Documents must be produced as they are kept in the usual course of business or must be organized to correspond with the categories in the request.
(b)
Production or copying.
The request must specify a reasonable time, place, and manner for production and performing any related acts. In lieu of inspecting the documents, the requesting party may specify that all or some of the responsive documents be copied and the copies delivered to the requesting party. If copying of fewer than 250 pages is requested, the party to whom the request is addressed shall bear the cost of copying and shipping charges. If a party requests 250 pages or more of copying, the requesting party shall pay for the copying and shipping charges. Copying charges are the current per-page copying rate imposed by 12 CFR part 261 implementing the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552). The party to whom the request is addressed may require payment in advance before producing the documents.
(c)
Obligation to update responses.
A party who has responded to a discovery request with a response that was complete when made is not required to supplement the response to include documents thereafter acquired, unless the responding party learns that:
(1) The response was materially incorrect when made; or
(2) The response, though correct when made, is no longer true and a failure to amend the response is, in substance, a knowing concealment.
(d)
Motions to limit discovery.
(1) Any party that objects to a discovery request may, within ten days of being served with such request, file a motion in accordance with the provisions of § 263.23 to strike or otherwise limit the request. If an objection is made to only a portion of an item or category in a request, the portion objected to shall be specified. Any objections not made in accordance with this paragraph and § 263.23 are waived.
(2) The party who served the request that is the subject of a motion to strike or limit may file a written response within five days of service of the motion. No other party may file a response.
(e)
Privilege.
At the time other documents are produced, the producing party must reasonably identify all documents withheld on the grounds of privilege and must produce a statement of the basis for the assertion of privilege. When similar documents that are protected by deliberative process, attorney-work-product, or attorney-client privilege are voluminous, these documents may be identified by category instead of by individual document. The administrative law judge retains discretion to determine when the identification by category is insufficient.
(f)
Motions to compel production.
(1) If a party withholds any documents as privileged or fails to comply fully with a discovery request, the requesting party may, within ten days of the assertion of privilege or of the time the failure to comply becomes known to the requesting party, file a motion in accordance with the provisions of § 263.23 for the issuance of a subpoena compelling production.
(2) The party who asserted the privilege or failed to comply with the request may file a written response to a motion to compel within five days of service of the motion. No other party may file a response.
(g)
Ruling on motions.
After the time for filing responses pursuant to this section has expired, the administrative law judge shall rule promptly on all motions filed pursuant
to this section. If the administrative law judge determines that a discovery request, or any of its terms, calls for irrelevant material, is unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, unduly burdensome, or repetitive of previous requests, or seeks to obtain privileged documents, he or she may deny or modify the request, and may issue appropriate protective orders, upon such conditions as justice may require. The pendency of a motion to strike or limit discovery or to compel production is not a basis for staying or continuing the proceeding, unless otherwise ordered by the administrative law judge. Notwithstanding any other provision in this part, the administrative law judge may not release, or order a party to produce, documents withheld on grounds of privilege if the party has stated to the administrative law judge its intention to file a timely motion for interlocutory review of the administrative law judge's order to produce the documents, and until the motion for interlocutory review has been decided.
(h)
Enforcing discovery subpoenas.
If the administrative law judge issues a subpoena compelling production of documents by a party, the subpoenaing party may, in the event of noncompliance and to the extent authorized by applicable law, apply to any appropriate United States district court for an order requiring compliance with the subpoena. A party's right to seek court enforcement of a subpoena shall not in any manner limit the sanctions that may be imposed by the administrative law judge against a party who fails to produce subpoenaed documents.
§ 263.26 Document subpoenas to nonparties.
(a)
General rules.
(1) Any party may apply to the administrative law judge for the issuance of a document discovery subpoena addressed to any person who is not a party to the proceeding. The application must contain a proposed document subpoena and a brief statement showing the general relevance and reasonableness of the scope of documents sought. The subpoenaing party shall specify a reasonable time, place, and manner for making production in response to the document subpoena.
(2) A party shall only apply for a document subpoena under this section within the time period during which such party could serve a discovery request under § 263.24(d). The party obtaining the document subpoena is responsible for serving it on the subpoenaed person and for serving copies on all parties. Document subpoenas may be served in any state, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, or as otherwise provided by law.
(3) The administrative law judge shall promptly issue any document subpoena requested pursuant to this section. If the administrative law judge determines that the application does not set forth a valid basis for the issuance of the subpoena, or that any of its terms are unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, or unduly burdensome, he or she may refuse to issue the subpoena or may issue it in a modified form upon such conditions as may be consistent with the Uniform Rules.
(b)
Motion to quash or modify.
(1) Any person to whom a document subpoena is directed may file a motion to quash or modify such subpoena, accompanied by a statement of the basis for quashing or modifying the subpoena. The movant shall serve the motion on all parties, and any party may respond to such motion within ten days of service of the motion.
(2) Any motion to quash or modify a document subpoena must be filed on the same basis, including the assertion of privilege, upon which a party could object to a discovery request under § 263.25(d), and during the same time limits during which such an objection could be filed.
(c)
Enforcing document subpoenas.
If a subpoenaed person fails to comply with any subpoena issued pursuant to this section or any order of the administrative law judge which directs compliance with all or any portion of a document subpoena, the subpoenaing party or any other aggrieved party may, to the extent authorized by applicable law, apply to an appropriate United States district court for an order requiring compliance with so much of the document subpoena as the administrative law judge has not quashed or modified. A party's right to seek court enforcement of a document subpoena shall in no way limit the sanctions that may be imposed by the administrative law judge on a party who induces a failure to comply with subpoenas issued under this section.
§ 263.27 Deposition of witness unavailable for hearing.
(a)
General rules.
(1) If a witness will not be available for the hearing, a party desiring to preserve that witness's testimony for the record may apply in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, to the administrative law judge for the issuance of a subpoena, including a subpoena duces tecum, requiring the attendance of the witness at a deposition. The administrative law judge may issue a deposition subpoena under this section upon a showing that:
(i) The witness will be unable to attend or may be prevented from attending the hearing because of age, sickness or infirmity, or will otherwise be unavailable;
(ii) The witness's unavailability was not procured or caused by the subpoenaing party;
(iii) The testimony is reasonably expected to be material; and
(iv) Taking the deposition will not result in any undue burden to any other party and will not cause undue delay of the proceeding.
(2) The application must contain a proposed deposition subpoena and a brief statement of the reasons for the issuance of the subpoena. The subpoena must name the witness whose deposition is to be taken and specify the time and place for taking the deposition. A deposition subpoena may require the witness to be deposed at any place within the country in which that witness resides or has a regular place of employment or such other convenient place as the administrative law judge shall fix.
(3) Any requested subpoena that sets forth a valid basis for its issuance must be promptly issued, unless the administrative law judge on his or her own motion, requires a written response or requires attendance at a conference concerning whether the requested subpoena should be issued.
(4) The party obtaining a deposition subpoena is responsible for serving it on the witness and for serving copies on all parties. Unless the administrative law judge orders otherwise, no deposition under this section shall be taken on fewer than ten days' notice to the witness and all parties. Deposition subpoenas may be served in any state, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, on any person or company doing business in any state, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, or as otherwise permitted by law.
(b)
Objections to deposition subpoenas.
(1) The witness and any party who has not had an opportunity to oppose a deposition subpoena issued under this section may file a motion with the administrative law judge to quash or modify the subpoena prior to the time for compliance specified in the subpoena, but not more than ten days after service of the subpoena.
(2) A statement of the basis for the motion to quash or modify a subpoena issued under this section must accompany the motion. The motion must be served on all parties.
(c)
Procedure upon deposition.
(1) Each witness testifying pursuant to a deposition subpoena must be duly sworn, and each party shall have the right to examine the witness. Objections to questions or documents must be in short form, stating the grounds for the objection. Failure to object to questions or documents is not deemed a waiver except where the ground for the objection might have been avoided if the objection had been timely presented. All questions, answers, and objections must be recorded.
(2) Any party may move before the administrative law judge for an order compelling the witness to answer any questions the witness has refused to answer or submit any evidence the witness has refused to submit during the deposition.
(3) The deposition must be subscribed by the witness, unless the parties and the witness, by stipulation, have waived the signing, or the witness is ill, cannot be found, or has refused to sign. If the deposition is not subscribed by the witness, the court reporter taking the deposition shall certify that the transcript is a true and complete transcript of the deposition.
(d)
Enforcing subpoenas.
If a subpoenaed person fails to comply with any order of the administrative law judge which directs compliance with all or any portion of a deposition subpoena under paragraph (b) or (c)(3) of this section, the subpoenaing party or other aggrieved party may, to the extent authorized by applicable law, apply to an appropriate United States district court for an order requiring compliance with the portions of the subpoena that the administrative law judge has ordered enforced. A party's right to seek court enforcement of a deposition subpoena in no way limits the sanctions that may be imposed by the administrative law judge on a party who fails to comply with, or procures a failure to comply with, a subpoena issued under this section.
§ 263.28 Interlocutory review.
(a)
General rule.
The Board may review a ruling of the administrative law judge prior to the certification of the record to the Board only in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section and § 263.23.
(b)
Scope of review.
The Board may exercise interlocutory review of a ruling of the administrative law judge if the Board finds that:
(1) The ruling involves a controlling question of law or policy as to which substantial grounds exist for a difference of opinion;
(2) Immediate review of the ruling may materially advance the ultimate termination of the proceeding;
(3) Subsequent modification of the ruling at the conclusion of the proceeding would be an inadequate remedy; or
(4) Subsequent modification of the ruling would cause unusual delay or expense.
(c)
Procedure.
Any request for interlocutory review shall be filed by a party with the administrative law judge within ten days of his or her ruling and shall otherwise comply with § 263.23. Any party may file a response to a request for interlocutory review in accordance with § 263.23(d). Upon the expiration of the time for filing all responses, the administrative law judge shall refer the matter to the Board for final disposition.
(d)
Suspension of proceeding.
Neither a request for interlocutory review nor any disposition of such a request by the Board under this section suspends or stays the proceeding unless otherwise ordered by the administrative law judge or the Board.
§ 263.29 Summary disposition.
(a)
In general.
The administrative law judge shall recommend that the Board issue a final order granting a motion for summary disposition if the undisputed pleaded facts, admissions, affidavits, stipulations, documentary evidence, matters as to which official notice may be taken, and any other evidentiary materials properly submitted in connection with a motion for summary disposition show that:
(1) There is no genuine issue as to any material fact; and
(2) The moving party is entitled to a decision in its favor as a matter of law.
(b)
Filing of motions and responses.
(1) Any party who believes that there is no genuine issue of material fact to be determined and that he or she is entitled to a decision as a matter of law may move at any time for summary disposition in its favor of all or any part of the proceeding. Any party, within 20 days after service of such a motion, or within such time period as allowed by the administrative law judge, may file a response to such motion.
(2) A motion for summary disposition must be accompanied by a statement of the material facts as to which the moving party contends there is no genuine issue. Such motion must be supported by documentary evidence, which may take the form of admissions in pleadings, stipulations, depositions, investigatory depositions, transcripts, affidavits and any other evidentiary materials that the moving party contends support his or her position. The motion must also be accompanied by a brief containing the points and authorities in support of the contention of the moving party. Any party opposing a motion for summary disposition must file a statement setting forth those material facts as to which he or she contends a genuine dispute exists. Such opposition must be supported by evidence of the same type as that submitted with the motion for summary disposition and a brief containing the points and authorities in support of the contention that summary disposition would be inappropriate.
(c)
Hearing on motion.
At the request of any party or on his or her own motion, the administrative law judge may hear oral argument on the motion for summary disposition.
(d)
Decision on motion.
Following receipt of a motion for summary disposition and all responses thereto, the administrative law judge shall determine whether the moving party is entitled to summary disposition. If the administrative law judge determines that summary disposition is warranted, the administrative law judge shall submit a recommended decision to that effect to the Board. If the administrative law judge finds that no party is entitled to summary disposition, he or she shall make a ruling denying the motion.
§ 263.30 Partial summary disposition.
If the administrative law judge determines that a party is entitled to summary disposition as to certain claims only, he or she shall defer submitting a recommended decision as to those claims. A hearing on the remaining issues must be ordered. Those claims for which the administrative law judge has determined that summary disposition is warranted will be addressed in the recommended decision filed at the conclusion of the hearing.
§ 263.31 Scheduling and prehearing conferences.
(a)
Scheduling conference.
Within 30 days of service of the notice or order commencing a proceeding or such other time as parties may agree, the administrative law judge shall direct counsel for all parties to meet with him or her in person at a specified time and place prior to the hearing or to confer by telephone for the purpose of scheduling the course and conduct of the proceeding. This meeting or telephone conference is called a “scheduling conference.” The identification of potential witnesses, the time for and manner of discovery, and the exchange of any prehearing materials including witness lists, statements of issues, stipulations, exhibits and any other materials may also be determined at the scheduling conference.
(b)
Prehearing conferences.
The administrative law judge may, in addition to the scheduling conference, on his or her own motion or at the request of any party, direct counsel for the parties to meet with him or her (in person or by telephone) at a prehearing conference to address any or all of the following:
(1) Simplification and clarification of the issues;
(2) Stipulations, admissions of fact, and the contents, authenticity and admissibility into evidence of documents;
(3) Matters of which official notice may be taken;
(4) Limitation of the number of witnesses;
(5) Summary disposition of any or all issues;
(6) Resolution of discovery issues or disputes;
(7) Amendments to pleadings; and
(8) Such other matters as may aid in the orderly disposition of the proceeding.
(c)
Transcript.
The administrative law judge, in his or her discretion, may require that a scheduling or prehearing conference be recorded by a court reporter. A transcript of the conference and any materials filed, including orders, becomes part of the record of the proceeding. A party may obtain a copy of the transcript at his or her expense.
(d)
Scheduling or prehearing orders.
At or within a reasonable time following the conclusion of the scheduling conference or any prehearing conference, the administrative law judge shall serve on each party an order
setting forth any agreements reached and any procedural determinations made.
§ 263.32 Prehearing submissions.
(a) Within the time set by the administrative law judge, but in no case later than 14 days before the start of the hearing, each party shall serve on every other party, his or her:
(1) Prehearing statement;
(2) Final list of witnesses to be called to testify at the hearing, including name and address of each witness and a short summary of the expected testimony of each witness;
(3) List of the exhibits to be introduced at the hearing along with a copy of each exhibit; and
(4) Stipulations of fact, if any.
(b) Effect of failure to comply. No witness may testify and no exhibits may be introduced at the hearing if such witness or exhibit is not listed in the prehearing submissions pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, except for good cause shown.
§ 263.33 Public hearings.
(a)
General rule.
All hearings shall be open to the public, unless the Board, in the Board's discretion, determines that holding an open hearing would be contrary to the public interest. Within 20 days of service of the notice or, in the case of change-in-control proceedings under section 7(j)(4) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1817(j)(4)), within 20 days from service of the hearing order, any respondent may file with the Board a request for a private hearing, and any party may file a reply to such a request. A party must serve on the administrative law judge a copy of any request or reply the party files with the Board. The form of, and procedure for, these requests and replies are governed by § 263.23. A party's failure to file a request or a reply constitutes a waiver of any objections regarding whether the hearing will be public or private.
(b)
Filing document under seal.
Enforcement Counsel, in his or her discretion, may file any document or part of a document under seal if disclosure of the document would be contrary to the public interest. The administrative law judge shall take all appropriate steps to preserve the confidentiality of such documents or parts thereof, including closing portions of the hearing to the public.
§ 263.34 Hearing subpoenas.
(a)
Issuance.
(1) Upon application of a party showing general relevance and reasonableness of scope of the testimony or other evidence sought, the administrative law judge may issue a subpoena or a subpoena duces tecum requiring the attendance of a witness at the hearing or the production of documentary or physical evidence at the hearing. The application for a hearing subpoena must also contain a proposed subpoena specifying the attendance of a witness or the production of evidence from any state, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, or as otherwise provided by law at any designated place where the hearing is being conducted. The party making the application shall serve a copy of the application and the proposed subpoena on every other party.
(2) A party may apply for a hearing subpoena at any time before the commencement of a hearing. During a hearing, a party may make an application for a subpoena orally on the record before the administrative law judge.
(3) The administrative law judge shall promptly issue any hearing subpoena requested pursuant to this section. If the administrative law judge determines that the application does not set forth a valid basis for the issuance of the subpoena, or that any of its terms are unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, or unduly burdensome, he or she may refuse to issue the subpoena or may issue it in a modified form upon any conditions consistent with this subpart. Upon issuance by the administrative law judge, the party making the application shall serve the subpoena on the person named in the subpoena and on each party.
(b)
Motion to quash or modify.
(1) Any person to whom a hearing subpoena is directed or any party may file a motion to quash or modify the subpoena, accompanied by a statement of the basis for quashing or modifying the subpoena. The movant must serve the motion on each party and on the person named in the subpoena. Any party may respond to the motion within ten days of service of the motion.
(2) Any motion to quash or modify a hearing subpoena must be filed prior to the time specified in the subpoena for compliance, but not more than ten days after the date of service of the subpoena upon the movant.
(c)
Enforcing subpoenas.
If a subpoenaed person fails to comply with any subpoena issued pursuant to this section or any order of the administrative law judge which directs compliance with all or any portion of a document subpoena, the subpoenaing party or any other aggrieved party may seek enforcement of the subpoena pursuant to § 263.26(c).
§ 263.35 Conduct of hearings.
(a)
General rules.
(1) Hearings shall be conducted so as to provide a fair and expeditious presentation of the relevant disputed issues. Each party has the right to present its case or defense by oral and documentary evidence and to conduct such cross examination as may be required for full disclosure of the facts.
(2)
Order of hearing.
Enforcement Counsel shall present its case-in-chief first, unless otherwise ordered by the administrative law judge, or unless otherwise expressly specified
by law or regulation. Enforcement Counsel shall be the first party to present an opening statement and a closing statement, and may make a rebuttal statement after the respondent's closing statement. If there are multiple respondents, respondents may agree among themselves as to their order of presentation of their cases, but if they do not agree the administrative law judge shall fix the order.
(3)
Examination of witnesses.
Only one counsel for each party may conduct an examination of a witness, except that in the case of extensive direct examination, the administrative law judge may permit more than one counsel for the party presenting the witness to conduct the examination. A party may have one counsel conduct the direct examination and another counsel conduct re-direct examination of a witness, or may have one counsel conduct the cross examination of a witness and another counsel conduct the re-cross examination of a witness.
(4)
Stipulations.
Unless the administrative law judge directs otherwise, all stipulations of fact and law previously agreed upon by the parties, and all documents, the admissibility of which have been previously stipulated, will be admitted into evidence upon commencement of the hearing.
(b)
Transcript.
The hearing must be recorded and transcribed. The reporter will make the transcript available to any party upon payment by that party to the reporter of the cost of the transcript. The administrative law judge may order the record corrected, either upon motion to correct, upon stipulation of the parties, or following notice to the parties upon the administrative law judge's own motion.
§ 263.36 Evidence.
(a)
Admissibility.
(1) Except as is otherwise set forth in this section, relevant, material, and reliable evidence that is not unduly repetitive is admissible to the fullest extent authorized by the Administrative Procedure Act and other applicable law.
(2) Evidence that would be admissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence is admissible in a proceeding conducted pursuant to this subpart.
(3) Evidence that would be inadmissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence may not be deemed or ruled to be inadmissible in a proceeding conducted pursuant to this subpart if such evidence is relevant, material, reliable and not unduly repetitive.
(b)
Official notice.
(1) Official notice may be taken of any material fact which may be judicially noticed by a United States district court and any material information in the official public records of any Federal or state government agency.
(2) All matters officially noticed by the administrative law judge or Board shall appear on the record.
(3) If official notice is requested or taken of any material fact, the parties, upon timely request, shall be afforded an opportunity to object.
(c)
Documents.
(1) A duplicate copy of a document is admissible to the same extent as the original, unless a genuine issue is raised as to whether the copy is in some material respect not a true and legible copy of the original.
(2) Subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, any document, including a report of examination, supervisory activity, inspection or visitation, prepared by an appropriate Federal financial institutions regulatory agency or state regulatory agency, is admissible either with or without a sponsoring witness.
(3) Witnesses may use existing or newly created charts, exhibits, calendars, calculations, outlines or other graphic material to summarize, illustrate, or simplify the presentation of testimony. Such materials may, subject to the administrative law judge's discretion, be used with or without being admitted into evidence.
(d)
Objections.
(1) Objections to the admissibility of evidence must be timely made and rulings on all objections must appear on the record.
(2) When an objection to a question or line of questioning propounded to a witness is sustained, the examining counsel may make a specific proffer on the record of what he or she expected to prove by the expected testimony of the witness, either by representation of counsel or by direct interrogation of the witness.
(3) The administrative law judge shall retain rejected exhibits, adequately marked for identification, for the record, and transmit such exhibits to the Board.
(4) Failure to object to admission of evidence or to any ruling constitutes a waiver of the objection.
(e)
Stipulations.
The parties may stipulate as to any relevant matters of fact or the authentication of any relevant documents. Such stipulations must be received in evidence at a hearing, and are binding on the parties with respect to the matters therein stipulated.
(f)
Depositions of unavailable witnesses.
(1) If a witness is unavailable to testify at a hearing, and that witness has testified in a deposition to which all parties in a proceeding had notice and an opportunity to participate, a party may offer as evidence all or any part of the transcript of the deposition, including deposition exhibits, if any.
(2) Such deposition transcript is admissible to the same extent that testimony would have been admissible had that person testified at the hearing, provided that if a witness refused to answer proper questions during the depositions, the administrative law judge may, on that basis, limit the admissibility of
the deposition in any manner that justice requires.
(3) Only those portions of a deposition received in evidence at the hearing constitute a part of the record.
§ 263.37 Post-hearing filings.
(a)
Proposed findings and conclusions and supporting briefs.
(1) Using the same method of service for each party, the administrative law judge shall serve notice upon each party, that the certified transcript, together with all hearing exhibits and exhibits introduced but not admitted into evidence at the hearing, has been filed. Any party may file with the administrative law judge proposed findings of fact, proposed conclusions of law, and a proposed order within 30 days following service of this notice by the administrative law judge or within such longer period as may be ordered by the administrative law judge.
(2) Proposed findings and conclusions must be supported by citation to any relevant authorities and by page references to any relevant portions of the record. A post-hearing brief may be filed in support of proposed findings and conclusions, either as part of the same document or in a separate document. Any party who fails to file timely with the administrative law judge any proposed finding or conclusion is deemed to have waived the right to raise in any subsequent filing or submission any issue not addressed in such party's proposed finding or conclusion.
(b)
Reply briefs.
