means a weaned beef breed bovine animal that on or before the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition does not meet the definition of adult beef cow or bull.
Non-adult beefalo
means a weaned hybrid of beef and bison that on or before
the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition does not meet the definition of adult beefalo cow or bull.
Non-adult buffalo or bison
means a weaned animal of those breeds that on or before the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or loss condition does not meet the definition of adult buffalo or adult bison cow or bull.
Non-adult dairy cattle
means a weaned bovine animal of a breed used for the purpose of providing milk for human consumption that on or before the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition does not meet the definition of adult dairy cow or bull.
Normal grazing period
means, as determined by FSA, with respect to a specific type of grazing land or pastureland in the county, the period during the calendar year when grazing animals receive daily nutrients and satisfy net energy requirements without supplemental feed.
Normal mortality
means the numerical amount, computed by a percentage of expected honeybee colony and farm-raised fish deaths, by category, that normally occur during a program year for a producer, as established for the area by the FSA State Committee for farm-raised fish, and as established nationwide by the Deputy Administrator for honeybee colonies.
NVSL
means the APHIS National Veterinary Services Laboratories.
Positive H5N1 test collection date
means the date of sample collection for a positive H5N1 test that is reported to an NVSL and indicated on the H5N1 test result.
Program year
means for 2019 from October 1, 2018, through December 31, 2019; for 2020 and subsequent years, the program year is the same as the calendar year, January 1 through December 31.
Ram
means a male sheep.
Reliable record
means any non-verifiable record available that reasonably supports the eligible loss, as determined acceptable by the COC.
Sheep
means a weaned domesticated, ruminant mammal of the genus Ovis.
U.S. Drought Monitor
is a system for classifying drought severity according to a range of abnormally dry to exceptional drought. It is a collaborative effort between Federal and academic partners, produced on a weekly basis, to synthesize multiple indices, outlooks, and drought impacts on a map and in narrative form. This synthesis of indices is reported by the National Drought Mitigation Center at
http://droughtmonitor.unl.edu.
Should an eligible area not be covered by the U.S. Drought Monitor, the Deputy Administrator, in consultation with appropriate weather-related agencies and experts, will establish procedures for rating drought intensity using the same range of categories as the U.S. Drought Monitor and use this information in place of the missing data for eligibility purposes.
Unweaned livestock
means an animal not weaned from mother's milk or milk replacement to other nourishment. For ELAP purposes, unweaned livestock does not include turkeys, ducks, chickens, and geese.
Verifiable record
means a document provided by the producer that can be verified by the County Committee (COC) through an independent source.
[79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 79 FR 57721, Sept. 26, 2014; 79 FR 74571, Dec. 15, 2014; 83 FR 49464, Oct. 2, 2018; 85 FR 10963, Feb. 26, 2020; 87 FR 19785, Apr. 6, 2022; 88 FR 1891, Jan. 11, 2023; 89 FR 54334, July 1, 2024]
§ 1416.103
Eligible losses, adverse weather, and other loss conditions.
(a) An eligible loss covered under this subpart is a loss that an eligible producer, livestock owner, or contract grower of livestock, or eligible producer of honeybees or farm-raised fish incurs due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, as determined by the Deputy Administrator. All other causes of loss are not considered an eligible loss condition, including, but not limited to, negligence, mismanagement or wrongdoing by the producer.
(b) A loss covered under LFP or LIP is not eligible for ELAP.
(c) To be an eligible loss in a program year, the loss must have been apparent to the person or legal entity providing the notice and to FSA in the program year for which payment is being requested.
(d) For a livestock feed loss to be considered an eligible loss, the livestock feed loss must be one of the following:
(1) Loss of purchased forage or feedstuffs that was intended for use as feed for the participant's eligible livestock as specified in § 1416.104(a) that was physically located in the county where the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition occurred on the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition. The loss must be due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, including, but not limited to, blizzard, eligible winter storms, flood, hurricane, lightning, tidal surge, tornado, volcanic eruption, or wildfire on non-Federal land;
(2) Loss of mechanically harvested forage or feedstuffs intended for use as feed for the participant's eligible livestock as specified in § 1416.104(a) that was physically located in the county where the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition occurred on the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition. The loss must have occurred after harvest due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, including, but not limited to, blizzard, eligible winter storms, flood, hurricane, lightning, tidal surge, tornado, volcanic eruption, or wildfire on non-Federal land;
(3) A loss resulting from the additional cost of purchasing additional livestock feed, above normal quantities, required to maintain the eligible livestock as specified in § 1416.104(a) during an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, until additional livestock feed becomes available, as determined by the Deputy Administrator. To be eligible, the additional feed purchased above normal quantities must be feed that is fed to maintain livestock in the county where the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition occurred. Eligible adverse weather or eligible loss conditions, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, including, but not limited to, blizzard, eligible winter storms, flood, hurricane, lightning, tidal surge, tornado, volcanic eruption, or wildfire on non-Federal land;
(4) A loss resulting from the additional cost incurred for transporting livestock feed to eligible livestock as specified in § 1416.104(a) due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, including, but not limited to, costs associated with equipment rental fees for hay lifts and snow removal. To be eligible, the loss must be incurred in combination with a loss described in paragraphs (d)(1), (2), or (3) of this section. The additional costs incurred must have been incurred for losses suffered in the county where the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition occurred. Eligible adverse weather or eligible loss conditions, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, include, but not limited to, blizzard, eligible winter storms, flood, hurricane, lightning, tidal surge, tornado, volcanic eruption, or wildfire on non-Federal land;
(5) A loss resulting from the additional cost of transporting water to eligible livestock as specified in § 1416.104(a) due to eligible adverse weather, eligible loss condition, or eligible drought, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, including, but not limited to, costs associated with water transport equipment rental fees, labor, and contracted water transportation fees. The cost of the water is not eligible for payment. To be eligible for additional cost of transporting water to eligible livestock, the livestock must be livestock that would normally have been grazing on eligible grazing lands that meet all of the following:
(i) Physically located in the county where the eligible adverse weather, eligible loss condition, or eligible drought, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, occurred;
(ii) That had adequate livestock watering systems or facilities before the eligible adverse weather, eligible loss condition, or eligible drought occurred; and
(iii) That the producer is not normally required to transport water to the livestock.
(6) A loss resulting from the additional cost incurred on or after January 1, 2021, to transport eligible livestock to feed or livestock feed to eligible livestock for additional mileage above normal, due to eligible adverse weather, an eligible loss condition, or eligible drought, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, including costs associated with treating livestock feed to prevent the spread of invasive pests. The cost of the feed is not eligible for payment. Negligence, mismanagement, or wrongdoing by the producer is not considered an eligible loss condition for livestock or feed transportation costs. To be eligible for a loss under this paragraph, the livestock must be livestock that would normally have been on eligible grazing lands physically located in the county where the eligible adverse weather, eligible loss condition, or eligible drought, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, occurred.
(e) For a grazing loss to be considered eligible, the grazing loss must have been incurred:
(1) During the normal grazing period, as specified in § 1416.102;
(2) On eligible grazing land that is physically located in the county where the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition occurred;
(3) Due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, including, but not limited to, blizzard, eligible winter storm, flood, hurricane, hail, lightning, tidal surge, volcanic eruption, and wildfire on non-Federal land. The grazing loss will not be eligible if it is due to an adverse weather condition covered by LFP as specified in subpart C of this part, such as drought or wildfire on federally managed land where the producer is prohibited by the Federal agency from grazing the normally permitted livestock on the managed rangeland due to a fire.
(f) For a loss resulting from the additional cost associated with gathering livestock to inspect or treat for cattle tick fever, the livestock gathered for inspection or treatment for cattle tick fever must be considered eligible livestock as specified in § 1416.104(d). To be considered an eligible loss, acceptable records, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, must be on file with APHIS, that provide the number of livestock gathered and inspected or treated for cattle tick fever and the number of treatments given during the program year.
(g) For honeybee feed or farm-raised fish feed losses to be considered an eligible loss, the honeybee feed or farm-raised fish feed loss must be one of the following:
(1) Loss of honeybee feed or farm-raised fish feed that was intended as feed for the participant's eligible honeybees or farm-raised fish that was physically located in the county where the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition occurred on the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition. The loss must be due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, including, but not limited to, earthquake, flood, hurricane, lightning, tidal surge, tornado, volcanic eruption, and wildfire.
(2) A loss resulting from the additional cost of purchasing additional honeybee feed, above normal quantities, required to maintain the honeybees during an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, until additional honeybee feed becomes available, as determined by the Deputy Administrator. To be eligible the additional feed purchased above normal quantities must be feed that is fed to maintain honeybees in the county where the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition occurred. The loss must be due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, including, but not limited to, earthquake, early fall frost, excessive rainfall, flood, hurricane, late spring frost, lightning, tidal surge, tornado, volcanic eruption, wildfire and eligible drought, as specified in § 1416.102.
(h) For honeybee colony or honeybee hive losses to be considered eligible, the hive producer must have incurred the loss in the county where the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition occurred. The honeybee colony or hive losses must be due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss
condition, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, including, but not limited to, colony collapse disorder, earthquake, eligible winter storm, as specified in § 1416.102, excessive wind, flood, hurricane, lightning, tornado, volcanic eruption, and wildfire. Drought is not an eligible adverse weather event or eligible loss condition for honeybee hive losses. To be considered eligible for honeybee hive loss as of the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather event or eligible loss condition the honeybee hive must be all the following: Maintained for producing honey, pollinating, or breeding honeybees for commercial use in a farming operation; physically located in the county where the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss conditions occurred; and be a part of a honeybee farming operation in which the applicant has a risk in honey production, pollination, or honeybee breeding. To be considered an eligible honeybee colony loss, the colony loss must be in excess of normal mortality, as established by the Deputy Administrator, and the loss could not have been prevented through reasonable and available measures. The notice of loss must be accompanied by acceptable documentation, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, that demonstrates an eligible loss occurred and was associated with an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, and that generally accepted husbandry and production practices had been followed. For colony collapse disorder, acceptable documentation includes, but is not limited to, proof of beginning inventory and good management practices, and a producer certification that the loss of honeybee colonies was a direct result of at least 3 of the following 5 symptoms:
(1) The loss of live queen or drone bee populations inside the hives;
(2) Rapid decline of adult worker bee population outside the hives, leaving brood poorly or completely unattended;
(3) Absence of dead adult bees inside the hive and outside the entrance of the hive;
(4) Absence of robbing collapsed colonies;
(5) At the time of collapse, varroa mite and Nosema populations are not at levels known to cause economic injury or population decline.
(i) For death losses of bait fish, game fish, or other aquatic species, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, to be considered eligible, the producer must have incurred the fish loss, in excess of normal mortality, in the county where the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition occurred. The fish death must be due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition as determined by the Deputy Administrator including, but not limited to, earthquake, flood, hurricane, tidal surge, tornado, and volcanic eruption.
(j) For milk losses due to H5N1 to be considered eligible, the producer must have had reduced milk production as a result of removal of adult dairy cows from daily milking due to H5N1 infection. Such infection must be confirmed for the herd by at least one positive H5N1 test for a dairy cow within that herd. The date of the eligible loss condition for milk losses due to H5N1 is the positive H5N1 test collection date.
[79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 49465, Oct. 2, 2018; 85 FR 10964, Feb. 26, 2020; 87 FR 19785, Apr. 6, 2022; 88 FR 1891, Jan. 11, 2023; 89 FR 54334, July 1, 2024]
§ 1416.104
Eligible livestock, honeybees, and farm-raised fish.
(a) To be considered eligible livestock for livestock grazing and feed; losses resulting from transporting water, feed, and livestock; and gathering livestock to treat for cattle tick fever; livestock must meet all the following conditions:
(1) Be grazing animals such as alpacas, adult or non-adult dairy cattle, adult or non-adult beef cattle, adult or non-adult beefalo, adult or non-adult buffalo or bison, deer, elk, emus, equine, goats, llamas, reindeer, or sheep;
(2) Except for livestock losses resulting from gathering livestock to treat cattle tick fever, be livestock that would normally have been grazing the eligible grazing land or pastureland during the normal grazing period for the specific type of grazing land or pastureland for the county where the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition occurred;
(3) Be livestock that is owned, cash-leased, purchased, under contract for purchase, or been raised by a contract grower or an eligible livestock owner, for not less than 60 days before the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition; and
(4) Be livestock produced or maintained for commercial use or be livestock that is produced or maintained for producing livestock products for commercial use, such as milk from dairy, as part of the contract grower's or livestock owner's farming operation on the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition.
(b) The eligible livestock types for grazing and feed losses; losses resulting from transporting water, feed, and livestock; and gathering livestock to treat for cattle tick fever are:
(1) Adult beef cows or bulls,
(2) Adult beefalo cows or bulls,
(3) Adult buffalo or bison cows or bulls,
(4) Adult dairy cows or bulls,
(5) Alpacas,
(6) Deer,
(7) Elk,
(8) Emus,
(9) Equine,
(10) Goats,
(11) Llamas,
(12) Non-adult beef cattle,
(13) Non-adult beefalo,
(14) Non-adult buffalo or bison,
(15) Non-adult dairy cattle,
(16) Ostriches,
(17) Reindeer, and
(18) Sheep.
(c) Ineligible livestock for grazing and feed losses and losses resulting from transporting water, feed, and livestock include, but are not limited to:
(1) Livestock that were or would have been in a feedlot, on the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, as a part of the normal business operation of the producer, as determined by FSA;
(2) Animals that are not grazing animals;
(3) Yaks;
(4) Poultry;
(5) Swine;
(6) All unweaned beef and dairy cattle, and buffalo or bison and beefalo that weighed less than 500 pounds on the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition; and
(7) Livestock that are not produced for commercial use or those that are not produced or maintained in a commercial operation for livestock products, such as milk from dairy, including, but not limited to:
(i) Any wild free roaming livestock;
(ii) Horses and other animals used or intended to be used for racing or wagering;
(iii) Animals produced or maintained for hunting; and
(iv) Animals produced or maintained for consumption by owner.
(d) Under ELAP, “contract growers” only includes producers of livestock, other than feedlots, whose income is dependent on any of the following: Actual weight gain of the livestock, number of offspring produced from the livestock, or quantity of products (eggs, milk, etc.) produced from the livestock.
(e) For honeybee colony, hive, and feed losses to be eligible, the honeybee colony must meet the following conditions:
(1) Been maintained for the purpose of producing honey or pollination for commercial use in a farming operation on the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition;
(2) Been physically located in the county where the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition occurred on the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition;
(3) Been a honeybee colony in which the participant has a risk in the honey production or pollination farming operation on the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition;
(4) Been a honeybee colony for which the producer had an eligible loss of a honeybee colony, honeybee hive, or honeybee feed; the feed must have been intended as feed for honeybees.
(f) For fish to be eligible to generate payments under ELAP, the fish must be produced in a controlled environment and the farm-raised fish must:
(1) For feed losses:
(i) Be an aquatic species that is propagated and reared in a controlled environment;
(ii) Be maintained and harvested for commercial use as part of a farming operation; and
(iii) Be physically located in the county where the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition occurred on the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition.
(2) For death losses:
(i) Be bait fish, game fish, or another aquatic species deemed eligible by the Deputy Administrator that are propagated and reared in a controlled environment;
(ii) Been maintained for commercial use as part of a farming operation; and
(iii) Been physically located in the county where the eligible loss adverse weather or eligible loss condition occurred on the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition.
(g) To be considered eligible for milk losses due to H5N1, livestock must be adult dairy cows that are:
(1) Currently in one of the lactation phases (early, mid, or late) of their lactation cycle and producing milk in which the producer had financial risk at the time of the positive H5N1 test collection date;
(2) Owned, cash-leased, purchased, or been raised by a contract grower or eligible livestock owner, for not less than 60 days before the date of the eligible loss condition;
(3) Maintained for commercial milk production as part of the producer's farming operation on the positive H5N1 test collection date;
(4) Part of a herd that has a minimum of one positive H5N1 test; and
(5) Initially removed from commercial milk production due to confirmed or suspected H5N1 infection at some point during the time period beginning 14 days before the positive H5N1 test collection date through 120 days after the positive H5N1 test collection date.
(h) An adult dairy cow that meets the requirements of paragraph (g) of this section is considered eligible to be reported for payment only for the month in which it is initially removed from commercial milk production due to confirmed or suspected H5N1 infection. In order to prevent duplicate benefits for the same loss, an adult dairy cow cannot be reported as an eligible animal for any subsequent month after the initial month of eligibility unless the animal has returned to milk production and is later removed from milk production due to a new infection after the initial 120 day eligibility from an APHIS confirmed positive test within the herd. During the 120 day time period after a positive H5N1 test collection date, an animal is only eligible for payment one time, based on the positive H5N1 test for that herd.
79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 49465, Oct. 2, 2018;85 FR 10964, Feb. 26, 2020; 87 FR 19785, Apr. 6, 2022; 88 FR 1891, Jan. 11, 2023; 89 FR 54335, July 1, 2024]
§ 1416.105
Eligible producers, owners, and contract growers.
(a) To be considered an eligible livestock producer and receive payments for feed losses; losses resulting from transporting water, feed, or livestock; and gathering livestock to treat for cattle tick fever; the participant must have:
(1) Owned, cash-leased, purchased, entered into a contract to purchase, or been a contract grower of eligible livestock for not less than 60 days before the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition; and
(2) Had a loss that is determined to be eligible as specified in § 1416.103(d) or (f).
(b) To be considered an eligible livestock producer for grazing losses and to receive payments, the participant must have:
(1) Owned, cash-leased, purchased, entered into a contract to purchase, or been a contract grower of eligible livestock for not less than 60 days before the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition;
(2) Had a loss that is determined to be eligible as specified in § 1416.103(e);
(3) Had eligible livestock that would normally have been grazing the eligible grazing land or pastureland during the normal grazing period for the specific type of grazing land or pastureland for the county;
(4) Provided for the eligible livestock pastureland or grazing land, including cash leased pastureland or grazing land for eligible livestock that is physically located in the county where the eligible adverse weather or loss condition occurred during the normal grazing period for the county.
(c) To be considered an eligible honeybee producer, a participant must have an interest and risk in an eligible honeybee colony, as specified in § 1416.104(e), for the purpose of producing honey or pollination for commercial use as part of a farming operation and must have had a loss that is determined to be eligible as specified in § 1416.103(h).
(d) To be considered an eligible farm-raised fish producer for feed and death loss purposes, the participant must have produced eligible farm-raised fish, as specified in § 1416.104(f), with the intent to harvest for commercial use as part of a farming operation and must have had a loss that is determined to be eligible as specified in § 1416.103(i);
(e) A producer seeking payments must not be ineligible under the restrictions applicable to foreign persons contained in § 1416.3(b) and must meet all other requirements of subpart A of this part and other applicable USDA regulations.
(f) To be considered an eligible producer for the purpose of milk losses due to H5N1, the producer must have:
(1) Owned, cash-leased, purchased, or been a contract grower of eligible adult dairy cows, as specified in § 1416.104(g), for not less than 60 days before the positive H5N1 test collection date;
(2) Had financial risk in the milk production of the eligible adult dairy cows, as specified in § 1416.104(g), on the positive H5N1 test collection date; and
(3) Had an eligible loss as specified in § 1416.103(j).
[79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 49466, Oct. 2, 2018; 85 FR 10964, Feb, 26, 2020; 87 FR 19785, Apr. 6, 2022; 89 FR 54335, July 1, 2024]
§ 1416.106
Notice of loss and application process.
(a) To apply for ELAP, the participant that suffered eligible livestock, honeybee, or farm-raised fish losses must submit, to the FSA county office, the following:
(1) A notice of loss to FSA as specified in § 1416.107(a),
(2) A completed application as specified in § 1416.107(b) for one or more of the following:
(i) For livestock feed and grazing losses; losses resulting from transporting water, feed, and livestock; and gathering livestock to treat for cattle tick fever; a completed Emergency Loss Assistance for Livestock Application;
(ii) For honeybee feed, honeybee colony, honeybee hive, or farm-raised fish feed or death losses, a completed Emergency Loss Assistance for Honeybees or Farm-Raised Fish Application;
(iii) For milk losses due to H5N1, a completed Emergency Loss Assistance for H5N1 Application;
(3) A report of acreage, if applicable, as determined by the Deputy Administrator;
(4) A copy of the participant's grower contract, if the participant is a contract grower;
(5) Other supporting documents required for FSA to determine eligibility of the participant, livestock, honeybee colonies, hives, farm-raised fish, and loss;
(6) A farm operating plan, if a current farm operating plan is not already on file in the FSA county office; and
(7) A socially disadvantaged, limited resource, beginning, or veteran farmer or rancher certification, if applicable.
(b) For livestock grazing losses, participant must provide acceptable, verifiable, or reliable records that:
(1) Additional livestock feed was fed to sustain eligible livestock during an eligible adverse weather or loss condition, or
(2) Eligible livestock were removed from the eligible grazing land where the grazing loss occurred.
(c) For livestock, honeybee, or farm-raised fish feed losses, participant must provide acceptable, verifiable, or reliable records of the following as determined by the COC:
(1) Purchased feed intended as feed for livestock, honeybees, or farm-raised fish that was lost, or additional feed purchased above normal quantities to sustain livestock, honeybees,
and farm-raised fish for a period of time, not to exceed 150 days, until additional feed becomes available, due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition. Verifiable or reliable records may include, but are not limited to, feed receipts, invoices, settlement sheets, warehouse ledger sheets, load summaries, register tapes, and contemporaneous records.
(2) Harvested feed intended as feed for livestock, honeybees, or farm-raised fish that was lost due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition. Verifiable or reliable records may include, but are not limited to, weight tickets, truck scale tickets, pick records, contemporaneous records used to verify that the crop was stored with the intent to feed the crop to livestock, honeybees, or farm-raised fish, and custom harvest documents that clearly identify the amount of feed produced from the applicable acreage.
(3) Additional cost of transporting livestock feed to eligible livestock due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition as determined by the Deputy Administrator, including, but not limited to, costs associated with equipment rental fees for hay lifts and snow removal. Verifiable or reliable records may include, but are not limited to, invoices, commercial receipts, load summaries, and contemporaneous records used to verify transportation cost of additional livestock feed.
(4) Additional cost of transporting water to eligible livestock due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition as determined by the Deputy Administrator, including, but not limited to, costs associated with water transport equipment rental fees, labor, and contracted water transportation fees. Verifiable or reliable records include, but are not limited to, commercial receipts, contemporaneous records and invoices. Records must clearly indicate the dates on which water was transported and the total gallons transported.
(5) Additional cost incurred to transport eligible livestock to feed or livestock feed to eligible livestock for additional mileage above normal, due to an eligible adverse weather, an eligible loss condition, or eligible drought, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, including costs associated with treating livestock feed to prevent the spread of invasive pests. Verifiable or reliable records include, but are not limited to, commercial receipts, contemporaneous records, and invoices. Records must clearly indicate the dates on which livestock or feed was transported and the total mileage transported.
(d) For eligible honeybee colony, honeybee hive and farm-raised fish losses, the participant must provide verifiable or reliable records of honeybee colony, hive, or farm-raised fish losses. For honeybee colony and hive losses, the participant must also provide verifiable or reliable records of inventory at the beginning of the program year, and records of purchase and sale transactions of honeybee colonies and hives throughout the program year. If the participant was paid for a loss of honeybee colony or honeybee hive in either or both of the 2 previous years, the participant must provide documentation that FSA deems acceptable to substantiate how current year honeybee colony and honeybee hive inventory was acquired. For farm-raised fish losses, the participant must also provide verifiable or reliable records of inventory on the beginning date and ending date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition. Verifiable and reliable records may include, but are not limited to, any combination of the following:
(1) A report of acreage,
(2) Loan records,
(3) Private insurance documents,
(4) Property tax records,
(5) Sales and purchase receipts,
(6) State colony registration documentation, and
(7) Chattel inspections.
(e) If verifiable or reliable records are not available or provided, as required in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, the COC may accept producer's certification of losses if similar producers have comparable losses, as determined by the COC and approved by the STC (FSA State Committee).This paragraph does not apply to documentation for milk losses due to H5N1.
(f) For milk losses due to H5N1, the producer must provide to FSA a positive H5N1 test at the time the application for payment is filed. The producer must also provide current and prior year milk production records and herd inventory records if requested by FSA to substantiate the certified number of eligible adult dairy cows removed from production through a comparison of the per head production rates for the current and prior years. If requested by FSA, the producer must also provide any other records necessary to substantiate the information provided on the producer's application, including the producer's share of the milk production. An eligible adult dairy cow must be reported on the application for the month it was initially removed from milk production and cannot be included in subsequent months in the same application for payment. If the producer removes adult dairy cows from commercial milk production due to H5N1 infection more than 120 days after the positive H5N1 test reported to FSA, the producer must submit another notice of loss and application for payment for the subsequent positive H5N1 test after the initial 120 day eligibility from an APHIS confirmed positive test within the herd.
[79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 49466, Oct. 2, 2018; 85 FR 10964, Feb. 26, 2020; 87 FR 19786, Apr. 6, 2022; 89 FR 54335, July 1, 2024]
§ 1416.107
Notice of loss and application period.
(a) In addition to submitting an application for payment by the deadline in paragraph (b) of this section, the participant that suffered eligible livestock, honeybee, or farm-raised fish losses that create or could create a claim for benefits must:
(1) For losses other than honeybees and milk, provide a notice of loss to FSA within 30 calendar days of when the loss of livestock is first apparent;
(2) For honeybee losses, provide a notice of loss together with documentation required by § 1416.103 to FSA within 15 calendar days of when the loss is first apparent;
(3) For milk losses due to H5N1, provide a notice of loss and positive H5N1 test result required by § 1416.106(f) to FSA by the application for payment deadline in paragraph (b) of this section;
(4) Submit the notice of loss required in this paragraph to the FSA county office.
(b) In addition to the notices of loss required in paragraph (a) of this section, a participant seeking payment must also submit a completed application for payment by 30 calendar days after the end of the applicable program year.
[85 FR 10965, Feb. 26, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 54335, July 1, 2024]
§ 1416.108
[Reserved]
1416.109
National payment rate.
(a) For an eligible livestock, honeybee, or farm-raised fish producer that meets the definition of beginning farmer or rancher, veteran farmer or rancher, socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher, or limited resource farmer or rancher, payments calculated in §§ 1416.110 through 1416.112 will be based on a national payment rate of 90 percent.
(b) For an eligible livestock, honeybee, or farm-raised fish producer, payments calculated in §§ 1416.110(a), (b), (f), (g) and (l), 1416.111(a), and 1416.112(a), will be based on a national payment rate, to be determined by the Deputy Administrator, of not less than 60 percent and not more than 80 percent of the calculated payment.
(c) For an eligible livestock, honeybee, or farm-raised fish producer, payments calculated in § 1416.11(b) and (c), and 1416.112(b), will be based on a national payment rate, to be determined by the Deputy Administrator, of not less than 75 percent and not more than 80 percent of the calculated payment.
(d) For an eligible livestock producer with milk losses due to H5N1, payments calculated in § 1416.113 will be based on a national payment rate of 90 percent.
[79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 10965, Feb. 26, 2020; 89 FR 54335, July 1, 2024]
§ 1416.110
Livestock payment calculations.
(a) Livestock feed payments for an eligible livestock producer will be calculated based on losses for no more than 150 days during the program year. Payment calculations for feed losses will be based on a national payment rate, as specified in § 1416.109, multiplied by the producer's actual cost for:
(1) Livestock feed that was purchased forage or feedstuffs intended for use as feed for the participant's eligible livestock that was physically damaged or destroyed due to the direct result of an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, as specified in § 1416.103(d)(1);
(2) Livestock feed that was mechanically harvested forage or feedstuffs intended for use as feed for the participant's eligible livestock that was physically damaged or destroyed after harvest due to the direct result of an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, as specified in § 1416.103(d)(2);
(3) The additional cost of purchasing additional livestock feed above normal quantities, required to maintain the eligible livestock during an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition until additional livestock feed becomes available, as specified in § 1416.103(d)(3); and
(4) The additional cost incurred for transporting livestock feed to eligible livestock due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, as specified in § 1416.103(d)(4).
(b) Payments for losses resulting from the additional cost of transporting water to eligible livestock due to an eligible adverse weather, eligible loss condition, or eligible drought for no more than 150 days during the program year, as specified in § 1416.103(d)(5) will be calculated based on a national payment rate, as determined in § 1416.109, multiplied by the lesser of either:
(1) The total value of the cost to transport water to eligible livestock for 150 days, based on the daily water requirements for the eligible livestock, or
(2) The total value of the cost to transport water to eligible livestock for the program year, based on the actual number of gallons of water the eligible producer transported to eligible livestock for the program year.
(c) The total value of the cost to transport water to eligible livestock for 150 days to be used in the calculation for paragraph (b)(1) of this section is equal to the product obtained by multiplying:
(1) The number of eligible livestock converted to an animal unit basis;
(2) The gallons of water required per animal unit for maintenance for one day, as determined by the Deputy Administrator;
(3) The national average price per gallon to transport water and any appropriate regional or local adjustments as recommended by the STC and determined by the Deputy Administrator; and
(4) 150 days.
(d) The total value of the cost to transport water to eligible livestock for the program year to be used in the calculation for paragraph (b)(2) of this section is equal to the product obtained by multiplying:
(1) Actual number of gallons of water transported by the eligible producer to eligible livestock in the program year; and
(2) The national average price per gallon to transport water and any appropriate regional or local adjustments as recommended by the STC and determined by the Deputy Administrator.
(e) The national average price per gallon to transport water to be used in the calculation for paragraphs (c)(3) and (d)(2) of this section is $0.04, or such other price determined by the Deputy Administrator.
(f) Payments for an eligible livestock producer, for livestock losses resulting from the additional cost associated with gathering livestock to treat or inspect for cattle tick fever will be calculated for the actual number of livestock involved in each treatment or inspection. Total payments are equal to the sum of the following for each treatment or inspection:
(1) The national payment rate, as determined in § 1416.109, times
(2) The number of eligible livestock treated or inspected by APHIS for cattle tick fever, times
(3) The average cost to gather livestock, per head, as established by the Deputy Administrator.
(g) Payments for an eligible livestock producer for grazing losses, except for losses due to wildfires on non-Federal land, will be calculated based on the applicable national payment rate, as determined in § 1416.109, multiplied by the lesser of:
(1) The total value of the feed cost for all covered livestock owned by the eligible livestock producer based on the number of days grazing was lost, not to exceed 150 days of daily feed cost for all eligible livestock, or
(2) The total value of grazing lost for all eligible livestock based on the normal carrying capacity, as determined by the Secretary, of the eligible grazing land of the eligible livestock producer for the number of grazing days lost, not to exceed 150 days of lost grazing.
(h) The total value of feed cost to be used in the calculation for paragraph (g)(1) of this section is based on the number of days grazing was lost and equals the product obtained by multiplying:
(1) A payment quantity equal to the feed grain equivalent, as determined in paragraph (i) of this section;
(2) A payment rate equal to the corn price per pound, as determined in paragraph (j) of this section;
(3) The number of all eligible livestock owned by the eligible producer converted to an animal unit basis;
(4) The number of days grazing was lost, not to exceed 150 calendar days during the normal grazing period for the specific type of grazing land; and
(5) The producer's ownership share in the livestock.
(i) The feed grain equivalent to be used in the calculation for paragraph (g)(1) of this section equals, in the case of:
(1) An adult beef cow, 15.7 pounds of corn per day, or
(2) Any other type or weight of livestock, an amount determined by the Secretary that represents the average number of pounds of corn per day necessary to feed that specific type of livestock.
(j) The corn price per pound to be used in the calculation for paragraph (h)(2) of this section equals the quotient calculated as follows:
(1) The higher of:
(i) The national average corn price per bushel of corn for the 12-month period immediately preceding March 1 of the program year for which payments are calculated; or
(ii) The national average corn price per bushel of corn for the 24-month period immediately preceding March 1 of the program year for which payments are calculated;
(2) Divided by 56.
(k) The total value of grazing lost to be used in the calculation for paragraph (h)(2) of this section equals the product obtained by multiplying:
(1) A payment quantity equal to the feed grain equivalent of 15.7 pounds of corn per day;
(2) A payment rate equal to the corn price per pound, as determined in paragraph (j) of this section;
(3) The number of animal units the eligible livestock producer's grazing land or pastureland can sustain during the normal grazing period in the county for the specific type of grazing land or pastureland, in the absence of an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, determined by dividing the:
(i) Number of eligible grazing land or pastureland acres of the specific type of grazing land or pastureland, by
(ii) The normal carrying capacity of the specific type of eligible grazing land or pastureland; and
(4) The number of days grazing was lost, not to exceed 150 calendar days during the normal grazing period for the specific type of grazing land.
(l) Payments for an eligible livestock producer for grazing losses due to a wildfire on non-Federal land will be calculated based on the applicable national payment rate, as determined in § 1416.109, multiplied by:
(1) The result of dividing:
(i) The number of acres of grazing land or pastureland acres affected by the fire, by
(ii) The normal carrying capacity of the specific type of eligible grazing land or pastureland; times
(2) The daily value of grazing as calculated by FSA under this section; times
(3) The number of days grazing was lost due to fire, not to exceed 180 calendar days;
(m) If a participant, during the normal grazing period for the eligible grazing land, claims both an eligible loss resulting from the additional cost of purchasing additional livestock feed above normal quantities, as calculated in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, and an eligible grazing loss, as calculated in paragraphs (g) or (l) of this section, then the participant may receive no more than the larger of the value of the loss resulting from the:
(1) Additional cost of purchasing additional livestock feed, as calculated in paragraph (a)(3) of this section; or
(2) Grazing loss, as determined in:
(i) Paragraph (g) of this section, for losses due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, except wildfires on non-Federal lands, or
(ii) Paragraph (l) of this section, for losses due to wildfires on non-Federal lands.
(n) Payments for losses resulting from the additional cost of transporting eligible livestock to feed or livestock feed to eligible livestock, for additional mileage above normal, in excess of 25 miles per truckload and for no more than 1,000 miles per truckload of livestock or livestock feed during the program year, as specified in § 1416.103(d)(6) will be calculated based on a national payment rate, as determined in § 1416.109, multiplied by:
(1) The national average price per mile to transport a truckload of livestock or livestock feed; and
(2) The actual number of additional miles above normal to transport livestock or livestock feed by an eligible producer, in excess of 25 miles per truckload of livestock or feed and for no more than 1,000 miles per truckload of livestock or feed during the program year.
(o) The national average price per mile to transport a truckload of livestock or feed to be used in the calculation for paragraph (n)(1) of this section is determined by the Deputy Administrator for each program year using a national cost formula developed by FSA based on the cost of hauling feed or livestock above normal mileage, not to include the first 25 miles. The national average price per mile considers the average cost for hauling a truckload of forage or livestock from sources 200 miles away. The Deputy Administrator may determine a different price per mile for a particular state, if the Deputy Administrator determines that a different price is necessary due to differences in state hauling costs compared to national average costs. The original physical location of the livestock will determine the applicable state for payment purposes.
(p) Payments for losses resulting from costs associated with treating livestock feed transported above normal to prevent the spread of invasive pests, as specified in § 1416.103(d)(6), will be calculated based on a national payment rate, as determined in § 1416.109, multiplied by the producer's actual cost for controlling invasive pests in livestock feed transported above normal.
(q) Payments calculated in this section are subject to the adjustments and limits provided for in this part.
[79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 10965, Feb, 26, 2020; 87 FR 19786, Apr. 6, 2022]
§ 1416.111
Honeybee payment calculations.
(a) An eligible honeybee producer may receive payments for eligible honeybee feed losses, as specified in § 1416.103(h), based on a national payment rate, as determined in § 1416.109, multiplied by the producer's actual cost for honeybee feed that was:
(1) Damaged or destroyed due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, as specified in § 1416.103(h)(1); and
(2) Purchased, above normal, to maintain the honeybees during an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition until additional honeybee feed becomes available, as specified in § 1416.103(h)(2);
(b) An eligible honeybee producer may receive payments for eligible honeybee colony losses, as specified in § 1416.103(i), based on a national payment rate, as determined in § 1416.109(b), multiplied by:
(1) Average fair market value of the honeybee colonies as computed using nationwide prices unless some other
price data is approved for use by the Deputy Administrator; and
(2) Number of eligible honeybee colonies that were damaged or destroyed due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, in excess of normal honeybee mortality, as determined by the Deputy Administrator.
(c) An eligible honeybee producer may receive payments for eligible honeybee hive losses, as specified in § 1416.103(i), based on a national payment rate, as determined in § 1416.109, multiplied by:
(1) Average fair market value for honeybee hives as computed using nationwide prices unless some other price data is approved for use by the Deputy Administrator; and
(2) Number of honeybee hives that were damaged or destroyed due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition.
(d) Payments calculated in this section are subject to the adjustments and limits provided for in this part.
§ 1416.112
Farm-raised fish payment calculations.
(a) An eligible farm-raised fish producer may receive payments for fish feed losses due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, as specified in § 1416.103(h), based on a national payment rate, as determined in § 1416.109, multiplied by the producer's actual cost for the fish feed that was:
(1) Damaged or destroyed due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, as specified in § 1416.103(h)(1); and
(2) Purchased, above normal, to maintain the farm-raised fish during an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition until additional farm-raised fish feed becomes available, as specified in § 1416.103(h)(2).
(b) An eligible producer of farm-raised fish may receive payments for death losses of farm-raised fish due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, as specified in § 1416.103(j), based on a national payment rate, as determined in § 1416.109, multiplied by:
(1) Average fair market value of the bait fish, game fish, or other aquatic species, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, that died as a direct result of an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, as computed using nationwide prices unless some other price data is approved for use by the Deputy Administrator; and
(2) Number of eligible bait fish, game fish, or other aquatic species, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, that died as a result of an eligible adverse weather or loss condition, in excess of normal mortality, as determined by the Deputy Administrator.
(c) Payments calculated in this section or elsewhere with respect to ELAP are subject to the adjustments and limits provided for in this part and are also subject to the payment limitations and average adjusted gross income limitations that are contained in part 1400 of this chapter.
§ 1416.113
Milk losses due to H5N1.
(a) Payments for milk losses due to H5N1 are based on a standard number of days of lost production and the expected production for an eligible adult dairy cow. The payment for milk losses due to H5N1 is equal to the payment rate per head specified in paragraph (b) of this section, multiplied by the number of eligible adult dairy cows specified in § 1416.109(g), multiplied by the producer's share of milk production from the eligible adult dairy cows, multiplied by the national payment rate specified in § 1416.109(d).
(b) The payment rate per head varies by month and is equal to the expected milk production loss for an eligible adult dairy cow, as determined by FSA, multiplied by the all-milk price. The applicable payment rate will be determined by the month in which an eligible adult dairy cow was removed from milk production, as reported on the application. To determine the expected milk production loss for an eligible adult dairy cow, FSA will:
(1) Determine the daily expected production by dividing the total expected production for 28 days of production, as determined by FSA based on a month-specific national production value obtained from NASS data, by 28 days; and
(2) Calculate the sum of:
(i) The result of paragraph (b)(1) of this section multiplied by 21 days, and
(ii) The result of paragraph (b)(1) of this section multiplied by 7 days, multiplied by 50 percent.
(c) Payments calculated in this section are subject to the adjustments and limits provided for in this part.
[89 FR 54335, July 1, 2024]

# Subpart C—Livestock Forage Disaster Program
§ 1416.201
Applicability.
(a) This subpart establishes the terms and conditions under which the Livestock Forage Disaster Program (LFP) will be administered.
(b) Eligible livestock owners or contract growers who are eligible producers of eligible grazed forage crop acreage will be compensated for eligible grazing losses for covered livestock that occur due to a qualifying drought or fire that occurs in the calendar year for which benefits are being requested.
[79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 10965, Feb. 26, 2020]
§ 1416.202
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this subpart and to the administration of LFP. The definitions in parts 718 of this title and 1400 of this chapter also apply, except where they conflict with the definitions in this section.
Adult beef bull
means a male beef breed bovine animal that was at least 2 years old and used for breeding purposes on or before the beginning date of a qualifying drought or fire.
Adult beef cow
means a female beef breed bovine animal that had delivered one or more offspring. A first-time bred beef heifer is also considered an adult beef cow if it was pregnant on or before the beginning date of a qualifying drought or fire.
Adult beefalo bull
means a male hybrid of beef and bison that was used for breeding purposes and was at least 2 years old before the beginning date of the qualifying drought or fire.
Adult beefalo cow
means a female hybrid of beef and bison that had delivered one or more offspring before the beginning date of the qualifying drought or fire. A first-time bred beefalo heifer is also considered an adult beefalo cow if it was pregnant by the beginning date of the qualifying drought or fire.
Adult buffalo or bison bull
means a male animal of those breeds that was used for breeding purposes and was at least 2 years old before the beginning date of the qualifying drought or fire.
Adult buffalo or bison cow
means a female animal of those breeds that had delivered one or more offspring before the beginning date of the qualifying drought or fire. A first-time bred buffalo or bison heifer is also considered an adult buffalo or bison cow if it was pregnant by the beginning date of the qualifying drought or fire.
Adult dairy bull
means a male dairy breed bovine animal at least 2 years old used primarily for breeding dairy cows on or before the beginning date of a qualifying drought or fire.
Adult dairy cow
means a female dairy breed bovine animal used for the purpose of providing milk for human consumption that had delivered one or more offspring. A first-time bred dairy heifer is also considered an adult dairy cow if it was pregnant on or before the beginning date of a qualifying drought or fire.
Agricultural operation
means a farming operation.
Application
means the “Livestock Forage Disaster Program” form.
Commercial use
means used in the operation of a business activity engaged in as a means of livelihood for profit by the eligible livestock producer.
Contract
means, with respect to contracts for the handling of livestock, a written agreement between a livestock owner and another individual or entity setting the specific terms, conditions, and obligations of the parties involved regarding the production of livestock or livestock products.
Contract grower
means a person or legal entity, other than a feedlot, that was engaged in a farming operation not as an owner of covered livestock but in a business whose income is dependent on either the actual weight gain of the livestock or number of offspring produced from the livestock.
Covered livestock
means livestock of an eligible livestock producer that, during the 60 days prior to the beginning date of a qualifying drought or fire, the eligible livestock producer
owned, leased, purchased, entered into a contract to purchase, was a contract grower of, or sold or otherwise disposed of due to a qualifying drought during the current production year. It includes livestock that the producer otherwise disposed of due to drought in one or both of the two production years immediately preceding the current production year as determined by the Secretary. Notwithstanding the foregoing portions of this definition, covered livestock will not include livestock in feedlots.
Equine animal
means a weaned domesticated horse, mule, or donkey.
Farming operation
means a business enterprise engaged in producing agricultural products.
Federal Agency
means, with respect to the control of grazing land, an agency of the federal government that manages rangeland on which livestock is generally permitted to graze. For the purposes of this section, it includes, but is not limited to, the U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI), Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA), Bureau of Land Management (BLM), and USDA Forest Service (FS).
Goat
means a weaned domesticated, ruminant mammal of the genus
Capra,
including Angora goats.
Grazing animals
mean those species of weaned livestock that, from a nutritional and physiological perspective, satisfy more than 50 percent of their net energy requirement through the consumption of growing forage grasses and legumes. Species of livestock for which more than 50 percent of their net energy requirements are not recommended to be met from consumption of forage grasses and legumes, such as poultry and swine, are excluded regardless of whether those species are present on grazing land or pastureland. Unweaned livestock are excluded as grazing animals regardless of whether those unweaned livestock are present on grazing land or pastureland.
Non-adult beef cattle
means a weaned beef breed bovine animal that on or before the beginning date of a qualifying drought or fire does not meet the definition of adult beef cow or bull.
Non-adult beefalo
means a weaned hybrid of beef and bison that on or before the beginning date of the qualifying drought or fire does not meet the definition of adult beefalo cow or bull.
Non-adult buffalo or bison
means a weaned animal of those breeds that on or before the beginning date of beginning date of the qualifying drought or fire does not meet the definition of adult buffalo or bison cow or bull.
Non-adult dairy cattle
means a weaned bovine animal, of a breed used for the purpose of providing milk for human consumption, that on or before the beginning date of a qualifying drought or fire does not meet the definition of adult dairy cow or bull.
Normal carrying capacity
means, with respect to each type of grazing land or pastureland in a county, the normal carrying capacity that would be expected from the grazing land or pastureland for livestock during the normal grazing period in the county, in the absence of a drought or fire that diminishes the production of the grazing land or pastureland.
Normal grazing period
means, as determined by FSA, with respect to a specific type of grazing land or pastureland in the county, the period during the calendar year when grazing animals receive daily nutrients and satisfy net energy requirements without supplemental feed.
Owner
means one who had legal ownership of the livestock for which benefits are being requested during the 60 days prior to the beginning of a qualifying drought or fire.
Sheep
means a weaned domesticated, ruminant mammal of the genus
Ovis.
U.S. Drought Monitor
is a system for classifying drought severity according to a range of abnormally dry to exceptional drought. It is a collaborative effort between Federal and academic partners, produced on a weekly basis, to synthesize multiple indices, outlooks, and drought impacts on a map and in narrative form. This synthesis of indices is reported by the National Drought Mitigation Center at
http://droughtmonitor.unl.edu.
Unweaned livestock
means an animal not weaned from mother's milk or milk replacement to other nourishment.
[79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 49466, Oct. 2, 2018; 85 FR 10965, Feb. 26, 2020]
§ 1416.203
Eligibility.
(a) In addition to meeting all other requirements, to be eligible for benefits under this subpart, an individual or legal entity with an eligible producer interest in grazing land acreage who is either an owner or contract grower of grazing animals, must:
(1) During the 60 days prior to the beginning date of a qualifying drought or fire, own, cash or share lease, or be a contract grower of covered livestock.
(2) As of the date of the qualifying drought or fire provide pastureland or grazing land for covered livestock, including cash-leased pastureland or grazing land, that is:
(i) Physically located in a county affected by a qualifying drought during the normal grazing period for the specific forage crop acreage in the county, or
(ii) Rangeland managed by a Federal agency for which the otherwise eligible livestock producer is prohibited by the Federal agency from grazing the normal permitted livestock due to a qualifying fire.
(b) The eligible livestock producer must have certified that the livestock producer has suffered a grazing loss due to a qualifying drought or fire to be eligible for LFP payments.
(c) An eligible livestock producer does not include any owner, cash or share lessee, or contract grower of livestock that rents or leases pastureland or grazing land owned by another person on a rate-of-gain basis. (That is, where the lease or rental agreement calls for payment based in whole or in part on the amount of weight gained by the animals that use the pastureland or grazing land.)
(d) A producer seeking payment must not be prohibited from receiving these benefits as a result of the restrictions applicable to foreign persons contained in § 1416.3(b) and must meet all other requirements of subpart A of this part and other applicable USDA regulations.
(e) If a contract grower is an eligible livestock producer for covered livestock, the owner of that livestock is not eligible for payment.
[79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 49467, Oct. 2, 2018; 85 FR 10965, Feb. 26, 2020]
§ 1416.204
Covered livestock.
(a) To be considered covered livestock for LFP payments, livestock must meet all the following conditions:
(1) Be grazing animals such as adult or non-adult beef cattle, adult or non-adult beefalo, adult or non-adult buffalo or bison, adult or non-adult dairy cattle, alpacas, deer, elk, emus, equine, goats, llamas, ostriches, reindeer, or sheep;
(2) Be livestock that would normally have been grazing the eligible grazing land or pastureland:
(i) During the normal grazing period for the specific type of grazing land or pastureland for the county during the qualifying drought; or
(ii) When the Federal agency prohibited the eligible livestock producer from using the managed rangeland for grazing due to a fire;
(3) Be livestock that the eligible livestock producer:
(i) During the 60 days prior to the beginning date of a qualifying drought or fire:
(A) Owned,
(B) Leased,
(C) Purchased,
(D) Entered into a contract to purchase, or
(E) Was a contract grower of; or
(ii) Sold or otherwise disposed of due to qualifying drought during:
(A) The current production year, or
(B) 1 or both of the 2 production years immediately preceding the current production year;
(4) Been livestock produced or maintained for commercial use or be livestock that is produced and maintained for producing livestock products for commercial use, such as milk from dairy, as part of the contract grower's or livestock owner's farming operation on the beginning date of the qualifying drought or fire;
(5) Not have been produced and maintained for reasons other than commercial use as part of a farming operation. Such excluded uses include, but are not limited to:
(i) Any uses of wild free roaming livestock;
(ii) Racing or wagering;
(iii) Hunting; and
(iv) Consumption by owner; and
(6) Not have been livestock that were or would have been in a feedlot, on the beginning date of the qualifying drought or fire, as a part of the normal business operation of the eligible livestock producer, as determined by the Secretary.
(b) The covered livestock categories are:
(1) Adult beef cows or bulls,
(2) Adult beefalo cows or bulls,
(3) Adult buffalo or bison cows or bulls,
(3) Adult dairy cows or bulls,
(4) Alpacas,
(5) Deer,
(6) Elk,
(7) Emu,
(8) Equine,
(9) Goats,
(10) Llamas,
(11) Non-adult beef cattle,
(12) Non-adult beefalo,
(13) Non-adult buffalo or bison,
(14) Non-adult dairy cattle,
(15) Ostriches,
(16) Reindeer, and
(17) Sheep.
(c) Livestock that are not covered include, but are not limited to:
(1) Livestock that were or would have been in a feedlot, on the beginning date of the qualifying drought or fire, as a part of the normal business operation of the eligible livestock producer, as determined by the Secretary;
(2) Animals that are not grazing animals;
(3) Yaks;
(4) Poultry;
(5) Swine;
(6) Unweaned livestock or animals not meeting the definition of a grazing animal;
(7) Any wild free roaming livestock, including horses and deer; and
(8) Livestock produced or maintained for reasons other than commercial use, including, but not limited to, livestock produced or maintained for racing or wagering purposes, hunting, or consumption by owner.
[79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 49467, Oct. 2, 2018; 85 FR 10965, Feb. 26, 2020; 88 FR 1891, Jan. 11, 2023]
§ 1416.205
Eligible grazing losses.
(a) A grazing loss due to drought is eligible for LFP only if the grazing loss for the covered livestock occurs on land that:
(1) Is native or improved pastureland with permanent vegetative cover, or
(2) Is planted to a crop planted specifically for the purpose of providing grazing for covered livestock, as reported on the producer's acreage report, including crops such as forage sorghum, small grains, annual planted ryegrass, or annual planted crabgrass, but not including corn stalks or grain sorghum stalks; and
(3) Is grazing land or pastureland that is owned or leased by the eligible livestock producer that is physically located in a county that is, during the normal grazing period for the specific type of grazing land or pastureland for the county, rated by the U.S. Drought Monitor as having a:
(i) D2 (severe drought) intensity in any area of the county for at least 8 consecutive weeks during the normal grazing period for the specific type of grazing land or pastureland for the county, as determined by the Secretary, or
(ii) D3 (extreme drought) or D4 (exceptional drought) intensity in any area of the county at any time during the normal grazing period for the specific type of grazing land or pastureland for the county, as determined by the Secretary. (As specified elsewhere in this subpart, the amount of potential payment eligibility will be higher than under paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section where the D4 trigger applies or where the D3 condition as determined by the Secretary lasts at least 4 weeks during the normal grazing period for the specific type of grazing land or pastureland for the county.)
(b) A grazing loss is not eligible for LFP if:
(1) The grazing loss due to drought on land used for haying or grazing under the Conservation Reserve Program established under subchapter B of chapter 1 of subtitle D of title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3831-3835a), or
(2) The grazing loss occurs on irrigated land, unless the irrigated land has not been irrigated in the program year for which benefits are being requested due to the lack of surface
wateras a result of a qualifying eligible drought condition.
(c) A grazing loss due to fire qualifies for LFP only if:
(1) The grazing loss occurs on rangeland that is managed by a Federal agency and
(2) The eligible livestock producer is prohibited by the Federal agency from grazing the normal permitted livestock on the managed rangeland due to a fire.
[79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 49467, Oct. 2, 2018; 85 FR 10966, Feb. 26, 2020]
§ 1416.206
Application for payment.
(a) To apply for LFP, the participant that suffered eligible grazing losses for the 2019 and subsequent program years must submit a completed application and required supporting documentation, including some supporting documentation such as an acreage report that may have been required at an earlier date, to the administrative FSA county office no later than 30 calendar days after the end of the calendar year in which the grazing loss occurred.
(b) A participant must also provide a copy of the grower contract, if a contract grower, and other supporting documents required for determining eligibility as an applicant at the time the participant submits the completed application for payment. Supporting documents must include:
(1) Evidence of loss;
(2) Evidence that grazing land or pastureland is owned or leased;
(3) A report of acreage according to part 718 of this title for the grazing lands incurring losses for which assistance is being requested under this subpart;
(4) Adequate proof, as determined by FSA that the grazing loss:
(i) Was for the covered livestock;
(ii) If the loss of grazing occurred as the result of a fire, that the:
(A) Loss was due to a fire, and
(B) Participant was prohibited by the Federal agency from grazing the normal permitted livestock on the managed rangeland due to a fire; and
(iii) Occurred in the program year for which payments are being requested;
(5) A farm operating plan, if a current farm operating plan is not already on file in the FSA county office; and
(6) Any other supporting documentation as determined by FSA to be necessary to make a determination of eligibility of the participant. Supporting documents include, but are not limited to: Verifiable purchase and sales records; grower contracts; veterinarian records; bank or other loan papers; written contracts; production records; private insurance documents; sales records; and similar documents determined acceptable to FSA.
(c) [Reserved]
(d) Data furnished by the participant will be used to determine eligibility for program benefits. Furnishing the data is voluntary; however, without all required data, program benefits will not be approved or provided.
[79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014. Redesignated and amended at 83 FR 49467, Oct. 2, 2018; 85 FR 10966, Feb. 26, 2020]
§ 1416.207
Payment calculation.
(a) An eligible livestock producer will be eligible to receive payments for grazing losses for qualifying drought as specified in § 1416.205(a), calculated as specified in paragraphs (f) or (h) of this section. Total LFP payments to an eligible livestock producer in a calendar year for grazing losses due to qualifying drought will not exceed 5 monthly payments for the same livestock. Payments calculated in this section or elsewhere with respect to LFP are subject to the adjustments and limits provided for in this part and are also subject to the payment limitations and average adjusted gross income provisions that are contained in subpart A of this part. Payment may only be made to the extent that eligibility is specifically provided for in this subpart. Hence, with respect to drought, payments will be made only as representative to a “1-month” payment, a “3-month” payment, “4-month” payment, or a “5-month” payment based on the provisions of paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section.
(b) To be eligible to receive a 1-month payment, that is a payment equal to the monthly feed cost as determined under paragraph (h) of this section, the eligible livestock producer
must own or lease grazing land or pastureland that is physically located in a county that is rated by the U.S. Drought Monitor as having at least a D2 severe drought (intensity) in any area of the county for at least 8 consecutive weeks during the normal grazing period for the specific type of grazing land or pastureland in the county.
(c) To be eligible to receive a 3-month payment, that is a payment equal to three times the monthly feed cost as determined under paragraph (h) of this section, the eligible livestock producer must own or lease grazing land or pastureland that is physically located in a county that is rated by the U.S. Drought Monitor as having at least a D3 (extreme drought) intensity in any area of the county at any time during the normal grazing period for the specific type of grazing land or pastureland for the county.
(d) To be eligible to receive a 4-month payment, that is a payment equal to four times the monthly feed cost as determined under paragraph (h) of this section, the eligible livestock producer must own or lease grazing land or pastureland that is physically located in a county that is rated by the U.S. Drought Monitor as having at least a D3 (extreme drought) intensity in any area of the county for at least 4 weeks (not necessarily consecutive weeks) during the normal grazing period for the specific type of grazing land or pastureland for the county, or is rated as having a D4 (exceptional drought) intensity in any area of the county at any time during the normal grazing period for the specific type of grazing land or pastureland for the county.
(e) To be eligible to receive a 5-month payment, that is a payment equal to five times the monthly feed cost as determined under paragraph (h) of this section, the eligible livestock producer must own or lease grazing land or pastureland that is physically located in a county that is rated by the U.S. Drought Monitor as having at least a D4 (exceptional drought) in any area of the county for at least 4 weeks (not necessarily consecutive weeks) during the normal grazing period for the specific type of grazing land or pastureland for the county.
(f) The monthly payment rate for LFP for grazing losses due to a qualifying drought, except as specified in paragraph (h) of this section, will be equal to 60 percent of the lesser of:
(1) The monthly feed cost for all covered livestock owned or leased by the eligible livestock producer, as determined in paragraph (i) of this section, or
(2) The monthly feed cost calculated by using the normal carrying capacity of the eligible grazing land of the eligible livestock producer, as determined in paragraph (l) of this section.
(g) An eligible livestock producer cannot receive more than a 5-month payment for the same covered livestock during the calendar year regardless of the number of drought intensity ratings the county receives; that is, the maximum payment an eligible livestock producer may receive under LFP in a calendar year cannot exceed 60 percent of 5 times the same covered livestock's monthly feed cost.
(h) In the case of an eligible livestock producer that sold or otherwise disposed of covered livestock due to a qualifying drought in 1 or both of the 2 production years immediately preceding the current production year, the payment rate is 80 percent of the monthly payment rate calculated in paragraph (f) of this section.
(i) The monthly feed cost for covered livestock equals the product obtained by multiplying:
(1) 30 days;
(2) A payment quantity equal to the amount of the “feed grain equivalent”, as determined under paragraph (j) of this section; and
(3) A payment rate equal to the corn price per pound, as determined in paragraph (k) of this section.
(j) The feed grain equivalent equals, in the case of:
(1) An adult beef cow, 15.7 pounds of corn per day or
(2) In the case of any other type or weight of covered livestock, an amount determined by the Secretary that represents the average number of pounds of corn per day necessary to feed that specific type of livestock.
(k) The corn price per pound equals the quotient calculated as follows:
(1) The higher of:
(i) The national average corn price per bushel for the 12-month period immediately preceding March 1 of the calendar year for which LFP payment is calculated, or
(ii) The national average corn price per bushel for the 24-month period immediately preceding March 1 of the calendar year for which LFP payment is calculated,
(2) Divided by 56.
(l) The monthly feed cost using the normal carrying capacity of the eligible grazing land equals the product obtained by multiplying:
(1) 30 days;
(2) A payment quantity equal to the feed grain equivalent of 15.7 pounds of corn per day;
(3) A payment rate equal to the corn price per pound, as determined in paragraph (k) of this section; and
(4) The number of animal units the eligible livestock producer's grazing land or pastureland can sustain during the normal grazing period in the county for the specific type of grazing land or pastureland, in the absence of a drought or fire, determined by dividing the:
(i) Number of eligible grazing land or pastureland acres of the specific type of grazing land or pastureland, by
(ii) The normal carrying capacity of the specific type of eligible grazing land or pastureland as determined under this subpart.
(m) An eligible livestock producer will be eligible to receive payments for grazing losses due to a fire as specified in § 1416.205(c):
(1) For the period:
(i) Beginning on the date on which the Federal Agency prohibits the eligible livestock producer from using the managed rangeland for grazing, and
(ii) Ending on the earlier of the last day of the Federal lease of the eligible livestock producer or the day that would make the period a 180 day period.
(2) For grazing losses that occur on not more than 180 days per calendar year.
(3) For 50 percent of the monthly feed cost, as determined under paragraph (i) of this section, pro-rated to a daily rate, for the total number of livestock covered by the Federal lease of the eligible livestock producer.
[79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 49468, Oct. 2, 2018; 85 FR 10966, Feb. 26, 2020]

# Subpart D—Livestock Indemnity Program
§ 1416.301
Applicability.
(a) This subpart establishes the terms and conditions of the Livestock Indemnity Program (LIP).
(b) Eligible livestock owners and contract growers will be compensated in accordance with § 1416.306 for eligible livestock deaths in excess of normal mortality, or livestock owners will be compensated for sales of injured livestock for a reduced price, if either the death or injury that results in sale at a reduced price occurred as a direct result of an eligible cause of loss. The eligible cause of loss is one, as determined by FSA, that directly results in the death of livestock or injury and sale of livestock at a reduced price, despite the livestock owner's or contract grower's performance of expected and normal preventative or corrective measures and acceptable animal husbandry practices.
[83 FR 49468, Oct. 2, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 10966, Feb. 26, 2020]
§ 1416.302
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this subpart. The definitions in parts 718 of this title and 1400 of this chapter also apply, except where they conflict with the definitions in this section.
Acceptable animal husbandry
means animals raised and cared for to produce offspring, meat, fiber, milk, eggs, or other products. Includes day-to-day care and selective breeding and raising of livestock. The practices are those that are generally recognized by the commercial livestock industry.
Actual livestock beginning inventory
means the actual livestock beginning inventory per calendar year for unweaned livestock that is calculated from the verifiable or reliable records of death, birthing, docking, inventory, and sales.
Adjusted livestock beginning inventory
means the LBIH for unweaned livestock that will be adjusted during the base period for years for which continuous actual LBIH records are not provided.
Adult beef bull
means a male beef breed bovine animal that was at least 2 years old and used for breeding purposes.
Adult beef cow
means a female beef breed bovine animal that had delivered one or more offspring. A first-time bred beef heifer is also considered an adult beef cow if it was pregnant at the time it died or was sold at a reduced price.
Adult beefalo bull
means a male hybrid of beef and bison that was at least 2 years old and used for breeding purposes.
Adult beefalo cow
means a female hybrid of beef and bison that had delivered one or more offspring before dying or being injured and sold at a reduced price. A first-time bred beefalo heifer is also considered an adult beefalo cow if it is pregnant at the time it died or was sold at a reduced price.
Adult buffalo or bison bull
means a male animal of those breeds that was at least 2 years old and used for breeding purposes.
Adult buffalo or bison cow
means a female animal of those breeds that had delivered one or more offspring before it died or was injured and sold at a reduced price. A first-time bred buffalo or bison heifer is also considered an adult buffalo or bison cow if it was pregnant at the time it died or was sold at a reduced price.
Adult dairy bull
means a male dairy breed bovine animal at least 2 years old used primarily for breeding dairy cows.
Adult dairy cow
means a female bovine dairy breed animal used for the purpose of providing milk for human consumption that had delivered one or more offspring. A first-time bred dairy heifer is also considered an adult dairy cow if it was pregnant at the time it died or was injured and sold at a reduced price.
Agricultural operation
means a farming operation.
Application
means the “Livestock Indemnity Program” form.
Approved livestock beginning inventory
means the approved livestock beginning inventory for unweaned livestock, calculated by the sum of the yearly actual and transitional LBIH divided by the number of years of LBIH.
Base period
means the five consecutive calendar years immediately preceding the calendar year of the LIP application for which the approved livestock beginning inventory is being established for the unweaned livestock.
Blizzard
means, as defined by the National Weather Service, a storm which contains large amounts of snow or blowing snow with winds in excess of 35 miles per hour and visibility of less than one-fourth of a mile for an extended period of time.
Buck
means a male goat.
Commercial use
means used in the operation of a business activity engaged in as a means of livelihood for profit.
Continuous livestock beginning inventory reports
means livestock beginning inventory reports submitted by a producer for each calendar year that the producer was involved in the unweaned livestock
Contract
means, with respect to contracts for the handling of livestock, a written agreement between a livestock owner and another individual or entity setting the specific terms, conditions, and obligations of the parties involved regarding the production of livestock or livestock products.
Cow, Ewe, Nanny LBIH
means, the applicable calendar year cow, ewe, or nanny verifiable livestock beginning inventory records provided to FSA by the unweaned livestock operation to be used in calculating the transitional LBIH.
Eligible adverse weather event
means extreme and abnormal damaging weather in the calendar year for which benefits are being requested that is not expected to occur during the loss period for which it occurred, which directly results in eligible livestock death losses in excess of normal mortality or injury and sale of livestock at a reduced price. Eligible adverse weather events include, but are not limited to, as determined by the Deputy Administrator or designee, earthquake; hail; lightning; tornado; tropical storm; typhoon; vog if directly related to a volcanic eruption; winter storm if the winter storm meets the
definition provided in this section; hurricanes; floods; blizzards; wildfires; extreme heat; extreme cold; and straight-line wind. Drought is not an eligible adverse weather event except when associated with anthrax, a condition that occurs because of drought and results in the death of eligible livestock.
Eligible attack
means an attack by animals reintroduced into the wild by the Federal government or protected by Federal law, including wolves and avian predators, that directly results in the death of eligible livestock in excess of normal mortality or injury and sale of eligible livestock at reduced price. Eligible livestock owners or contract growers are responsible for showing to FSA's satisfaction that eligible attacks are substantiated according to § 1416.305 in order to be considered eligible for payment.
Eligible disease
means a disease that, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, is exacerbated by an eligible adverse weather event that directly results in the death of eligible livestock in excess of normal mortality, including, but not limited to anthrax, cyanobacteria, and larkspur poisoning, or a disease that is caused or transmitted by a vector and cannot be controlled by vaccination or acceptable management practices. Eligible diseases are not an eligible cause of loss for benefits based on injury and sales of eligible livestock at reduced price.
Eligible loss condition
means any of the following that occur in the calendar year for which benefits are requested: Eligible adverse weather event, eligible attack, and eligible disease. Eligible disease is not an eligible loss condition for injured livestock.
Equine animal
means a domesticated horse, mule, or donkey.
Ewe
means a female sheep.
Farming operation
means a business enterprise engaged in producing agricultural products.
FSA
means the Farm Service Agency.
Goat
means a domesticated, ruminant mammal of the genus Capra, including Angora goats. Goats are further defined by sex (bucks and nannies) and age (kids).
Kid
means a goat less than 1 year old.
Lamb
means a sheep less than 1 year old.
Livestock beginning inventory history
(LBIH) means a minimum of four, up to a maximum of five, calendar years of actual and transitional beginning inventory records used to calculate the approved livestock beginning inventory history for a livestock operation.
LBIH reporting date
means the LBIH reporting date for which the reports will be accepted for inclusion in the base period for the current calendar year.
Livestock inventory report
means a written record showing the producer's annual inventory used to determine the LBIH for LIP purposes for the livestock operation. The report contains LBIH by livestock operation by livestock type or kind.
Livestock owner
means one having legal ownership of the livestock for which benefits are being requested on the day such livestock died or were sold at a reduced sale price.
Livestock unit
means all eligible livestock in the physical location county where the livestock losses occurred for the program year:
(1) In which a person or legal entity has 100 percent share interest; or
(2) Which is owned individually by more than one person or legal entity on a shared basis.
Nanny
means a female goat.
Newborn livestock
means livestock that are within 10 calendar days of date of birth.
Non-adult beef cattle
means a beef breed bovine animal that does not meet the definition of adult beef cow or bull. Non-adult beef cattle are further delineated by weight categories of either less than 400 pounds or 400 pounds or more at the time they died or were sold at a reduced price.
Non-adult beefalo
means a hybrid of beef and bison that does not meet the definition of adult beefalo cow or bull. Non-adult beefalo are further delineated by weight categories of either less than 400 pounds or 400 pounds or more at the time they died or were sold at a reduced price.
Non-adult buffalo or bison
means an animal of those breeds that does not meet the definition of adult buffalo or bison cow or bull. Non-adult buffalo or bison are further delineated by weight categories of either less than 400
pounds or 400 pounds or more at the time they died or were sold at a reduced price.
Non-adult dairy cattle
means a dairy breed bovine animal, of a breed used for the purpose of providing milk for human consumption, that do not meet the definition of adult dairy cow or bull. Non-adult dairy cattle are further delineated by weight categories of either less than 400 pounds or 400 pounds or more at the time they died or were sold at a reduced price.
Normal mortality
means the numerical amount, computed by a percentage, as established for the area by the FSA State Committee, of expected livestock deaths, by category, that normally occur during a calendar year for a producer.
Poultry
means domesticated chickens, turkeys, ducks, and geese. Poultry are further delineated by sex, age, and purpose of production as determined by FSA.
Ram
means a male sheep.
Sheep
means a domesticated, ruminant mammal of the genus Ovis. Sheep are further defined by sex (rams and ewes) and age (lambs) for purposes of dividing into categories for loss calculations.
State office or county office
means the respective FSA office.
Swine
means a domesticated omnivorous pig, hog, or boar. Swine for purposes of dividing into categories for loss calculations are further delineated by sex and weight as determined by FSA.
Transitional LBIH for unweaned livestock
means an estimated LBIH, generally determined by multiplying the livestock operation's beginning cow, ewe, or nanny LBIH by the national established birthing rate percentage established by FSA for the species of unweaned livestock. The Deputy Administrator has the authority to make adjustments for variations in stocking levels for livestock during the period covered by the history as necessary. It is to be used in the transitional LBIH calculation process when less than 4 consecutive calendar years of actual LBIH is available.
Unweaned livestock
means an animal not weaned from mother's milk or milk replacement to other nourishment. For LIP purposes, unweaned livestock does not include turkeys, ducks, chickens, and geese.
Winter storm
means, for an eligible adverse weather event, an event that so severe as to directly cause injury to livestock and lasts in duration for at least 3 consecutive days and includes a combination of high winds, freezing rain or sleet, heavy snowfall, and extremely cold temperatures. For a determination of winter storm, the wind, precipitation, and extremely cold temperatures must occur with the 3-day period, with wind and extremely cold temperatures occurring in each of the 3 days.
[79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 49468, Oct. 2, 2018; 85 FR 10966, Feb. 26, 2020]

# Editorial Note:
At 85 FR 10966, Feb. 26, 2020, § 1416.302 was amended in the definition “eligible adverse weather” however, the amendment to remove the last three sentences could not be incorporated due to inaccurate amendatory instruction.
§ 1416.303
Eligible owners and contract growers.
(a) In addition, to other eligibility rules that may apply, to be eligible as a:
(1) Livestock owner for benefits with respect to the death of an animal or sale of an injured animal at a reduced price under this subpart, the applicant must have had legal ownership of the eligible livestock on the day the livestock died or was injured and sold at a reduced price and under conditions in which no contract grower could have been eligible for benefits with respect to the animal. Eligible types of animal categories for which losses can be calculated for an owner are specified in § 1416.304(a).
(2) Contract grower for benefits with respect to the death of an animal, the animal must be in one of the categories specified on § 1416.304(b), and the contract grower must have had,
(i) A written agreement with the owner of eligible livestock setting the specific terms, conditions, and obligations of the parties involved regarding the production of livestock;
(ii) Control of the eligible livestock on the day the livestock died; and
(iii) A risk of loss in the animal.
(b) A livestock owner or contract grower seeking payment must be an eligible producer as defined in subpart A of this part and other applicable USDA regulations.
(c) All of an eligible livestock owner's or contract grower's interest in livestock in a physical location county must be taken into account and summarized by livestock unit when determining the extent of payment eligibility.
(d) Livestock owners are eligible for benefits for injured animals sold at reduced price only when those animals are not in a contract grower's inventory for which a contract grower seeks benefits for death losses. Contract growers are not eligible for benefits for injured animals sold at a reduced price.
[79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 49469, Oct. 2, 2018]
§ 1416.304
Eligible livestock.
(a) To be considered eligible livestock for livestock owners, the kind of livestock must be alpacas, adult or non-adult dairy cattle, beef cattle, beefalo, bison, buffalo, elk, emus, equine, llamas, sheep, goats, swine, poultry, deer, ostriches, or reindeer and meet all the conditions in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) To be considered eligible livestock for contract growers, the kind of livestock must be poultry or swine and meet all the conditions in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) To be considered eligible livestock for the purpose of generating payments under this subpart, livestock must have:
(1) Died as a direct result of an eligible loss condition:
(i) With the eligible loss condition occurring in the program year for which benefits are sought;
(ii) No later than 30 calendar days for livestock, or 7 calendar days for newborn livestock, from the ending date of the eligible loss condition; or
(2) Been injured and sold at a reduced price as a direct result of an eligible adverse weather event or eligible attack no later than 30 calendar days for livestock, or 7 calendar days for newborn livestock, from the ending date of the eligible adverse weather event or eligible attack.
(3) Been produced or maintained for commercial use for livestock sale or the production of livestock products such as milk or eggs as part of a farming operation on the day they died or until the event that resulted in their sale at a reduced price; and
(4) Not be produced or maintained for reasons other than commercial use for livestock sale or for the production of livestock products such as milk or eggs. Livestock excluded from being eligible include, but are not limited to:
(i) Wild free roaming animals;
(ii) Horses and other animals used or intended to be used for racing or wagering;
(iii) Animals produced or maintained for hunting; and
(iv) Animals produced or maintained for consumption by owner.
(d) The following categories of animals owned by a livestock owner are eligible livestock and calculations of eligibility for payments will be calculated separately for each producer with respect to each category:
(1) Adult beef bulls;
(2) Adult beef cows;
(3) Adult beefalo bulls;
(4) Adult beefalo cows;
(5) Adult buffalo or bison bulls;
(6) Adult buffalo or bison cows;
(7) Adult dairy bulls;
(8) Adult dairy cows;
(9) Alpacas;
(10) Chickens, broilers, pullets (regular size);
(11) Chickens, chicks;
(12) Chickens, layers;
(13) Chickens, pullets or Cornish hens (small size);
(14) Chickens, roasters;
(15) Chickens, super roasters or parts
(16) Deer;
(17) Ducks;
(18) Ducks, ducklings;
(19) Elk;
(20) Emus;
(21) Equine;
(22) Geese, goose;
(23) Geese, gosling;
(24) Goats, bucks;
(25) Goats, nannies;
(26) Goats, kids;
(27) Llamas;
(28) Non-adult beef cattle;
(29) Non-adult beefalo;
(30) Non-adult buffalo or bison;
(31) Non-adult dairy cattle;
(32) Reindeer;
(33) Sheep, ewes;
(34) Sheep, lambs;
(35) Sheep, rams;
(36) Swine, suckling pigs, nursery pigs under 50 pounds;
(37) Swine, lightweight barrows, gilts 50 to 150 pounds;
(38) Swine, sows, boars, barrows, gilts 151 to 450 pounds;
(39) Swine, boars, sows, 450 pounds or more;
(40) Turkeys, poults;
(41) Turkeys, toms, fryers, and roasters; and
(42) Ostriches.
(e) The following categories of animals are eligible livestock for contract growers and calculations of eligibility for payments will be calculated separately for each producer with respect to each category:
(1) Chickens, broilers, pullets (regular size);
(2) Chickens, chicks;
(3) Chickens, layers;
(4) Chickens, pullets or Cornish hens (small size);
(5) Chickens, roasters;
(6) Chickens, super roasters or parts;
(7) Ducks;
(8) Ducks, ducklings;
(9) Geese, goose;
(10) Swine, boars, sows;
(11) Swine, suckling nursery pigs;
(12) Swine, lightweight barrows, gilts 50 to 150 pounds;
(13) Swine, sows, boars, barrows, gilts 151 to 450 pounds;
(14) Swine, boars and sows 450 pounds or more;
(15) Turkeys, poults; and
(16) Turkeys, toms, fryers, and roasters.
(f) Ineligible livestock for the purpose of generating payments under this subpart include those livestock that died due to disease that is not an eligible disease; eligible livestock suffering injury due to disease or eligible disease which are sold for reduced price; and any eligible livestock that died or were injured by anything other than an eligible loss condition.
[83 FR 49469, Oct. 2, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 10966, Feb. 26, 2020; 88 FR 1891, Jan. 11, 2023]
§ 1416.305
Application process.
(a) A notice of loss must be accompanied by documentation acceptable to FSA substantiating that the claimed eligible loss condition occurred and was responsible for eligible losses. For any notice of loss being submitted for disease exacerbated by eligible adverse weather, the notice of loss must be accompanied by a certification referenced in paragraph (g) of this section.
(b) A livestock owner or contract grower that suffered livestock losses must:
(1) Provide a notice of loss, by livestock unit, to FSA by the later of 30 calendar days of when the loss of livestock is first apparent to the livestock owner or contract grower or December 3, 2018.
(2) Submit the notice of loss required in this section to the FSA county office responsible for servicing the physical location county where the loss occurred.
(c) In addition to the notice of loss required in paragraph (b) of this section, a participant must also submit a completed application for payment, by livestock unit for losses apparent in 2019 and subsequent years, by no later than 60 calendar days after the end of the calendar year in which the eligible loss condition occurred.
(d) A participant must provide other supporting documents required for determining eligibility as an applicant at the time the participant submits the completed application for payment. Supporting documents must include:
(1) Evidence of loss,
(2) Current physical location of livestock in inventory,
(3) Physical location of claimed livestock at the time of death or injury,
(4) Documentation acceptable to FSA showing inventory numbers for the livestock unit and other inventory information necessary to establish actual mortality as required by FSA,
(5) A farm operating plan, if a current farm operating plan is not already on file in the FSA county office,
(6) Documentation of the adverse weather event from an official weather reporting data source that is determined by FSA to be reputable and available in the public domain such as,
but not limited to, NOAA, from which State and County FSA Offices can validate the adverse weather event occurred,
(7) Documentation to substantiate eligible attacks obtained from a source such as, but not limited to, the following:
(i) APHIS,
(ii) State level Department of Natural Resources, or
(iii) Other sources or documentation, such as third parties, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, and
(8) If livestock are injured and sold at a reduced price.
(i) Documentation of injured livestock's gross price, and
(ii) Documentation to substantiate injury of livestock due to an eligible adverse weather event or eligible attack.
(9) The livestock producer may supplement additional documentation to support the eligible loss condition, as determined by the Deputy Administrator.
(10) In addition, contract growers must provide a copy of the grower contract.
(e) For death losses or losses resulting from injured livestock sold at a reduced price, the participant must provide adequate proof that the death or injury of the eligible livestock occurred as a direct result of an eligible loss condition, as opposed to any other possible or potential cause of loss. The quantity and kind of livestock that died as a direct result of the eligible loss condition may be documented by: Purchase records; veterinarian records; bank or other loan papers; rendering-plant truck receipts; Federal Emergency Management Agency records; National Guard records; written contracts; production records; Internal Revenue Service records; property tax records; private insurance documents; and other similar verifiable documents as determined by FSA. The quantity and kind of livestock that died or has been injured and sold at a reduced price as a direct result of an eligible attack must be substantiated by documentation of confirmed kills observed by an acceptable source as specified in paragraphs (d)(7) and (g) of this section.
(f) For losses resulting from an eligible adverse weather event or eligible disease, if adequate verifiable proof of death or injury documentation is not available, the participant may provide reliable records as proof of death or injury. Reliable records may include contemporaneous producer records, dairy herd improvement records, brand inspection records, vaccination records, dated pictures, and other similar reliable documents as determined by FSA.
(g) For livestock death losses due to disease, a licensed veterinarian's certification of livestock deaths may be accepted as proof of death, if the livestock are not owned by the licensed veterinarian and reliable beginning inventory data is available, only if the veterinarian provides a written statement containing all of the following:
(1) Veterinarian's personal observation of the animals and knowledge of how the deaths of the livestock were because of disease caused or exacerbated by an eligible adverse weather event;
(2) Livestock deaths were not otherwise avoidable and preventable using good animal husbandry and management protocols and practices by the livestock producer; and
(3) Other information required by FSA to determine the certification acceptable.
(4) Information furnished by the participant and the veterinarian will be used to determine eligibility for program benefits. Furnishing the information is voluntary; however, without all required information program benefits will not be approved or provided
(h) Certification of livestock deaths or injuries by third parties may be accepted if both of the following conditions are met:
(1) The livestock owner or livestock contract grower, as applicable, certifies in writing:
(i) That there is no other documentation of death available;
(ii) The number of livestock, by category identified in this subpart and by FSA were in inventory at the time the eligible adverse weather event occurred;
(iii) The physical location of the livestock, by category, in inventory when the deaths occurred; and
(iv) Other details required for FSA to determine the certification acceptable; and
(2) The third party is an independent source who is not affiliated with the farming operation such as a hired hand and is not a “family member,” defined as a person whom a member in the farming operation or their spouse is related as lineal ancestor, lineal descendant, sibling, spouse, and provides their telephone number, address, and a written statement containing specific details about:
(i) Their knowledge of the livestock deaths;
(ii) Their affiliation with the livestock owner;
(iii) The accuracy of the deaths claimed by the livestock owner or contract grower including, but not limited to, the number and kind or type of the participant's livestock that died because of the eligible adverse weather event; and
(iv) Other information required by FSA to determine the certification acceptable.
(v) Data furnished by the participant and the third party will be used to determine eligibility for program benefits. Furnishing the data is voluntary; however, without all required data program benefits will not be approved or provided.
(i) Unweaned livestock operations may provide proof of death by using the LBIH.
(1) Livestock inventory reports by livestock unit must be provided to the FSA local county office by 60 calendar days after the end of the calendar year of the eligible adverse weather event. The STC may approve a waiver of the reporting deadline if a participant has not previously received benefits under this method.
(i) Livestock inventory reports must provide an accurate account of livestock beginning inventory for the livestock type or kind and must be supported by written records such as but not limited to: Docking records, sales receipts, shearing records, shipping records, bank records, veterinarian records, IRS records, or other records approved by COC. For purposes of determining beginning livestock inventory, livestock inventory reports may require adjustment by COC, not to exceed normal mortality, for when loss occurs at different points during the growing season (for example, inventories from docking may need little to no adjustment, but sales records at the end of the growing season may require an adjustment to account for a full years of normal mortality).
(ii) The unweaned livestock operation must certify to the accuracy of the information.
(2) The unweaned livestock operation is solely responsible for the timely submission and certification of accurate, complete livestock beginning inventory to the county FSA office. Livestock beginning inventory records must be provided for all livestock type or kind.
(i) Records may be requested by the applicable COC or STC, on behalf of FSA. The unweaned livestock operation must provide such records upon request.
(ii) The COC will explain the procedure for the LBIH to unweaned livestock operation. COC will determine the LBIH in accordance with § 1416.305(g).
(iii) COC will determine if the livestock beginning inventory records are acceptable and calculate the approved livestock beginning inventory history.
(3) The LBIH is calculated utilizing a minimum of 4 years of data and will be updated each subsequent inventory year. The transitional LBIH may contain a maximum of the 4 most recent calendar years and may include actual and transitional livestock beginning inventories. Transitional LBIH will only be used when less than 4 years of actual records are available. Appropriate adjustments to LBIH may be made to account for variations in ewe, cow and nanny stocking levels during the period covered by the history.
(4) The unweaned livestock operation is required to provide beginning livestock inventory records to determine the LBIH, if livestock beginning inventory records are available.
(i) If no acceptable livestock beginning inventory records are available for calves, lambs, or kids, calculate the 4 transitional livestock beginning inventory histories by multiplying the
approved birthing rate or drop rate percentage for the unweaned livestock operation times the applicable cow, ewe, or nanny LBIH times 65 percent.
(ii) If acceptable livestock beginning inventory records are provided for only one of the most recent 5 calendar years, calculate the 3 transitional livestock beginning inventory histories by multiplying the approved birthing rate or drop rate percentage for the unweaned livestock operation times the applicable cow, ewe, or nanny LBIH times 80 percent.
(iii) If acceptable livestock beginning inventory records are provided for only 2 of the most recent 5 calendar years, calculate the 2 transitional livestock beginning inventory histories by multiplying the approved birthing rate or drop rate percentage for the unweaned livestock operation times the applicable cow, ewe, or nanny LBIH times 90 percent.
(iv) If acceptable livestock beginning inventory records are provided for only 3 of the most recent 5 calendar years, calculate the one transitional livestock beginning inventory histories by multiplying the approved birthing rate or drop rate percentage for the unweaned livestock operation times the applicable cow, ewe, or nanny LBIH times 100 percent.
(v) If acceptable livestock beginning inventory history records containing information for 4 or more of the most recent calendar years are provided, calculate the livestock beginning inventory history by taking a simple average of the actual livestock beginning inventory histories.
(j) When an eligible owner claims eligible livestock were injured by an eligible loss condition and were sold for a reduced price, the owner must provide verifiable evidence of the gross sale price of the livestock. The injured livestock must be sold through an independent third party (sale barn, slaughter facility, or rendering facility). Only verifiable proof of sale with price is acceptable. The gross sale price of the livestock is the amount received for the injured livestock before any reductions, such as sale yard fees. The owner must provide verifiable evidence of livestock sold at a reduced price. Documents that may satisfy this requirement include but are not limited to, any or a combination of the following: Sales receipt from a livestock auction, sale barn, or other similar livestock sales facility; bona-fide commercial sales receipts; private insurance documents; and processing plant receipts.
[79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 49470, Oct. 2, 2018; 85 FR 10967, Feb. 26, 2020; 88 FR 1891, Jan. 11, 2023]
§ 1416.306
Payment calculation.
(a) Under this subpart, separate payment rates for eligible livestock owners and eligible livestock contract growers are specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, respectively. Payments for death losses are calculated by multiplying the national payment rate for each livestock category by the number of eligible livestock in excess of normal mortality in each category that died as a result of an eligible loss condition. Normal mortality for each livestock category will be determined by FSA on a State-by-State basis using local data sources including, but not limited to, State livestock organizations and the Cooperative Extension Service for the State. Adjustments will be applied as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(b) The LIP national payment rate for eligible livestock owners is based on 75 percent of the average fair market value of the applicable livestock as computed using nationwide prices for the previous calendar year unless some other price is approved by the Deputy Administrator.
(c) The LIP national payment rate for eligible livestock contract growers is based on 75 percent of the average income loss sustained by the contract grower with respect to the dead livestock. The rate that applies is based on the type, class, and weight of the animal at the time of the eligible loss condition and death.
(d) The LIP payment calculated for eligible livestock contract growers will be reduced by the amount the participant received from the party who contracted with the producer to raise the livestock for the loss of income from the dead livestock.
(e) Payments to livestock owners for losses due to sale of livestock at a reduced price because of injury from an
eligible loss condition are calculated by multiplying the national payment rate for each livestock category by the number of eligible livestock sold at a reduced price as a result of an eligible loss condition, minus the gross amount the eligible livestock owner received for the livestock up to the applicable national payment rate. In the event livestock sells for a reduced price that is in excess of the national payment rate, the national payment rate will be subtracted resulting in no payment for that livestock.
[79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 49471, Oct. 2, 2018]

# Subpart E—Tree Assistance Program
§ 1416.400
Applicability.
(a) This subpart establishes the terms and conditions under which the Tree Assistance Program (TAP) will be administered under Title I of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Pub. L. 113-79, the 2014 Farm Bill), as amended.
(b) Eligible orchardists and nursery tree growers will be compensated as specified in § 1416.406 for eligible tree, bush, and vine losses in excess of 15 percent mortality, or, where applicable, damage in excess of 15 percent, adjusted for normal mortality and normal damage, that occurred in the calendar year (or loss period in the case of plant disease) for which benefits are being requested and as a direct result of a natural disaster.
(c) Eligible pecan tree losses incurred in the 2017 and 2018 calendar years not meeting the mortality loss threshold of paragraph (b) of this section with a tree mortality loss in excess of 7.5 percent (adjusted for normal mortality) will be compensated for eligible losses as specified in § 1416.406. For 2017 calendar year losses, up to a maximum of $15,000,000 is available.
[79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 49471, Oct. 2, 2018; 84 FR 48537, Sept. 13, 2019; 85 FR 10968, Feb. 26, 2020]
§ 1416.401
Administration.
The program will be administered as specified in § 1416.2 and in this subpart.
§ 1416.402
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this subpart. The definitions in parts 718 of this title and 1400 of this chapter also apply, except where they conflict with the definitions in this section.
Bush
means, a low, branching, woody plant, from which at maturity of the bush, an annual fruit or vegetable crop is produced for commercial purposes, such as a blueberry bush. The definition does not cover plants that produce a bush after the normal crop is harvested such as asparagus.
Commercial use
means used in the operation of a business activity engaged in as a means of livelihood for profit by the eligible producer.
Commercially viable
means an eligible tree, bush, or vine, though damaged, that can rejuvenate and return to an acceptable level of commercial production at some time with rehabilitation and without replanting. A commercially viable tree, bush, or vine, regardless of the extent of damage or years of reduced production, is always excluded and never included as part of mortality under § 1416.403.
County office
means the FSA or U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Service Center that is responsible for servicing the farm on which the trees, bushes, or vines are located.
Cutting
means a piece of a vine which was planted in the ground to propagate a new vine for the commercial production of fruit, such as grapes, kiwi fruit, passion fruit, or similar fruit.
Eligible nursery tree grower
means a person or legal entity that produces nursery, ornamental, fruit, nut, or Christmas trees for commercial sale.
Eligible orchardist
means a person or legal entity that produces annual crops from trees, bushes, or vines for commercial purposes.
FSA
means the Farm Service Agency.
Lost
means, with respect to the extent of damage to a tree or other plant, that the plant is destroyed or the damage is such that it would, as determined by FSA, be more cost effective to replace the tree or other plant than to leave it in its deteriorated, low-producing state.
Natural disaster
means plant disease, insect infestation, drought, fire, freeze, flood, earthquake, lightning, or other
natural occurrence. Each of these types of disasters must be extreme, abnormal, and damaging as well as of significant magnitude or severity, as determined by the Deputy Administrator.
Normal damage
means the percentage, as established for the area by the FSA State Committee, of trees, bushes, or vines in the stand that would normally be damaged during a calendar year for a producer.
Normal mortality
means percentage, as established for the area by the FSA State Committee, of expected lost trees, bushes, or vines in the stand that normally occurs during a calendar year for a producer. This term refers to the number of whole trees, bushes, or vines that are destroyed or damaged beyond rehabilitation. Mortality does not include partial damage such as lost tree limbs.
Seedling
means an immature tree, bush, or vine that was planted in the ground or other growing medium to grow a new tree, bush, or vine for commercial purposes.
Stand
means a contiguous acreage of the same type of trees (including Christmas trees, ornamental trees, nursery trees, and potted trees), bushes (including shrubs), or vines.
Tree
means a tall, woody plant having comparatively great height, and a single trunk from which an annual crop is produced for commercial purposes, such as a maple tree for syrup, papaya tree, or orchard tree. Trees used for pulp or timber are not considered eligible trees under this subpart.
Vine
means a perennial plant grown under normal conditions from which an annual fruit crop is produced for commercial market for human consumption, such as grape, kiwi, or passion fruit, and that has a flexible stem supported by climbing, twining, or creeping along a surface. Perennials that are normally propagated as annuals such as tomato plants, biennials such as the plants that produce strawberries, and annuals such as pumpkins, squash, cucumbers, watermelon, and other melons, are excluded from the term vine in this subpart.
[79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 49471, Oct. 2, 2018; 85 FR 10968, Feb. 26, 2020]
§ 1416.403
Eligible losses.
(a) To qualify for any assistance under this subpart, except for assistance under § 1416.400(c), the eligible orchardist or nursery tree grower must first have suffered more than a 15 percent tree, bush, or vine mortality loss on a stand (adjusted for normal mortality) as a result of natural disaster as determined by the Deputy Administrator. For assistance for losses to pecan trees under § 1416.400(c), the eligible orchardist or nursery tree grower must first have suffered a mortality loss of more than 7.5 percent (adjusted for normal mortality) on a stand as a result of natural disaster as determined by the Deputy Administrator.
(b) The qualifying loss of a stand of trees, bushes, or vines specified in paragraph (a) of this section will be determined based on:
(1) Each eligible disaster event, except for losses due to plant disease;
(2) For plant disease, the time period, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, for which the stand is infected.
(c) Mortality or damage loss not eligible for inclusion as a qualifying loss under this section or for payment under § 1416.406 includes those losses where:
(1) The loss or damage could have been prevented through reasonable and available measures; and
(2) The trees, bushes, or vines, in the absence of a natural disaster, would normally have required rehabilitation or replanting within the 12-month period following the loss.
(d) The damage or loss must be visible and obvious to the county committee representative. If the damage is no longer visible, the county committee may accept other evidence of the loss as it determines is reasonable.
(e) The county committee may require information from a qualified expert, as determined by the county committee, to determine extent of loss in the case of plant disease or insect infestation.
(f) The Deputy Administrator will determine the types of trees, bushes, and vines that are eligible.
(g) A stand that did not suffer a qualifying mortality loss as specified in paragraph (a) of this section is not eligible for payment.The qualifying
mortality loss will be determined based on the eligible trees, bushes, or vines that reached mortality, which means that the tree, bush, or vine died, above and below ground, as a result of an eligible natural disaster event. If an eligible tree, bush, or vine is damaged to such an extent that it is not commercially viable, now or at any time in the future, the tree, bush, or vine can be considered dead in determining if the requisite qualifying mortality loss threshold in paragraph (a) of this section is reached.
[83 FR 49471, Oct. 2, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 10968, Feb. 26, 2020]
§ 1416.404
Eligible orchardists and nursery tree growers.
(a) Once the requisite qualifying eligible mortality loss is determined according to § 1416.403, to be eligible for TAP payments, the eligible orchardist or nursery tree grower must:
(1) Have planted, or be considered to have planted (by purchase prior to the loss of existing stock planted for commercial purposes) trees, bushes, or vines for commercial purposes, or have a production history, for commercial purposes, of planted or existing trees, bushes, or vines;
(2) Have suffered eligible losses of eligible trees, bushes, or vines, as a result of a natural disaster or related condition;
(3) Have continuously owned the stand from the time of the disaster until the time that the TAP application is submitted.
(b) A new owner of an orchard or nursery who does not meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section may receive TAP payments approved for the previous owner of the orchard or nursery and not paid to the previous owner, if the previous owner of the orchard or nursery agrees to the succession in writing and if the new owner:
(1) Acquires ownership of trees, bushes, or vines for which benefits have been approved;
(2) Agrees to complete all approved practices that the original owner has not completed; and
(3) Otherwise meets and assumes full responsibility for all provisions of this part, including refund of payments made to the previous owner, if applicable.
(c) A producer seeking payment must not be ineligible under the restrictions applicable to citizenship and foreign corporations contained in § 1416.3(b) and must meet all other requirements of subpart A of this part.
(d) Federal, State, and local governments and agencies and political subdivisions thereof are not eligible for payment under this subpart.
[79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 49472, Oct. 2, 2018; 85 FR 10968, Feb. 26, 2020]
§ 1416.405
Application.
(a) To apply for TAP, a producer that suffered eligible tree, bush, or vine losses must provide an application for payment and supporting documentation to FSA or within 90 calendar days of the disaster event or date when the loss of trees, bushes, or vines is apparent to the producer.
(b) The producer must submit the application for payment within the time specified in paragraph (a) of this section to the FSA administrative county office that maintains the producer's farm records for the agricultural operation.
(c) A complete application includes all of the following:
(1) A completed application form provided by FSA;
(2) An acreage report for the farming operation as specified in part 718, subpart B, of this title;
(3) Subject to verification and a loss amount determined appropriate by the county committee, a written estimate of the number of trees, bushes, or vines lost or damaged that is certified by the producer or a qualified expert, including the number of acres on which the loss occurred;
(4) Sufficient evidence of the loss to allow the county committee to calculate whether an eligible loss occurred; and
(5) A farm operating plan, if a current farm operating plan is not already on file in the FSA county office.
(d) Before requests for payment will be approved, the county committee:
(1) Must make an eligibility determination based on a complete application for assistance;
(2) Must verify actual qualifying losses and the number of acres involved by on-site visual inspection of the land and the trees, bushes, or vines;
(3) May request additional information and may consider all relevant information in making its determination; and
(4) Must verify actual costs to complete the practices, as documented by the producer.
[79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 49472, Oct. 2, 2018; 85 FR 10968, Feb. 26, 2020]
§ 1416.406
Payment calculations.
(a) Once the loss threshold in § 1416.403(a) is satisfied, payment to an eligible orchardist or nursery tree grower for the cost of replanting or rehabilitating trees, bushes, or vines damaged or lost due to a natural disaster, in excess of 15 percent damage or mortality (adjusted for normal damage or mortality), will be calculated as follows:
(1) For the cost of planting seedlings or cuttings, to replace lost trees, bushes, or vines, the lesser of:
(i) 65 percent of the actual cost of the practice for eligible producers, or 75 percent of the actual cost of the practice for an eligible producer who is a beginning or veteran farmer or rancher, or
(ii) The amount calculated using rates established by the Deputy Administrator for the practice.
(2) For the cost of pruning, removal, and other costs incurred for salvaging damaged trees, bushes, or vines, or in the case of mortality, to prepare the land to replant trees, bushes, or vines, the lesser of:
(i) 50 percent of the actual cost of the practice for eligible producers, or 75 percent of the actual cost of the practice for an eligible producer who is a beginning or veteran farmer or rancher, or
(ii) The amount calculated using rates established by the Deputy Administrator for the practice.
(b) An orchardist or nursery tree grower that did not plant the trees, bushes, or vines, but has a production history for commercial purposes on planted or existing trees and lost the trees, bushes, or vines as a result of a natural disaster, in excess of 15 percent mortality (adjusted for normal mortality), will be eligible for the salvage, pruning, and land preparation payment calculation as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. To be eligible for the replanting payment calculation as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the orchardist or nursery grower who did not plant the stock must be a new owner who meets all of the requirements of § 1416.404(b) or be considered the owner of the trees under provisions appearing elsewhere in this subpart.
(c) Eligible costs for payment calculation include costs for:
(1) Seedlings or cuttings, for tree, bush, or vine replanting;
(2) Site preparation and debris handling within normal horticultural practices for the type of stand being re-established, and necessary to ensure successful plant survival;
(3) Pruning, removal, and other costs incurred to salvage damaged trees, bushes, or vines, or, in the case of tree mortality, to prepare the land to replant trees, bushes, or vines;
(4) Chemicals and nutrients necessary for successful establishment;
(5) Labor to plant seedlings or cuttings as determined reasonable by the county committee; and
(6) Labor used to transplant existing seedlings established through natural regeneration into a productive tree stand.
(d) The following costs are not eligible:
(1) Costs for fencing, irrigation, irrigation equipment, protection of seedlings from wildlife, general improvements, re-establishing structures, and windscreens.
(2) Any other costs not listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section, unless specifically determined eligible by the Deputy Administrator.
(3) Costs or expenses that the eligible orchardist or nursery tree grower did not actually bear or incur because someone or some other entity bore or incurred those costs or expenses, or the costs were reimbursed under another program. For example, if under any other program the expenses are paid for on behalf of the eligible orchardist or nursery tree grower, those expenses
are not eligible for cost share under this subpart.
(e) Producers must provide the county committee documentation of actual costs to complete the practices, such as receipts for labor costs, equipment rental, and purchases of seedlings or cuttings.
(f) When lost stands are replanted, the types planted may be different from those originally planted. The alternative types will be eligible for payment if the new types have the same general end use, as determined and approved by the county committee. Payments for alternative types will be based on the lesser of rates established to plant the types actually lost or the cost to establish the alternative used. If the type of plantings, seedlings, or cuttings differs significantly from the types lost, the costs may not be approved for payment.
(g) When lost stands are replanted, the types planted may be planted on the same farm in a different location than the lost stand. To be eligible for payment, site preparation costs for the new location must not exceed the cost to re-establish the original stand in the original location.
(h) Eligible orchardists or nursery tree growers may elect not to replant the entire stand. If so, the county committee will calculate payment based on the number of qualifying trees, bushes, or vines actually replanted.
(i) If a practice, such as site preparation, is needed to both replant and rehabilitate trees, bushes, or vines, the producer must document the expenses attributable to replanting versus rehabilitation. The county committee will determine whether the documentation of expenses detailing the amounts attributable to replanting versus rehabilitation is acceptable. In the event that the county committee determines the documentation does not include acceptable detail of cost allocation, the county committee will pro-rate payment based on physical inspection of the loss, damage, replanting, and rehabilitation.
(j) The cumulative total quantity of acres planted to trees, bushes, or vines for which a producer may receive payment under this part for losses that cannot exceed 1,000 acres per program year.
[79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 49472, Oct. 2, 2018; 85 FR 10968, Feb. 26, 2020]
§ 1416.407
Obligations of a participant.
(a) Eligible orchardists and nursery tree growers must execute all required documents and complete the TAP-funded practice within 12 months of application approval.
(b) Eligible orchardist or nursery tree growers must allow representatives of FSA to visit the site for the purposes of certifying compliance with TAP requirements.
(c) Producers who do not meet all applicable requirements and obligations will not be eligible for payment.
Pt. 1421

# PART 1421—GRAINS AND SIMILARLY HANDLED COMMODITIES—MARKETING ASSISTANCE LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1421.1
Applicability and interest.
1421.2
Administration.
1421.3
Definitions.
1421.4
Eligible producers.
1421.5
Eligible commodities.
1421.6
Beneficial interest.
1421.7
Requesting MALs and LDPs.
1421.8
Eligible quantity.
1421.9
Basic loan rates.
1421.10
Loan repayment rates.
1421.11
Spot checks.
1421.12
Production evidence.
1421.13
Special loan deficiency payments.
1421.14
Obtaining peanut MALs.

# Subpart B—Marketing Assistance Loans
1421.100
Applicability.
1421.101
Maturity dates.
1421.102
Adjustment of basic loan rates.
1421.103
Authorized storage.
1421.104
Making MALs.
1421.105
Farm-stored MALs.
1421.106
Warehouse-stored MAL collateral.
1421.107
Warehouse receipts.
1421.108
Transfers and reconcentrations.
1421.109
Personal liability of the producer.
1421.110
Commodity certificate exchanges.
1421.111
MAL settlement.
1421.112
Foreclosure.
1421.113
Recourse MALs.

# Subpart C—Loan Deficiency Payments
1421.200
Applicability.
1421.201
Loan deficiency payment rate.
1421.202
Loan deficiency payment quantity.
1421.203
Personal liability of the producer.

# Subpart D—Grazing Payments for Wheat, Barley, Oats, and Triticale
1421.300
Applicability.
1421.301
Administration.
1421.302
Eligible producer and eligible land.
1421.303
Time and method for application.
1421.304
Payment amount.
1421.305
Misrepresentation and scheme or device.
1421.306
Refunds; joint and several liability.

# Subpart E—Designated Marketing Associations for Peanuts
1421.400
Applicability and abbreviations.
1421.401
DMA responsibilities.
1421.402
DMA eligibility to process loans and loan deficiency payments.
1421.403
DMA approval.
1421.404
Financial security.
1421.405
Liability.
1421.406
Reporting requirements.
1421.407
Suspension and termination.
1421.408
Prohibited activity.
1421.409
Monitoring AGI.
1421.410
Recordkeeping requirements.
1421.411
Forms.
1421.412
Powers of attorney.
1421.413
Liens and waivers.
1421.414
Producer request to a DMA for an MAL or LDP.
1421.415
Processing marketing assistance loans.
1421.416
Processing loan deficiency payments.
1421.417
Disbursing MAL and LDP proceeds.
1421.418
Submitting MAL and LDP documentation to FSA.
1421.419
MAL or LDP servicing.
1421.420
Inspections and reviews.
1421.421
Appeals.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7231-7237, 7931-7936, and 9031- 40, 15 U.S.C. 714b and c.

# Subpart A—General

# Source:
67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1421.1
Applicability and interest.
(a) The regulations in this subpart are applicable to crops of barley, small and large chickpeas, corn, grain sorghum, lentils, oats, dry peas, peanuts, rice, wheat, wool, mohair, oilseeds and other crops designated by Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC). These regulations specify the general provisions under which Marketing Assistance Loans (MALs) and Loan Deficiency Payments (LDPs) will be administered by CCC. Additional terms and conditions are in the additional documents required to receive MALs and LDPs. In any case in which money must be refunded to CCC in connection with this part, interest will be due to run from the date of disbursement of the sum to be refunded. This provision will apply, unless waived by the Deputy Administrator, irrespective of any other rule.
(b)(1) The basic loan rates, the schedule of premiums and discounts, and forms applicable to the MAL and LDP Programs for the commodities specified in paragraph (a) of this section are available in Farm Service Agency (FSA) State and county offices. The forms for use in these programs will be prescribed by CCC.
(2) LDPs will be available for unshorn pelts, hay and silage.
(c) MALs and LDPs will not be available for any commodity produced on land owned or otherwise in the possession of the United States if such land is occupied without the consent of the United States.
(d) Producers who produced eligible loan commodities are eligible for MALs or LDPs.
(e) Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) provisions specified in part 1400 of this chapter apply to this part.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 32422, June 6, 2006; 74 FR 15649, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 119, Jan. 2, 2015; 86 FR 70705, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1421.2
Administration.
(a) The MAL and LDP Programs will be administered under the general supervision of the Executive Vice President, CCC and will be carried out in the field by FSA State and county committees, respectively.
(b) State and county committees, and representatives and employees thereof, cannot modify or waive any requirement of this part, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.
(c) The State committee will take any required action not taken by the county committee. The State committee will also:
(1) Correct or require correction of an action taken by a county committee that is not in compliance with this part; or
(2) Require a county committee to not take an action or implement a decision that is not under the regulations of this part.
(d) The Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee, may determine any question arising under these programs, or reverse or modify a determination made by a State or county committee.
(e) The Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, FSA, may authorize State and county committees to waive or modify deadlines and other program requirements in cases where lateness or failure to meet such other requirements does not adversely affect the operation of the MAL and LDP Programs.
(f) A representative of CCC may execute MAL and LDP applications and related documents only under the terms and conditions determined and announced by CCC. Any document not executed under such terms and conditions, including any purported execution before the date authorized by CCC, will be null and void.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 15650, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 120, 130, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.3
Definitions.
The definitions in this section apply for all purposes of program administration. Terms defined in part 718 of this title and parts 1412 and 1425 of this chapter also apply, except where they conflict with the definitions in this section.
Administrative County Office
is the FSA County Office where a producer's FSA records are maintained.
Basic loan rate
means the loan rate established by CCC for a commodity before any adjustment for premiums and discounts.
Calling a loan
is accelerating or moving forward the maturity date of an outstanding MAL. A MAL can be called when, as determined by CCC, the terms and conditions of the MAL note and security agreement are violated, a producer incorrectly certifies a loan quantity or makes any fraudulent representation with respect to obtaining a loan, removing or disposing of a farm-stored commodity pledged as collateral for a loan without authorization, to protect CCC's interest, or in emergency situations.
CCC
means the Commodity Credit Corporation.
Charges
means all fees, costs, and expenses incurred in insuring, carrying, handling, storing, conditioning, and marketing the commodity tendered to CCC for a MAL. Charges also include any other expenses incurred by CCC in protecting CCC's or the producer's interest in such commodity.
Chickpeas
means any chickpea that meets the definition of a chickpea according to the Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration (GIPSA), Federal Grain Inspection Service (FGIS).
(1) Small chickpea falls below a 20/64th sieve.
(2) Large chickpea stays above a 20/64th sieve.
CMA
means a cooperative marketing association that is subject to regulations in Part 1425 of this chapter.
COC
means the FSA county committee.
Commodity certificate exchange
means the exchange, as provided for in § 1421.111, of commodities pledged as collateral for a marketing assistance loan at a rate determined by CCC in the form of a commodity certificate bearing a dollar denomination.
Crop
means with respect to a year, commodities harvested in that year. Therefore, the referenced crop year of a commodity means commodities that when planted were intended for harvest in that calendar year.
Current net worth ratio
means current assets minus current liabilities, divided by current liabilities, based on the financial statement provided in connection with a DMA application or a recertification for DMA status.
Department
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
Deputy Administrator
means the Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, Farm Service Agency (FSA) or a designee of that person.
DMA Service County Office
is an FSA County Office designated by CCC to accept, process, and disburse bundled peanut MALs and LDPs to a DMA. In the absence of a centralized MAL and LDP
processing system for peanuts, a service county FSA office is necessary for entering MALs and LDPs made by DMAs into CCC accounting systems.
Designated Marketing Association
(DMA) means an entity, or a subsidiary thereof, that performs marketing functions for peanut producers and is designated to handle MALs and LDPs for them. A DMA is eligible to perform those functions only if the DMA meets the eligibility criteria set out elsewhere in this part.
Drawdown account
is an account titled to the DMA at a financial institution and funded at the discretion of CCC for the purpose of allowing the DMA to advance funds to producers who have applied for MALs and LDPs before a subsequent MAL or LDP is made to the DMA by an assigned FSA county office.
Electronic warehouse receipt (EWR)
means a receipt electronically filed in a central filing system by an approved provider as provided in an executed, “Farm Service Agency Provider Agreement to Electronically File and Maintain Warehouse Receipts.”
FSA
means the Farm Service Agency of the United States Department of Agriculture.
High moisture state
means corn or grain sorghum having a moisture content in excess of CCC standards used to determine eligibility for MALs made by the Secretary.
Incorrect certification
means the certifying of a quantity of a commodity for the purpose of obtaining a MAL or LDP in excess of the quantity eligible for such MAL or LDP or the making of any fraudulent representation with respect to obtaining MALs or LDPs.
Loan commodities
means wheat, corn, grain sorghum, barley, oats, rice, soybeans, other oilseeds, peanuts, wool, mohair, dry peas, lentils, chickpeas, and other crops designated by CCC.
Loan deficiency payment (LDP)
means a payment made in lieu of a MAL when the CCC-determined value, which is based on the current local price in a county, is below the applicable county loan rate. The payment is the difference between the two rates times the eligible quantity.
Loan settlement
means farm stored commodities delivered to CCC and warehouse stored commodities forfeited to CCC, for the applicable crop years.
Locked in repayment rate
means an announced repayment rate on a disbursed MAL that the producer has locked in for 60 calendar days. All locked in repayment rates expire within 14 calendar days before the loan maturity date. MAL can be repaid either at principal plus interest or the repayment rate in effect on the date the repayment is made. The repayment rate can only be locked in one time for a designated quantity and, if multiple locked in repayment rates are in effect for quantities under MAL that have not had a locked in repayment rate, the oldest rate is always applied first.
MAL
means marketing assistance loan.
Market loan gain
is the loan rate, minus the repayment rate on loans repaid at a rate that is less than the loan rate. A producer's adjusted gross income must be below the limit as specified in part 1400 of this chapter to receive a market loan gain.
Medium grain rice
for the purposes of this part includes both short and medium grain rice as defined by the U.S. Standards for Rice.
Mohair
means the hair sheared from a live Angora goat. Mohair does not include pelts, or hides or mohair shorn from pelts or hides.
Oilseeds
means any crop of sunflower seed, canola, rapeseed, safflower, flaxseed, mustard seed, crambe, sesame seed, and other oilseeds as determined and announced by CCC.
Other crops designated by CCC
means with respect to eligibilities for benefits under this part:
(1) Those crops harvested as other than grain, such as silage, haylage, earlage;
(2) Specific crops designated for grazing; or
(3) As otherwise designated by CCC.
Pulse crops
means any crop of dry peas, lentils, and chickpeas as defined by CCC.
Recording FSA County Office
is the FSA County Office that records eligibility data for producers designated as multi-county producers.
Rice
means, unless otherwise noted, long grain rice and medium grain rice.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the United States Department of Agriculture, or the Secretary's delegate.
Security for DMAs
means a certified or cashier's check payable to CCC, an irrevocable commercial letter of credit in a form acceptable to CCC, a performance or surety bond conditioned on the DMA fully discharging all of its obligations under this part, or other form of financial security as CCC may deem appropriate.
Servicing agent bank
means the bank designated as the financial institution for a CMA or a designated marketing association.
STC
means the FSA State committee.
Unauthorized disposition
means the conversion of any MAL quantity pledged as collateral for a farm-stored MAL without prior written authorization from the county committee.
Unauthorized removal
means the movement of any farm-stored loan quantity from the storage structure in which the commodity was stored or structures that were designated when the MAL was approved to any other storage structure, whether or not such structure is located on the producer's farm, without prior written authorization from the county committee.
Unshorn pelt
means the removed skin and attached wool from a slaughtered lamb that has never been shorn.
Warehouse receipt
means a receipt containing the required information prescribed in this part and is:
(1) A pre-numbered, negotiable warehouse receipt issued under the authority of the U.S. Warehouse Act, a state licensing authority, or by an approved CCC warehouse in such format authorized and approved, in advance, by CCC;
(2) An electronic warehouse receipt (EWR) issued by such warehouse recorded in a central filing system or system maintained in one or more locations which are approved by FSA to operate such system; or
(3) Other such acceptable evidence of title, as determined by CCC.
Wool
means the fiber sheared from a live sheep and includes, unless noted otherwise, graded and nongraded wool.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 37940, June 26, 2003; 70 FR 33799, June 10, 2005; 74 FR 15650, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 120, 129, Jan. 2, 2015; 86 FR 70705, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1421.4
Eligible producers.
(a) To be an eligible producer, the producer must:
(1) Be a person, partnership, association, corporation, estate, trust, or other legal entity that produces an eligible commodity as a landowner, landlord, tenant, or sharecropper, or in the case of rice, furnishes land, labor, water, or equipment for a share of the rice crop. With respect to wool and mohair, the producer must own, other than through a security interest mortgage, or lien, the sheep and goats that produced the wool and mohair respectively for a period of not less than 30 days.
(2) Comply with all provisions of this part and, as applicable:
(i) 7 CFR part 12—Highly Erodible Land and Wetland Conservation;
(ii) 7 CFR part 707—Payments Due Persons Who Have Died, Disappeared, or Have Been Declared Incompetent;
(iii) 7 CFR part 718—Provisions Applicable to Multiple Programs;
(iv) 7 CFR part 996—Minimum Quality and Handling Standards for Domestic and Imported Peanuts Marketed in the United States;
(v) 7 CFR part 1400—Payment Limitation
Payment Eligibility;
(vi) 7 CFR part 1402—Policy for Certain Commodities Available for Sale;
(vii) 7 CFR part 1403—Debt Settlement Policies and Procedures;
(viii) 7 CFR part 1405—Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations;
(ix) 7 CFR part 1412—Agriculture Risk Coverage, Price Loss Coverage, and Cotton Transition Assistance Programs; and
(x) 7 CFR part 1423—Commodity Credit Corporation Approved Warehouses.
(3) Have made an acreage certification with respect to all the cropland on the farm.
(b) A receiver or trustee of an insolvent or bankrupt debtor's estate, an
executor or an administrator of a deceased person's estate, a guardian of an estate of a ward or an incompetent person, and trustees of a trust is considered to represent the insolvent or bankrupt debtor, the deceased person, the ward or incompetent, and the beneficiaries of a trust, respectively. The production of the receiver, executor, administrator, guardian, or trustee is considered to be the production of the person or estate represented by the receiver, executor, administrator, guardian, or trustee. MALs and LDP documents executed by any such person will be accepted by CCC only if they are legally valid and such person has the authority to sign the applicable documents.
(c) A minor who is otherwise an eligible producer is eligible to receive MALs or LDPs only if the minor meets one of the following requirements:
(1) The right of majority has been conferred on the minor by court proceedings or by statute;
(2) A guardian has been appointed to manage the minor's property and the applicable MAL or LDP documents are signed by the guardian;
(3) Any note or loan deficiency payment program application signed by the minor is cosigned by a person determined by the county committee to be financially responsible; or
(4) A bond is furnished under which a surety guarantees to protect CCC from any loss incurred for which the minor would be liable had the minor been an adult.
(d) If more than one producer executes a note and security agreement with CCC, each such producer is jointly and severally liable for any violation of the terms and conditions of the note and security agreement and the regulations in this part. Each such producer also remains liable for repayment of the entire MAL amount until the MAL is fully repaid without regard to such producer's claimed share in the commodity pledged as collateral for the MAL. In addition, such producer may not amend the note and security agreement with respect to the producer's claimed share in such commodities, or MAL proceeds, after execution of the note and security agreement by CCC.
(e)(1) The county committee may deny a producer a MAL on farm-stored commodities if the producer has:
(i) Made a misrepresentation in connection with the MAL or LDP program;
(ii) Not allowed an FSA representative access to the site where commodities pledged as collateral for MALs were stored, or otherwise failed to cooperate in the settlement of MAL; or
(iii) Failed to adequately protect the interests of CCC in the commodity pledged as collateral for a farm-stored MAL.
(2) A producer who is denied a farm-stored MAL will be eligible to pledge a commodity as collateral for a warehouse-stored MAL or provide some other form of financial assurance to obtain a farm-stored MAL.
(f) A CMA may obtain a MAL and LDP on eligible production of a MAL commodity on behalf of its members who are eligible to receive MALs or LDPs with respect to a crop of a commodity. For purposes of this subpart, the term “producer” includes a CMA.
(g) In case of the death, incompetency, or disappearance of any producer who is entitled to the payment of any sum in settlement of a MAL or LDP, payment will, upon proper application to the FSA county service center that disbursed the MAL or LDP, be made to the persons who would be entitled to such producer's payment under the regulations contained in part 707 of this title.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 15650, Apr. 7, 2009; 75 FR 19193, Apr. 14, 2010; 80 FR 120, 129, Jan. 2, 2015; 86 FR 70705, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1421.5
Eligible commodities.
(a) Commodities eligible to be pledged as collateral for a MAL made under this part are:
(1) Barley, corn, grain sorghum, oats, peanuts, soybeans, oilseeds, wheat, dry peas, lentils, chickpeas, rice and other crops designated by CCC produced and mechanically harvested in the United States;
(2) Dual purpose sorghum varieties as determined by CCC; and
(3) Wool and mohair produced and shorn from live animals in the United States.
(b) A commodity produced on land owned or otherwise in the possession of the United States that is occupied without the consent of the United States is not an eligible commodity.
(c)(1) To be an eligible commodity, the commodity must be merchantable for food, feed, or other uses determined by CCC and must not contain mercurial compounds, toxin producing molds, or other substances poisonous to humans or animals. A commodity containing vomitoxin, aflatoxin, or Aspergillus mold may not be pledged for a nonrecourse MAL made under this part, except as provided by CCC in the MAL note and security agreement.
(2) The determination of eligibility for rice includes class, grade, grading factor, milling yields, and other quality factors and will be based upon the U.S. Standards for Rice as applied to rough rice whether or not such determinations are made on the basis of an official inspection.
(3) The determination of eligibility for peanuts includes type, quality, and quantity.
(4) With regard to barley, canola, corn, flaxseed, grain sorghum, oats, rice, soybeans, sunflower seed for extraction of oil, wheat, and other commodities designated by CCC, the determination of eligibility will be based upon the Official U.S. Standards for Grain: U.S. Standards for Whole Dry Peas, Split Peas, and Lentils for dry peas and lentils; and the U.S. Standards for Beans for chickpeas, whether or not such determinations are made on the basis of an official inspection.
(5) With regard to hull-less barley, hull-less oats, mustard seed, rapeseed, safflower seed, and sunflower seed used for a purpose other than to extract oil, the determination of eligibility will be based on quality requirements established and announced by CCC, whether or not such determinations are made on the basis of an official inspection. The costs of an official quality determination may be paid by CCC. The quality requirements that are used in administering MALs and LDPs for the oilseeds in this paragraph are available in USDA State and county FSA service centers.
(6) With regard to farm-stored peanuts, the determination of eligibility will be determined at the time of delivery to CCC by a Federal or State Inspector authorized or licensed by the Secretary.
(d) Eligible wool and mohair must:
(1) Have been produced and sheared from live sheep and goats, of domestic origin and located in the U.S. for a period of not less than 30 calendar days prior to shearing.
(2) Be of merchantable quality deemed by CCC to be suitable for MAL and must have been shorn in the United States.
(e) When certifying acreage on farms in which an interest is held, the producer must provide acceptable evidence of the commodity from which the county committee may determine whether the eligible production claimed by the producer is reasonable for the production practices on such farm or have either the eligible or ineligible commodity measured by a representative of the county FSA service center at the producer's expense, before commingling.
(f) A commodity that is purchased, substituted, or acquired by sale, gift, or exchange of an existing harvested, sheared, or slaughtered commodity, or through any other transaction is ineligible to be pledged as collateral for a MAL; in addition an LDP will not be made with respect to such commodities.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 32422, June 6, 2006; 74 FR 15651, Apr. 7, 2009; 75 FR 19193, Apr. 14, 2010; 80 FR 121, Jan. 2, 2015; 86 FR 70705, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1421.6
Beneficial interest.
(a) To be eligible to receive MALs and loan deficiency payments, a producer must have beneficial interest in the commodity that is tendered to CCC for a MAL or is requested for a LDP. For the purposes of this part, the term “beneficial interest” refers to a determination by CCC that a person has title to and control of the commodity that is tendered to CCC as collateral for a MAL or of the commodity that will be used to determine a LDP. A determination of whether a person has beneficial interest in a commodity is made by CCC in accordance with this
part and is not based upon a determination under any State law or any other regulation of a Federal agency.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, when requesting a MAL for a loan commodity, in order to have beneficial interest in the commodity tendered as collateral for the MAL, a person must:
(1) Be the producer of the commodity as determined in accordance with § 1421.4;
(2) Have had ownership of the commodity from the time it was planted (with respect to wool and mohair from time of shearing) through the earlier the date the MAL was repaid or the maturity date of the MAL;
(3) Have control of the commodity from the time of planting (for wool and mohair from the time of shearing) through the maturity date of the MAL. To have control of the commodity, such person must have complete decision-making authority regarding whether the commodity will be tendered as collateral for a MAL, when the MAL will be repaid, or if the collateral will be forfeited to CCC in satisfaction of the MAL obligations of such person, and where the commodity will be maintained during the term of the MAL;
(4) Not have received any payment from any party with respect to the commodity; and
(5) If the commodity has been physically delivered to a location other than a location owned or under the total control of the producer, have delivered the commodity to a warehouse authorized in accordance with § 1421.103(c). Delivery of the commodity to a location other than to such an authorized warehouse will result in the loss of beneficial interest in the commodity on the date of physical delivery and the producer will be considered to have lost beneficial interest as of 11:59 p.m. of such day. Accordingly, delivery of a commodity to entities such as a dairy, feedlot, ethanol plant, wool pool, feed mill, feed or grain bank, or other facilities as determined by CCC will result in the loss of beneficial interest as of the date of delivery, regardless of any other action or agreement between such an entity and the producer unless such an entity has been authorized by CCC under § 1421.103(c).
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, when requesting a loan deficiency payment for an eligible commodity, in order to have beneficial interest in the commodity a person must:
(1) Be the producer of the commodity as determined in accordance with § 1421.4;
(2) Have had ownership of the commodity from the time it was planted, with respect to wool and mohair from the time of shearing, or from the time of slaughter for unshorn pelts, through the date the producer has elected to determine the loan deficiency payment rate;
(3) Have control of the commodity. For control such person must have complete decisionmaking authority regarding whether a loan deficiency payment will be requested with respect to the commodity; when the loan deficiency rate will be selected; and where the commodity will be maintained prior to the date on which the LDP rate will be determined;
(4) Not have received any payment from any party with respect to the commodity; and
(5) If the commodity has been physically delivered to a location other than a location owned or under the total control of the producer, have delivered the commodity to a warehouse authorized in accordance with § 1421.103(c). Delivery of the commodity to a location other than to an authorized warehouse will result in the loss of beneficial interest in the commodity on the date of physical delivery and the producer will be considered to have lost beneficial interest as of 11:59 p.m. of such day. Accordingly, delivery of a commodity to entities such as a dairy, feedlot, ethanol plant, wool pool, feed mill, feed or grain bank, or unauthorized storage facility, will result in the loss of beneficial interest as of the date of delivery, regardless of any other action or agreement between such an entity and the producer unless such an entity has been authorized by CCC under § 1421.103(c).
(d) Notwithstanding any provision of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and § 1421.5(f), in order to facilitate handling situations involving the death
of a producer, CCC will consider an estate, heirs of the deceased producer, and a person to whom title to a commodity has passed by virtue of State law upon the death of the producer to have beneficial interest in a commodity produced by the producer under the same terms and conditions that would otherwise be applicable to such producer;
(e) Notwithstanding any provision of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and § 1421.5(f), a person who purchases or otherwise acquires a commodity from a producer under any circumstances does not obtain beneficial interest to the commodity whether such purchase or acquisition is made prior to the harvest of the crop or after harvest; however, CCC will consider a person to have beneficial interest in a commodity if, prior to harvest, such person has obtained title to the growing commodity at the same time that such person obtained full title to the land on which such crop was growing;
(f) If marketing assistance loans and loan deficiency payments are made available to producers through an approved CMA in accordance with part 1425 of this chapter, the beneficial interest in the commodity must always have been in the producer-member who delivered the commodity to the approved CMA or its member approved CMA, except as otherwise provided in this section. If the producer-member who delivered the commodity does not retain the right to share in the proceeds from the marketing of the commodity as provided in part 1425 of this chapter, commodities delivered to an approved CMA shall not be eligible to be pledged as collateral for a marketing assistance loan or be taken into consideration when a loan deficiency payment is made.
(g) A producer will lose beneficial interest in a commodity if the producer receives any payment from any person under any contractual arrangement with respect to a commodity if the person who is making the payment, or any person otherwise associated with the person making the payment, will at any time have title to the commodity or control of the commodity prior to or after harvest, shearing, or slaughter unless:
(1) Such payment is authorized in accordance with part 1425 of this chapter; or
(2) The payment is made as consideration for an option to purchase the commodity and such option contains the following language:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this option to purchase or any other contract, title and control of the commodity and beneficial interest in the commodity as specified in 7 CFR 1421.6 shall remain with the producer until the buyer exercises this option to purchase the commodity. This option to purchase shall expire, notwithstanding any action or inaction by either the producer or the buyer, at the earlier of:
(1) The maturity of any Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) loan that is secured by such commodity;
(2) The date CCC claims title to such commodity; or
(3) Such other date as provided in this option.
(h) Inclusion in a contract of one or more of the following types of provisions will not result in the loss of beneficial interest in a commodity:
(1) A provision that allows the producer to select the sales price of the commodity at a time the contract is entered into or at a later date, for example, a contract normally referred to as a deferred-price, forward or price later contract. The following conditions apply:
(i) Producers under a deferred-price, forward, or price later contract will lose beneficial interest in the commodity the earlier of receipt of any payment or once the commodity is applied in fulfillment of the delivery requirements of such a contract.
(ii) Beneficial interest in the commodity is retained by the producer if the contract has no restrictive or contradictory clauses within the contract that may cause the producer to lose beneficial interest in the commodity.
(2) A provision between the producer and a warehouse authorized in accordance with § 1421.103(c) for the storage of MAL collateral that provides the producer a period of time following the date of physical delivery of the commodity to elect whether the commodity is to be stored and receipted on
behalf of the producer or is to be considered transferred to the warehouse if CCC determines such a provision is required.
(i) Commodities produced under a contract in which the title to the seed remains with the entity providing the seed to the producer, including contracts for the production of hybrid seed, genetically modified commodities, and other specialty seeds as approved in writing by CCC, are eligible to be pledged as collateral for a MAL or a LDP may be made with respect to such production if, at the time of the request for such a MAL or LDP, the producer has not:
(1) Received a payment under the contract; or
(2) Delivered the commodity to another person.
[71 FR 32422, June 2, 2006, as amended at 71 FR 51426, Aug. 30, 2006; 71 FR 60413, Oct. 13, 2006; 74 FR 15651, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 121, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.7
Requesting MALs and LDPs.
(a) A producer may apply for a MAL or LDP at any FSA county office. The receiving FSA county office will forward the MAL or LDP request to the administrative county office, as specified in part 718 of this title, that is responsible for administrating programs for the farm on which the commodity was produced. The administrative county office will process and approve the MAL or LDP.
(b) A MAL or LDP may be requested in person, by mail, or by electronic format designated by CCC. Forms prescribed by CCC may be obtained from the FSA Web site.
(c) To receive a MAL or LDP for an eligible commodity, a producer must execute a note and security agreement or LDP application on or before the applicable final loan availability date, as follows:
(1) March 31 of the year following the year in which the following crops are normally harvested: barley, canola, flaxseed, oats, rapeseed, crambe, sesame seed, and wheat.
(2) May 31 of the year following the year in which the following crops are normally harvested: corn, grain sorghum, mustard seed, rice, safflower, soybeans, sunflower seed, dry peas, lentils, and chickpeas.
(3) January 31 of the year following the year in which peanuts are normally harvested or wool and mohair are normally sheared.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 15651, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 121, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.8
Eligible quantity.
(a) With respect to MALs and LDPs for:
(1) Farm-stored commodities, all determinations of weight and quality, except as otherwise agreed to or required by CCC, will be determined at the time of delivery of the commodity to CCC or at the time the LDP application is filed for measured requests, if applicable, or selected for spot-check for certified requests.
(2) Warehouse-stored commodities, all determinations of grade, weight and quality, except as otherwise agreed to or required by CCC, will be determined at the time the MAL is forfeited to CCC.
(b)(1) A producer may, before the final MAL availability date for obtaining a MAL for a commodity, repledge as collateral for securing a MAL any commodity that had been previously pledged as collateral for a MAL, except with respect to:
(i) Commodities that have been redeemed at the prevailing world market price for rice, or the alternative repayment rate for all other commodities, as determined by CCC.
(ii) Commodities on which a LDP has been received.
(2) The commodity repledged as security for the subsequent MAL will have the same maturity date, under § 1421.101 as the original MAL.
(c)(1) The MAL documents will not be presented for disbursement unless the commodity subject to the note and security agreement is an eligible harvested commodity, is in existence, and is in authorized farm or warehouse storage, as determined by CCC. If the commodity was not either an eligible commodity, in existence, or in authorized storage at the time of disbursement, the total amount disbursed under the MAL and charges plus interest must be refunded promptly by the producer.
(2) CCC will limit the total quantity for MAL or LDP disbursement to 100 percent of the quantity of such MAL or LDP application. A producer may obtain a separate MAL or LDP before the final loan availability date for the commodity for quantities in excess of 100 percent of such quantity if such quantities are otherwise eligible.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 15651, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 121, 129, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.9
Basic loan rates.
(a) Basic MAL rates for a commodity may be established on a National, State, regional, county basis or other basis, will be at rates that comply with applicable statutes, and may be adjusted by CCC to reflect grade, type, quality, location and other factors applicable to the commodity and as otherwise provided in this section.
(b) The basic MAL rates for wheat, corn, barley, oats, grain sorghum, rice, peanuts, soybean, canola, flaxseed, mustard seed, rapeseed, safflower, sunflower seed, dry peas, lentils, chickpeas, crambe, sesame seed, wool, mohair and other crops designated by CCC will be determined by CCC and made available to State and county offices.
(c) Subject to adjustment as specified in paragraph (f) of this section, in case of forfeiture, for all commodities except rice and peanuts, warehouse-stored MALs will be disbursed at levels based on the basic county MAL rate for the county where the commodity is stored.
(1) For rice, subject to adjustment as specified in paragraph (f) of this section, in case of forfeiture, warehouse-stored MALs will be disbursed at levels based on the milling yields times the whole and broken kernel MAL rates.
(2) For peanuts, warehouse-stored MALs will be disbursed at levels based on National loan rates by peanut type, adjusted for the schedule of premiums and discounts on the basis of grade, quality, and other factors specified on warehouse receipts.
(d) The Secretary will establish a single loan rate in each county for each kind of other oilseeds, such as but not limited to, sunflower, rapeseed, canola, safflower, flaxseed, mustard seed, crambe, sesame seed, and other oilseeds as designated by the Secretary.
(e) Adjustments by the Secretary to establish loan rates for loan commodities, except rice, on a county basis will not be lower than 95 percent of the national average loan rate, if those loan rates do not result in an increase in outlays. Adjustments in this section will not result in an increase in the national average loan rate for any year.
(f) For all crop years, premiums and discounts will not apply for all eligible loan commodities at loan disbursement, except for peanuts or additional commodities as determined by the Deputy Administrator on a crop year basis. However, premiums and discounts will apply if the eligible loan commodities are forfeited or delivered to CCC and any deficiency must be repaid to CCC.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 15651, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 122, 129, Jan. 2, 2015; 86 FR 70705, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1421.10
Loan repayment rates.
(a) For the applicable crop years of barley, corn, grain sorghum, oats, wheat, dry peas, lentils, chickpeas, oilseeds, wool, mohair, and other crops as designated by CCC (other than peanuts, long grain rice, medium grain rice, and confectionery and each other kind of sunflower seed (other than oil sunflower seed)), a producer may repay a nonrecourse MAL at a rate that is the lesser of:
(2) A rate (as determined by the Secretary) that is calculated based on average market prices for the loan commodity during a preceding 30-day period and that the Secretary has determined will minimize discrepancies in marketing loan benefits across State boundaries and across county boundaries; or
(3) A rate that the Secretary may develop using alternative methods for calculating a repayment rate for a loan commodity that the Secretary determines will: Minimize potential loan forfeitures; minimize the accumulation of stocks of the commodity by the Federal Government; minimize the cost incurred by the Federal Government in storing the commodity; allow the commodity produced in the U.S. to be marketed freely and competitively, both domestically and internationally; and
minimize discrepancies in marketing loan benefits across State boundaries and across county boundaries.
(b) To the extent practicable, CCC will determine and announce repayment rates under paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section based upon market prices at appropriate U.S. markets as determined by CCC and these repayment rates may be adjusted to reflect grade, type, quality, location, and other factors for each crop of a commodity as follows:
(1) On a weekly basis in each county for oilseeds, except canola, flaxseed, soybeans, and sunflower seed;
(2) On a daily basis in each county for barley, canola, corn, flaxseed, grain sorghum, oats, soybeans, sunflower seed and wheat; and
(3) On a weekly basis regionally for dry peas, lentils, chickpeas, wool and mohair.
(1) A producer may repay a nonrecourse MAL for peanuts at a rate that is the lesser of:
(i) The loan rate established for the commodity under § 1421.9, plus interest; or
(ii) A rate that the Secretary determines will: Minimize potential loan forfeitures; minimize the accumulation of stocks of the commodity by the Federal Government; minimize the cost incurred by the Federal Government in storing the commodity; and allow the commodity produced in the United States to be marketed freely and competitively, both domestically and internationally.
(2) To the extent practicable, CCC will determine and announce weekly alternative repayment rates for peanuts.
(d) For peanuts, the Secretary will require the repayment of handling and other associated costs paid under § 1421.104 for all peanuts pledged as collateral for a MAL that are redeemed under this section.
(e) The Secretary will permit producers to repay a MAL for long grain rice and medium grain rice at a rate that is the lesser of:
(1) The loan rate established for the commodity under § 1421.9, plus interest; or
(2) The prevailing world market price for the commodity, as determined and adjusted by the Secretary in accordance with this section.
(f) For purposes of this section, the Secretary will prescribe—
(1) A formula to determine the prevailing world market price for long grain rice and medium grain rice and
(2) A mechanism by which the Secretary will announce periodically those prevailing world market prices.
(g) Adjustments will be made to the prevailing world market price for long grain rice and medium grain rice.
(1) The prevailing world market price for long grain and medium rice determined under paragraph (f) of this section will be adjusted to U.S. quality and location.
(2) In making adjustments under this subsection, the Secretary will establish a mechanism for determining and announcing the adjustments in order to avoid undue disruption in the U.S. market.
(h)(1) The prevailing world market price for a class of rice will be determined by CCC based upon a review of prices at which rice is being sold in world markets and a weighting of such prices through the use of information such as changes in supply and demand of rice, tender offers, credit concessions, barter sales, government-to-government sales, special processing costs for coatings or premixes, and other relevant price indicators, and will be expressed in U.S. equivalent values F.O.B. (free on board) vessel, U.S. port of export, per hundredweight as follows:
(i) U.S. grade No. 2, 4 percent broken kernels, long grain milled rice;
(ii) U.S. grade No. 2, 4 percent broken kernels, medium grain milled rice; and
(iii) U.S. grade No. 2, 4 percent broken kernels, short grain milled rice.
(2) Export transactions involving rice and all other related market information will be monitored on a continuous basis. Relevant information may be obtained for this purpose from USDA field reports, international organizations, public or private research entities, international rice brokers, and other sources of reliable information.
(3) The prevailing world market price for a class of rice adjusted to U.S. quality and location, the adjusted world
price (AWP), as determined under paragraph (h)(5) of this section, will apply to this section.
(4) The adjusted world price for each class of rice will equal the prevailing world market price for a class of rice (U.S. equivalent value) as determined under paragraphs (h)(1) and (h)(2) of this section and adjusted to U.S. quality and location as follows:
(i) The prevailing world market price for a class of rice will be adjusted to reflect an F.O.B. mill position by deducting from such calculated price an amount that is equal to the estimated national average costs associated with:
(A) The use of bags for the export of U.S. rice, and
(B) The transfer of such rice from a mill location to F.O.B. vessel at the U.S. port of export with such costs including, but not limited to, freight, unloading, wharfage, insurance, inspection, fumigation, stevedoring, interest, banking charges, storage, and administrative costs.
(ii) The price determined under paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section will be adjusted to reflect the market value of the total quantity of whole kernels contained in milled rice by deducting the world value of broken kernels it contains, with the value of the broken kernels determined by multiplying a formulaic quantity of broken kernels (4 percent per hundredweight) by the world market value of broken kernels. The world market value of broken kernels will be based upon the relationship of whole and broken kernel world prices as estimated from observations of prices at which rice is being sold in world markets.
(iii) The price determined under paragraph (h)(4)(ii) of this section will be adjusted to reflect the per-pound market value of whole kernels by dividing the price by the quantity of whole milled kernels contained in the milled rice (96 percent per hundredweight).
(iv) The price determined under paragraph (h)(4)(iii) of this section will be adjusted to reflect the market value of whole kernels contained in 100 pounds of rough rice by multiplying such price by the estimated national average quantity of whole kernel rice by class obtained from milling 100 pounds of rough rice.
(v) The price determined under paragraph (h)(4)(iv) of this section will be adjusted to reflect the total market value of rough rice by:
(A) Adding to such price:
(
1
) The market value of bran contained in the rough rice, computed by multiplying the domestic unit market value of bran by the estimated national average quantity of bran produced in milling 100 pounds of rice; and
(
2
) The market value of broken kernels contained in the rough rice, computed by multiplying the estimated world market value of broken kernels by the estimated national average quantity of broken kernels produced in milling 100 pounds of rice;
(B) Deducting from such price an estimated cost of milling rough rice; and an estimated cost of transporting rough rice from farm to mill locations.
(5) The adjusted world price for each class of rice, loan rate basis, will be determined by CCC and announced, to the extent practicable, on or after 7 a.m. Eastern Standard Time each Wednesday or more frequently as determined necessary by CCC, continuing through the later of:
(i) The last Wednesday of July in the calendar year following the year the rice crop was harvested, or in which the rice MAL matures,
(ii) The last Wednesday of the latest month the rice MAL matures, or
(iii) If Tuesday is not a normal business day, the price determination may be made on the next work day and announced the following day, on or after 7 a.m. Eastern Standard Time.
(i) The producer may repay a MAL under this section for confectionery and each other kind of sunflower seed (other than oil sunflower seed) at a rate that is the lesser of:
(1) The loan rate established for the commodity under § 1421.9, plus interest, or
(2) The repayment rate established for oil sunflower seed.
(j)(1) On a form prescribed by CCC, a producer may request to lock in the applicable repayment rate for a period of 60 calendar days or for the remaining life of the MAL term, whichever is less,
provided that no request may be granted within 14 calendar days of the end of the MAL.
(2) The request to lock in the applicable repayment rate must be received in the FSA county service center that disbursed the MAL.
(3) The repayment rate that is locked in will be the rate in effect when the request to lock in is approved.
(4) The repayment rate may be locked in on outstanding farm-stored or warehouse-stored loans.
(5) The repayment rate that is locked in will expire as provided in paragraph (j)(1) of this section.
(6) The requests can only be completed one time for a designated quantity.
(7) For multiple locked in requests, the oldest unexpired locked in repayment rate is applied first.
(8) The completed and signed form can be submitted in person, by facsimile, or electronically.
(9) The requests cannot be canceled, terminated, or changed after approval.
(10) The locked in applicable repayment rate will transfer to any MAL disbursed outside of the originating county where the commodity was stored.
(11) Once a repayment rate is locked in it cannot be extended.
(k) If a producer fails to repay a MAL within the time prescribed by CCC under the terms and conditions of the request to lock in a market loan repayment rate, the producer may repay the MAL:
(1) On or before maturity, at the lesser of:
(i) Principal plus interest as determined by CCC; or
(ii) The repayment rate in effect on the day the repayment is received in the FSA County Service Center.
(2) After maturity, at principal plus interest.
(l) When the proceeds of the sale of the commodity are needed to repay all or a part of a farm-stored MAL, the producer must request and obtain prior written approval on a CCC-approved form and comply with the terms and conditions of such form, to remove a specified quantity of the commodity from storage. Approval does not constitute release of CCC's security interest in the commodity or release of producer liability for amounts due CCC for the MAL indebtedness if payment in full is not received by the FSA county office. Failure to repay a MAL within the time period prescribed by CCC in the case of a farm-stored loan and delivery of the pledged collateral to a buyer is a violation of the agreement. In the case of such violation, the producer must repay the loan principal and interest or another amount as determined by the Deputy Administrator, FSA, as specified in § 1421.109.
(m) The producer may obtain county committee approval of a release of all or part of pledged collateral for a warehouse-stored MAL at or before the maturity of such MAL by paying to CCC:
(1) The principal amount of the marketing assistance loan and charges plus interest or
(2) An amount less than the principal amount of the MAL and charges plus interest under the terms and conditions specified by CCC at the time the producer redeems the collateral for such MAL.
(n) A partial release of marketing assistance loan collateral must cover all of the commodity represented by one warehouse receipt. Warehouse receipts redeemed by repayment of the marketing assistance loan must be released only to the producer. However, such receipt may be released to persons designated in a written authorization that is filed with the county office by the producer within 15 days before the date of repayment.
(o) The note and security agreement will not be released until the marketing assistance loan has been satisfied in full.
(p)(1) If the commodity is moved from storage without obtaining prior approval to move such commodity, such removal will constitute unauthorized removal or disposition, as applicable under § 1421.109(b), unless the removal occurred on a non-workday and the producer notified the county office on the next workday of such removal.
(2) Any MAL quantities involved in a violation of § 1421.109 must be repaid under § 1421.109(e).
(q) In the event of a severe disruption to marketing, transportation, or related infrastructure, the Secretary
may modify the repayment rate otherwise applicable under this section for marketing assistance loans. Any adjustment made to the repayment rate for marketing assistance loans for a loan commodity under § 1421.5 will be in effect on a short-term and temporary basis, as determined by the Secretary.
[74 FR 15652, Apr. 7, 2009, as amended at 80 FR 122, 129, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.11
Spot checks.
(a) CCC may inspect the collateral for MALs, and producers with such MALs must allow CCC reasonable access to the farm and storage facility as necessary to conduct “spot check” collateral inspections. Spot checks are intended to verify that the quality and quantity of farm-stored commodities pledged as collateral for MALs are maintained by the producer.
(b) LDPs are selected for spot check to ensure that all eligibility requirements, as required by CCC, are met in order to receive such LDP.
(c) Producers must present production evidence for commodities acceptable to CCC when a spot check is conducted.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 80 FR 122, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.12
Production evidence.
(a) Producers who redeem MAL collateral at the prevailing world market price for rice, or the alternative repayment rate for all other commodities, as CCC determines or receives an LDP may be required to provide CCC with:
(1) Evidence of production of the collateral such as:
(i) Evidence of sales;
(ii) Delivery evidence;
(iii) Load summaries from warehouse, processor, or buyer;
(iv) Warehouse receipts including EWRs;
(v) Paid measurement service;
(vi) Spot check measurements with paid measurement service;
(vii) Cleaning tickets for seed;
(viii) Scale tickets, if not issued by the producer for the producer's own production;
(ix) Core tests for wool and mohair; or
(x) Maximum eligible quantity as determined by CCC.
(2) The storage location of the collateral that has not been otherwise disposed of and access to such collateral;
(3) Permission to inspect, examine, and make copies of the records and other written data as deemed necessary to verify the eligibility of the producer and commodity;
(4) In the case of wool and mohair, permission to examine and inspect the sheep herd; and
(5) Any other evidence requested by the county FSA service center or the Deputy Administrator, FSA.
(b) A producer who fails to provide acceptable evidence of production is be required to repay the market loan gain or LDP and charges, plus interest, as determined by CCC.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 80 FR 122, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.13
Special loan deficiency payments.
(a)(1) Eligible producers of unshorn pelts produced from live sheep and hay and silage derived from an eligible loan commodity as provided in § 1421.5 are eligible to request unshorn pelt, hay, and silage quantities for a LDP under subpart C of this part.
(2) Unshorn pelts, hay, and silage derived from an eligible loan commodity are not eligible to be pledged as collateral to obtain a MAL under subpart B of this part.
[71 FR 32424, June 6, 2006, as amended at 74 FR 15654, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 129, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.14
Obtaining peanut MALs.
(a) Peanuts MALs to individual producers may be obtained through:
(1) County offices; or
(2) A designated Marketing Association or a CMA approved by CCC.
(b) The MAL documents will not be presented for disbursement unless the peanuts pledged as collateral for the MAL are eligible as specified in § 1421.8. If the peanuts were ineligible at the time of the disbursement, the total amount disbursed under MAL, or as an LDP, plus charges and interest will be refunded promptly.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 80 FR 123, Jan. 2, 2015]

# Subpart B—Marketing Assistance Loans

# Source:
67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1421.100
Applicability.
This subpart provides the terms and conditions for MALs offered by CCC. Additional terms and conditions are also in the note and security agreement which the producer must sign to receive such MALs.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 80 FR 129, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.101
Maturity dates.
(a)(1) All MALs will mature on demand by CCC and no later than the last day of the 9th calendar month following the month in which the note and security agreement is filed and approved except for transferred MAL collateral. The maturity date for transferred MAL collateral will be the maturity date applicable to the original MAL that was transferred.
(2) CCC may at any time call the MAL by notifying the producer at least 30 days in advance of the accelerated maturity date.
(b) The maturity date of any MAL may not be extended.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 15654, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 123, 129, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.102
Adjustment of basic loan rates.
(a) Basic loan rates are established under § 1421.9 and will be adjusted or not adjusted as follows:
(1) For farm-stored commodities, except for peanuts, that exceed acceptable levels of contamination, the loan rate will be discounted to 10 percent of the base county MAL rate if pledged as collateral for a nonrecourse loan. Loan rates for commodities with acceptable levels of contamination will not be adjusted if pledged as collateral for recourse loans.
(2) For farm-stored commodities where the test weight discounts are on the:
(i) Crop year specific schedules of premiums and discounts, the MAL rate will be adjusted for the higher of the discount for test weight or grade based on test weight.
(ii) Additional schedule of discounts, the MAL rate will be reduced to 20 percent of the county loan rate.
(3) With respect to commodities harvested, excluding silage or hay, as other than grain and pledged as collateral for a nonrecourse MAL, the MAL rate will be discounted to 30 percent of the county loan rate.
(4) With respect to farm-stored wheat, the basic county loan rate will not be adjusted to reflect the protein content.
(5) With respect to Segregation 2 and 3 peanuts as determined by CCC, the MAL rate will be discounted to 35 percent of the applicable loan rate.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 15654, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 123, 129, 130, Jan. 2, 2015; 86 FR 70705, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1421.103
Authorized storage.
(a) Authorized farm storage is:
(1) A storage structure located on or off the farm, (excluding public warehouses that do not enter into an agreement with CCC), that CCC determines to be controlled by the producer which affords safe storage of collateral pledged for a MAL;
(2) If determined and announced to be available in a State or county, on ground storage and other temporary storage structures approved by CCC.
(3) As determined by CCC, temporary authorized storage may also include:
(i) On-ground storage or;
(ii) Other storage arrangements.
(b) CCC may reduce the quantity of a commodity pledged as collateral for a MAL made available under paragraph (a)(2) of this section to not more than 75 percent of such otherwise eligible quantity in order to protect the interests of CCC. CCC may also limit the length of time the commodity may be stored on-ground or in temporary structures to not more than 90 days. A MAL made with respect to such commodity that is not moved to a structure specified in (a)(2) within 90 days of the date the MAL was disbursed may be called by CCC.
(c)(1) Authorized warehouse storage consists of warehouses that:
(i) If Federally licensed, are in compliance with 7 CFR part 735 or
(ii) If not Federally licensed, are in compliance with State laws and that issue warehouse receipts that meet the criteria specified in § 1421.107.
(iii) If not Federally licensed or in compliance with State Laws and issue warehouse receipts that meet the criteria specified in § 1421.107, have entered into a storage agreement with CCC.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, if storing peanuts, the warehouse must in all cases have entered into a storage agreement with CCC. For storing other crops, notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, CCC may, on a case-by-case basis, still require a warehouse operator that would qualify under paragraphs (c)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section to enter into a storage agreement if deemed necessary by the Deputy Administrator to be needed to protect CCC's interests.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 15654, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 123, 129, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.104
Making MALs.
(a)(1) CCC may conduct such lien searches and may perfect its interest in loan commodities under State law as it deems to be in its interest.
(2) The cost for terminating the financing statement for MALs disbursed under this part before the end of the term will be paid by the producer.
(3) If there are any liens or encumbrances on the commodity pledged as collateral for a MAL made under this part, waivers that fully protect CCC's interest must be obtained even though the liens or encumbrances are satisfied from MAL proceeds disbursed under this part. No additional liens or encumbrances will be placed on the commodity after such a MAL is approved.
(b) Fees, charges, interest, and all applicable approved commodity assessment collections must be paid by the producer at a rate CCC determines or, in the case of assessments, at a rate approved by the assessment authority. Such fees, charges, and interest include:
(1) A non-refundable loan service fee;
(2) Interest that accrues on a loan under part 1405 of this chapter.
(c) To ensure proper storage of peanuts for which a MAL is made under this section, the Secretary will pay reasonable handling and other associated costs (other than storage) incurred at the time at which the peanuts are placed in a warehouse stored MAL. Such rates will be available in the State and county FSA offices.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 32424, June 6, 2006; 74 FR 15654, Apr. 7, 2009; 75 FR 19193, Apr. 14, 2010; 80 FR 123, Jan. 2, 2015; 86 FR 70705, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1421.105
Farm-stored MALs.
(a) The producer of a commodity pledged as security for a farm-storage MAL:
(1) Certifies the quantity of such commodity on the MAL application, or;
(2) Has such quantity measured by CCC at the measurement service rate established by CCC.
(b) The State committee may establish a MAL percentage not to exceed a percentage CCC establishes or it may apply quality discounts to the loan rate in each year for each commodity on a statewide basis or for specified areas within the State. Before approving a county committee request to establish a different loan percentage, or to apply quality discounts, the State committee will consider conditions in the State or areas within a State to determine if the MAL percentage should be reduced below the maximum MAL percentage or the quality discounts should be applied to the basic county MAL rate to provide CCC with adequate protection. MALs disbursed based upon loan percentages previously lowered and loan rates adjusted for quality will not be altered if conditions within the State or areas within the State change to substantiate removing such reductions. Percentages established or loan rates adjusted for quality under this section will apply only to new MALs and not to outstanding MALs. In determining loan percentages or the necessity to apply quality discounts, the State committee will consider any factor at its discretion, including the following:
(1) General crop conditions;
(2) Factors affecting quality peculiar to an area within the State; and
(3) Climatic conditions affecting storability.
(c) An eligible quantity of a commodity that is commingled with an ineligible quantity of the commodity is not eligible to be collateral for a MAL unless the producer, when requesting a MAL designates all structures that may be used for storage of the MAL collateral.
(1) In such cases, the producer is not required to obtain prior written approval from the county committee before moving MAL collateral from one designated structure to another designated structure.
(2) In all other instances, if the producer intends to move MAL collateral from a designated structure to an undesignated structure, the producer must request prior approval from the county committee in writing. The producer may request that the eligible or ineligible commodity be measured by a representative of the county office, at the producer's expense, before commingling, but such measurement is not required. Prior to commingling, with respect to wool and mohair, a representative of the FSA county committee may determine an average production of the wool and mohair in a manner approved by CCC.
(d)(1) Two or more producers may obtain:
(i) A single joint MAL for commodities that are stored in the same farm storage facility; or
(ii) Individual MALs for their share of the commodity that is commingled in a farm storage facility with commodities owned by other producers if such other producers execute an agreement that provides that such producers will obtain the permission of a representative of the county committee before removal of any quantity of the commodity from the storage facility. All producers who store a commodity in a farm storage facility in which commodities that have been pledged as collateral for a MAL will be liable for any damage incurred by CCC for the deterioration or unauthorized removal or disposition of such commodities.
(2) In such cases, each producer must execute a note and security agreement with CCC, and each such producer will be jointly and severally liable for the violation of the terms and conditions of the note and the requirements of this part. Each producer is also liable for repayment of the entire MAL amount until the MAL is fully repaid without regard to their share in the commodity pledged as collateral. In addition, such producer may not amend the note and security agreement for the producer's claimed share in such commodities, or MAL proceeds, after execution of the note and security agreement by CCC.
(e)(1) A producer, when requesting a MAL, will designate in writing specific storage structures.
(2) The producer is not required to request prior approval before moving marketing assistance loan collateral between such designated structures.
(3) Movement of MAL collateral to any other structures not designated or the disposal of such loan collateral without prior written approval of the county committee, will subject the producer to administrative actions.
(4) The producer is responsible for any loss in quantity or quality of the farm-stored commodity pledged as collateral.
(5) CCC will not assume any loss in quantity or quality of the MAL collateral for farm-stored MALs.
(f) If the producer does not pay CCC the total amount due in accordance with a MAL by the maturity date, CCC has the right to acquire title to the MAL collateral and to sell or otherwise take possession of such collateral without any further action by the producer. With respect to farm-stored MALs, the producer may, as CCC determines, deliver the MAL collateral in accordance with instructions issued by CCC. CCC will not accept delivery of any quantity of a commodity in excess of 110 percent of the outstanding farm-stored MAL quantity. If a quantity in excess of 110 percent of the outstanding farm-stored MAL quantity is shown on the warehouse receipt or other documents, the producer must provide replacement warehouse receipts and delivery documents. If the warehouse receipt and such other documents applicable to the settlement are not replaced to reflect the excess amount, CCC will provide for such corrected documents and apply charges for such service, if any,
to the producer's account as charges for settlement on the MAL.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 80 FR 123, 129, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.106
Warehouse-stored MAL collateral.
(a) A commodity may be pledged as collateral for a warehouse-stored MAL in the quantity delivered to CCC for storage at a warehouse that meets standards for approval at part 1423 of this chapter. Such quantity is the net weight specified on the warehouse receipt or supplemental certificate.
(b) Two or more producers may obtain a single joint MAL for commodities stored in an approved warehouse if the warehouse receipt pledged as collateral is issued jointly to the producers.
(c) If more than one producer executes a note and security agreement with CCC, each such producer is jointly and severally liable for the violation of the terms and conditions of the note and the regulations in this part. Each such producer also remains liable for repayment of the entire MAL amount until the MAL is fully repaid without regard to such producer's claimed share in the commodity pledged as collateral for the MAL. In addition, such producer may not amend the note and security agreement with respect to the producer's claimed share in such commodities, or MAL proceeds, after execution of the note and security agreement by CCC.
(d) Storage rates that CCC has approved to be deducted from MAL proceeds are available in FSA State and county offices and other USDA service centers. Deductions are based upon entries on the warehouse receipt or supplemental certificate, but the storage rate is not to exceed the storage rate CCC has approved. No storage deduction is to be made if written evidence acceptable to CCC is submitted indicating that:
(1) Storage charges through the maturity date have been prepaid; or
(2) The producer has arranged with the warehouse operator for the payment of storage charges through the maturity date and the warehouse operator enters an endorsement in substantially the following form on the warehouse receipt:
Storage arrangements have been made by the depositor of the commodity covered by this receipt through (date through which storage has been provided). No lien will be asserted by the warehouse operator against CCC or any subsequent holder of the warehouse receipt for the storage charges that accrued before the specified date.
(e) The beginning date to be used for computing storage deductions on the commodity stored in an approved warehouse will be the later of the following:
(1) The date the commodity was received or deposited in the warehouse;
(2) The date the storage charges start; or
(3) The day following the date through which storage charges have been paid.
(f) For hard red winter and hard red spring wheat tendered to CCC and stored in an approved warehouse, producers must obtain official protein content determinations or, as CCC determines is acceptable, protein content may be determined by mutual agreement between the producer and the warehouse operator. Costs of determinations will not be paid by CCC.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 15654, Apr. 7, 2009;80 FR 124, 129, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.107
Warehouse receipts.
(a) Warehouse receipts for MALs tendered to CCC as specified in § 1421.3 may either be paper or electronic. All receipts, whether paper or electronic, must meet all the applicable provisions of this section and this part, and CCC program document requirements. EWRs must be issued by a provider approved by CCC.
(b) Warehouse receipts must be issued in the name of the eligible producer or CCC. If issued in the name of the eligible producer, the receipt must be properly endorsed on its reverse side certifying that the crop is free of encumbrances in order for title to vest in the holder. Receipts must be issued by an authorized warehouse and must represent a commodity that is deemed to be stored commingled. The receipts must be negotiable and must represent a commodity that is the same quantity and quality as the eligible commodity
actually in storage in the warehouse of the original deposit.
(c) If the receipt is issued for a commodity that is owned by the warehouse operator either solely, jointly, or in common with others, the fact of such ownership is to be stated on the receipt. In States where the pledge of warehouse receipts issued by a warehouse operator on the warehouse operator's commodity is invalid, the warehouse operator may offer the commodity to CCC for a MAL if such warehouse is licensed under the U.S. Warehouse Act.
(d) Each warehouse receipt or accompanying supplemental certificate representing a commodity stored in an authorized warehouse must indicate that the commodity is insured. CCC shall not be responsible for the cost of such insurance.
(e) A separate warehouse receipt must be submitted for each grade and class of any commodity tendered to CCC and, for rice, such receipt must also state the milling yield of the rice, and for wool, such receipts must also state the yield and micron of the wool.
(f) With respect to peanuts, a warehouse receipt must be submitted exhibiting grade, type, and segregation for peanuts tendered to CCC.
(g)(1) Each warehouse receipt, or a supplemental certificate (in duplicate) that properly identifies the warehouse receipt, must be issued by an authorized warehouse as specified in § 1421.103(c)(1), as applicable, and must indicate:
(i) The name and location of the storing warehouse;
(ii) The warehouse code assigned by licensing authority;
(iii) The warehouse receipt number;
(iv) The date the receipt was issued;
(v) The type of commodity;
(vi) The date the commodity was deposited or received;
(vii) The date to which storage has been paid or the storage start date;
(viii) Whether the commodity was received by rail, truck or barge;
(ix) The amount per bushel, pound, or hundredweight of prepaid in or out charges;
(x) The signature of the warehouse operator or the authorized agent; and
(xi) For warehouses operating under a merged warehouse code agreement (KC-385), the location and county to which the producer delivered the commodity.
(2) In addition to the information specified in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, additional commodity specific requirements will be determined by CCC and be available at State and county offices and the Kansas City Commodity Office.
(h) If a warehouse receipt indicates that the commodity tendered for MAL grades “infested” or “contains excess moisture,” or both, the receipt must be accompanied by a supplemental certificate in order for the commodity to be eligible for a MAL. The grade, grading factors, and quantity to be delivered must be shown on the certificate as follows:
(1) When the warehouse receipt shows “infested” and the commodity has been conditioned to correct the infested condition, the supplemental certificate must show the same grade without the “infested” designation and the same grading factors and quantity as shown on the warehouse receipt.
(2)(i) When the warehouse receipt shows that the commodity contained excess moisture and the commodity has been dried or blended, the supplemental certificate must show the grade, grading factors, and quantity after drying or blending of the commodity. Such entries must reflect a drying or blending shrinkage as provided in paragraph (h)(2)(iv) of this section.
(ii) When a supplemental certificate is issued under paragraphs (g)(1) and (h)(2)(i) of this section, the grade, grading factors, and the quantity shown on such certificate will supersede the entries for such items on the warehouse receipt.
(iii) If the commodity has been dried or blended to reduce the moisture content, the quantity specified on the warehouse receipt or the supplemental certificate represents the quantity after drying or blending.
(iv) For commodities dried or blended under paragraph (h)(2)(iii) of this section, such quantity must reflect a minimum shrinkage in the receiving weight excluding dockage:
(A) For the following commodities, 1.3 times the percentage difference between the moisture content of the commodity received and the following percentages for the specified commodity:
(
1
) Barley: 14.5 percent;
(
2
) Corn: 15.5 percent;
(
3
) Grain sorghum: 14.0 percent;
(
4
) Oats: 14.0 percent;
(
5
) Rice: 14.0 percent;
(
6
) Soybeans: 14.0 percent;
(
7
) Wheat: 13.5 percent; and
(
8
) Peanuts: 10.0 percent.
(B) For the following commodities, 1.1 times the percentage difference between the moisture content of the commodity received and the following percentages for the specified commodity:
(
1
) Canola: 10.0 percent;
(
2
) Flaxseed: 9.0 percent;
(
3
) Mustard Seed: 10.0 percent;
(
4
) Rapeseed: 10.0 percent;
(
5
) Safflower Seed: 10.0 percent;
(
6
) Sunflower Seed: 10.0 percent;
(
7
) Crambe: 10.0 percent; and
(
8
) Sesame Seed: 10.0 percent.
(i)(1) If, under paragraph (g) of this section, a supplemental certificate is issued in connection with a warehouse receipt, such certificate must state that no lien for processing will be asserted by the warehouse operator against CCC or any subsequent holder of such receipt.
(2) Warehouse receipts and the commodities represented by such receipts may be subject to a lien for warehouse charges. For all commodities except peanuts, the producer who pledged such a receipt as collateral for a MAL under this part pays to CCC all costs incurred by CCC as result of the existence of the lien. In no event is a warehouse operator entitled to satisfy such a lien by sale of the commodities when CCC is the holder of such receipt.
(j) Warehouse receipts representing commodities that have been shipped by rail or by barge, must be accompanied by supplemental certificates completed under paragraph (g) of this section.
(k) If the warehouse issues an EWR for the commodity, the producer must notify the EWR provider to make CCC the holder of the EWR and to secure an affirmation verifying that CCC has been made the holder of the EWR.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 15654, Apr. 7, 2009; 75 FR 19193, Apr. 14, 2010; 80 FR 124, 130, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.108
Transfers and reconcentrations.
(a) Upon request by the producer before transfer, the county committee may approve the transfer of a quantity of a commodity that is pledged as collateral for a farm-stored MAL to a warehouse-stored MAL at any time during the MAL period.
(1) Transfer of all or part of the farm-stored MAL collateral to an authorized warehouse will be made through the pledge of warehouse receipts for the commodity placed under a warehouse-stored MAL. The loan rate of the transferred MAL will be the same as the loan rate of the original MAL. The MAL quantity for the warehouse-stored MAL cannot exceed the loan quantity transferred from the farm-stored MAL.
(2) Any amounts due the producer will be disbursed by the FSA county service center.
(b) The producer must request county committee approval before the transfer of a warehouse-stored MAL to a farm-stored MAL. The county committee may approve the transfer of part or all of a warehouse-stored MAL at any time during the MAL period. Quantities pledged as collateral for a farm-stored MAL will be based on a measurement or a calculation of average production of wool and mohair, by a representative of the county office before approving the farm-stored MAL. The producer must immediately repay the amount by which the farm-stored MAL is less than the warehouse-stored MAL and charges plus interest on the shortage. The maturity date of the farm-stored MAL is the maturity date applicable to the warehouse-stored MAL that was transferred.
(c) Upon the filing of the Reconcentration Agreement and Trust Receipt by the producer and warehouse operator, CCC may, during the MAL period, approve the reconcentration in another authorized warehouse for all or part of a commodity that is pledged as collateral for a warehouse-stored MAL.
Any such approval will be subject to the terms and conditions in the Reconcentration Agreement and Trust Receipt. A producer may, before the new warehouse receipt is delivered to CCC, pay CCC:
(1) The principal amount of the MAL and charges plus interest and applicable charges; or
(2) If CCC so announces, an amount less than the principal amount of the MAL and charges plus interest under the terms and conditions specified by CCC at the time the producer redeems the commodity pledged as collateral for such MAL.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 15654, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 124, 129, 130, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.109
Personal liability of the producer.
(a) When a producer obtains a commodity MAL, the producer agrees, in writing, not to:
(1) Provide an incorrect certification of the quantity or make any fraudulent or erroneous representation for the MAL;
(2) Remove or dispose of a quantity of commodity that is collateral for a CCC farm-stored MAL without prior written approval from CCC in accordance with § 1421.10; or
(3) Violate the terms and conditions of the note and security agreement, which will cause harm or damage to CCC in that funds may be disbursed to the producer for a quantity of a commodity that is not actually in existence or for a quantity on which the producer is not eligible. If CCC determines that the producer has violated the terms and conditions of the applicable forms prescribed by CCC, liquidated damages will be assessed on the quantity of the commodity that is involved in the violation.
(b) Such violations as referred to in paragraph (a)(3) of this section may include, but are not limited to:
(1) Incorrect certification;
(2) Unauthorized removal; and
(3) Unauthorized disposition.
(c) If the county committee determines that the producer has committed such violations, liquidated damages will be assessed on the quantity of the commodity that is involved in the violation.
(d) Liquidated damages assessed in accordance with this section will be determined by multiplying the quantity involved in the violation by 10 percent of the MAL rate applicable to the MAL note.
(e) When it has been determined that a violation of the terms and conditions of the note and security agreement has occurred as a result of unauthorized removal or disposition, CCC will determine the quantity of the commodity involved with respect to such violation and require the repayment of that portion of the MAL which is equivalent to such quantity of the commodity. In the case of these violations, if CCC determines the producer:
(1) Acted in good faith when the violation occurred, liquidated damages will be assessed according to paragraph (d) of this section and the commodity involved in the violation must be redeemed at the lesser of:
(i) The rate at which the MAL was disbursed, plus interest and any other charges assessed under the note and security agreement; or
(ii) The alternative repayment rate in effect on the date of the determination is issued by CCC that a violation has occurred, plus 15 percent of the original MAL rate as provided on the note and security agreement.
(2) Did not act in good faith when the violation was committed, liquidated damages will be assessed in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, and administrative actions will be taken in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section. The MAL is required to be redeemed at the rate at which the MAL was disbursed, plus interest and any other charges assessed under the note and security agreement.
(f) When it has been determined that a violation of the terms and conditions of the note and security agreement has occurred as result of an incorrect certification, CCC will determine the quantity of the commodity involved with respect to such violation and require the repayment of that portion of the MAL which is equivalent to such quantity of the commodity. In the case of an incorrect certification, if CCC determines the producer:
(1) Acted in good faith when the violation occurred, liquidated damages will be assessed according to paragraph (d) of this section, and the commodity involved in the violation must be redeemed at the rate at which the MAL was disbursed, plus interest and any other charges assessed under the note and security agreement.
(2) Did not act in good faith about the violation, liquidated damages will be assessed in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section and administrative actions will be taken in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section. The MAL must be redeemed at the rate at which the MAL was disbursed, plus interest and any other charges assessed under the note and security agreement.
(g) If the producer fails to pay such amount within 30 days from the date of notification of violations as provided in paragraphs (e)(1) and (f)(1) of this section, the producer must immediately repay the MAL at the rate at which the MAL was disbursed plus interest, and any other charges assessed under the note and security agreement.
(h) For violations as specified in paragraphs (e)(2) and (f)(2) of this section, the producer must immediately repay the MAL at the rate at which the MAL was disbursed plus interest, and any other charges assessed under the note and security agreement. If the MAL has already been repaid, any market loan gain previously realized on the MAL, plus interest, is immediately due to CCC. CCC will demand delivery of any remaining MAL collateral if the MAL and any other charges and interest are not repaid within the 30 calendar day notification period specified in paragraph (g) of this section.
(i) If the county committee determines that the producer has committed a violation, the county committee will notify the producer in writing that:
(1) The producer has 30 calendar days to provide sufficient evidence and information regarding the circumstances that caused the violation, to the county committee; and
(2) Administrative actions will be taken.
(j) If the MAL is accelerated, the producer may not repay the MAL at the alternative loan repayment rate, unless authorized by CCC.
(k) Producers denied or rejected for a farm-stored MAL for any reason under this section may apply for a warehouse-stored MAL.
(l) The MAL plus other charges are payable to CCC upon demand if a producer:
(1) Makes any fraudulent representation in obtaining a MAL, maintaining, or settling a MAL; or
(2) Disposes or moves the MAL collateral without the approval of CCC.
(m) A producer is personally liable for damages resulting from a commodity delivered to or removed by CCC containing mercurial compounds, toxin producing molds, or other substances poisonous or harmful to humans or animals or property.
(n) If the amount disbursed under a MAL or in settlement of the MAL, exceeds the amount authorized by this part, the producer is liable for repayment of the excess and charges, plus interest.
(o) If the amount collected from the producer in satisfaction of the MAL is less than the amount required under this part, the producer is personally liable for repayment of the amount of such difference and charges, plus interest.
(p) In the case of joint MALs, the personal liability for the amounts specified in this section is joint and several on the part of each producer signing the note.
(q) Any or all of the liquidated damages assessed under this section may be waived if the CCC determines that the violation occurred inadvertently, accidentally, or unintentionally.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 67939, Dec. 5, 2003; 71 FR 32424, June 6, 2006; 74 FR 15655, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 124, 129, 130, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.110
Commodity certificate exchanges.
(a) For any outstanding marketing assistance loan, a producer may purchase a commodity certificate and exchange that commodity certificate for the marketing assistance loan collateral.
(b) The exchange rate is the lessor of:
(1) The loan rate and charges, plus interest applicable to the loan; or
(2) The prevailing world market price, as determined by CCC, or the alternative repayment rate for all other commodities, as determined by CCC.
(c) Commodity certificate exchanges may not be used when locking in a repayment rate under § 1421.10.
(d) Producers must request a commodity certificate exchange on or before loan maturity in person at the FSA county office that disbursed the marketing assistance loan by:
(1) Completing a written request on the form or providing the information as required by CCC;
(2) Purchasing a commodity certificate for the exact amount required to exchange the marketing assistance loan collateral; or
(3) Immediately exchanging the purchased commodity certificate for the outstanding loan collateral.
(e) Loan gains realized from a commodity certificate exchange are not subject to AGI provisions specified in part 1400 of this chapter.
[86 FR 70705, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1421.111
MAL settlement.
(a) The value of MALs at settlement will be determined by CCC on the following basis:
(1) For nonrecourse MALs, the schedule of premiums and discounts for the commodity, provided that if the value of the eligible delivered collateral at settlement is:
(i) Less than the amount due, the producer will pay to CCC the amount of such deficiency and charges, plus interest on such deficiency; or
(ii) More than the amount due, the amount of such excess will be paid to the producer or, if applicable, to the producer and applicable secured creditors of the producer.
(2) For recourse MALs, full repayment of principal plus interest is required. As specified in § 1421.113, recourse MAL collateral may not be delivered or forfeited to CCC in satisfaction of indebtedness.
(3) If CCC sells the commodity described in paragraph (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section in settlement of the MAL, the sales proceeds will be applied to the amount owed as follows:
(i) For nonrecourse MALs, CCC will in all instances retain all proceeds obtained from the sale of the eligible commodity and will not make any payment of any amount of such proceeds to any party, including the producer who has satisfied their obligation under the MAL through delivery of the commodity to CCC. CCC will settle with the producer based on the quality and quantity of the commodity; or
(ii) For recourse MALs, the sales proceeds from the eligible collateral will be applied to the amount owed CCC by the producer. The producer will be responsible for any costs incurred by CCC in completing the sale and CCC will deduct the amount of these costs from the sale proceeds. If:
(A) The amount received from the sale of the collateral is less than the amount due, the producer will pay to CCC the amount of such deficiency and costs, plus interest on the remaining amount owed; or
(B) The amount received from the sale of the collateral is greater than the sum of the amount due, the amount of such excess will be paid to the producer or, if applicable, to the producer and applicable secured creditor of the producer.
(b) Settlements made by CCC for eligible commodities that are acquired by CCC and that are stored in an authorized warehouse will be made on the basis of the entries in the applicable warehouse receipt, supplemental certificate, and accompanying documents.
(1) All eligible commodities that are stored in other than authorized warehouses must be delivered to CCC as CCC instructs. Settlement will be based on entries in the applicable warehouse receipt, supplemental certificate, and accompanying documents.
(2) For eligible loan commodities that are delivered from other than an authorized warehouse, settlement will be made by CCC on the basis of the basic MAL rate that is in effect for the commodity at the producer's customary delivery point, as determined by CCC.
(c) Settlements made by CCC for peanuts acquired by CCC and stored in an authorized warehouse will be based on the settlement value at the time of the loan disbursement and the entries in
the applicable warehouse receipt, supplemental certificate, and accompanying documents subject to adjustments for changes in quality and other factors.
(1) All eligible commodities that are stored in other than authorized warehouses will be delivered to CCC as CCC instructs. Settlement will be based on entries in the applicable warehouse receipt, supplemental certificate, and accompanying documents.
(2) For eligible loan commodities that are delivered from other than an authorized warehouse, settlement shall be made by CCC on the basis of the basic marketing assistance loan rate that is in effect for the commodity at the producer's customary delivery point, as determined by CCC.
(d) For peanuts forfeited to CCC, the Secretary will pay reasonable storage, handling, and other associated costs for all peanuts pledged as collateral that are forfeited under this section.
(e) In all cases, settlements may be adjusted for changes in quality and other factors affecting the value of the commodity.
(f) Premiums and discounts will apply to all eligible loan commodities that are forfeited and delivered to CCC. There will not be any additional adjustments for peanuts at settlement, because such premiums and discounts will be accounted for when a peanut MAL is made.
(g) If a deficiency exists after the collateral securing a nonrecourse MAL has been delivered to CCC or a recourse MAL sold under a local sale, a receivable for such deficiency will be established as specified in part 1403 of this chapter.
(h) CCC will not assume any loss in quantity or quality of the loan collateral for any farm-stored MALs.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 32425, June 6, 2006. Redesignated and amended at 74 FR 15655, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 125, 129, 130, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.112
Foreclosure.
(a)(1) Upon maturity and nonpayment of a warehouse-stored MAL, title to the unredeemed collateral securing the MAL will immediately vest in CCC.
(2) Upon maturity and nonpayment of a farm-stored MAL, title to the unredeemed collateral will automatically transfer to CCC upon CCC demand.
(3) When CCC acquires title to the unredeemed collateral, CCC will not pay for any market value that such collateral may have in excess of the MAL indebtedness, (the unpaid amount of the note and charges plus interest).
(b) If the total amount due on a farm-stored MAL (the unpaid amount of the note plus charges, and interest) is not satisfied upon maturity, CCC may remove the commodity from storage, and assign, transfer, and deliver the commodity or documents evidencing title thereto when, how, and upon terms as CCC determines. Disposition may also be affected without removing the commodity from storage. The commodity may be processed before sale and CCC may become the purchaser of the whole or any part of the commodity at either a public or private sale.
(1) The value of settlement for a farm-stored commodity removed by CCC from storage and will be as provided in § 1421.111.
(2) If a deficiency exists after the collateral is sold, a receivable for such deficiency will be established in accordance with part 1403 of this title.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002. Redesignated and amended at 74 FR 15655, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 124, 130, Jan. 2, 2015; 86 FR 70705, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1421.113
Recourse MALs.
(a) CCC will make recourse MALs available to eligible producers of high moisture corn, high moisture grain sorghum, commodities that fall within acceptable levels of contamination and remain merchantable, and other eligible loan commodities as determined by the Deputy Administrator, Farm Programs.
(b) Repayment is required to be paid in full at principal plus interest on or before the loan maturity date.
(c) Recourse MAL collateral may not be delivered or forfeited to CCC in satisfaction of the loan indebtedness.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002. Redesignated at 70 FR 33799, June 10, 2005. Redesignated and amended at 74 FR 15655, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 126, 129, Jan. 2, 2015; 86 FR 70705, Dec. 13, 2021]

# Subpart C—Loan Deficiency Payments

# Source:
67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1421.200
Applicability.
(a) During the MAL availability period, LDPs will be made available to eligible producers when the alternative repayment rate is less than the applicable county loan rate.
(b) To be eligible to receive LDPs a producer must:
(1) Comply with all MAL eligibility including beneficial interest requirements.
(2) Agree to forgo obtaining such MAL, if applicable; and
(3) File in person, by mail or electronically a request for payment on a form prescribed by CCC; and
(4) Otherwise comply with all program requirements.
(c)(1) A producer must submit to the FSA Service Center a completed request for a LDP on forms prescribed by CCC. This submission must be received on or before the date beneficial interest is lost in the commodity and before the final loan availability date for the commodity. Such completed and submitted forms indicate the producer's intentions and further provide the terms and conditions of the LDP program. If all or any of the provisions of this paragraph are not met by the producer, the producer may not obtain the LDP benefit.
(2) With respect to a request for a LDP for unshorn pelts, a completed request for such a payment must be submitted on or before the earlier of the date of slaughter of the lamb or the loss of beneficial interest in the lamb or the unshorn pelt produced from the lamb. In addition, the lamb must have been owned for not less than 30 days prior to the date such application is filed with CCC and must have been slaughtered for personal use, or sold for slaughter and slaughtered within 10 calendar days after the sale.
(d) For unshorn pelts, the lamb must be owned for a period of not less than 30 days in advance of the application and sold for immediate slaughter or slaughtered for personal use. Producers must submit acceptable production evidence to CCC under § 1421.12 at the time of request. Producers who do not sell lambs for immediate slaughter are ineligible for a LDP.
(e) AGI requirements apply as specified in part 1400 of this chapter.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 32425, June 6, 2006; 74 FR 15655, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 126, 129, Jan. 2, 2015; 86 FR 70706, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1421.201
Loan deficiency payment rate.
(a) The LDP rate for a crop will be the amount by which the loan rate for the crop exceeds the rate at which CCC has announced that producers may repay their MALs as specified in § 1421.10.
(b) The LDP rate will be the rate in effect in the county where the commodity was marketed or stored on the date:
(1) The request for benefits is received in the FSA Service Center, if the producer retains beneficial interest in the quantity on that date.
(2) Beneficial interest was lost, as determined by CCC and as provided in §§ 1421.6 and 1421.13, if on the date the request for benefits was received in the FSA Service Center the producer no longer has beneficial interest in the requested quantity.
(3) The commodity is delivered, if the producer elects to receive the LDP rate based on the date of delivery.
(c) The LDP applicable to such crop will be computed by multiplying the LDP rate, as determined under paragraph (b) of this section, by the quantity of the crop the producer is eligible to pledge as collateral for a nonrecourse MAL for which the LDP is requested.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 32425, June 6, 2006; 71 FR 51426, Aug. 30, 2006; 74 FR 15655, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 126, 130, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.202
Loan deficiency payment quantity.
(a) A LDP may be based on 100 percent of the net eligible quantity specified on acceptable evidence of production of the commodity certified as eligible for LDP if such production evidence is provided for such commodity under § 1421.12.
(b) Two or more producers may obtain a single joint LDP for commodities that are stored in the same storage facility. Two or more producers may obtain individual LDPs for their share of the commodity that is stored commingled in a farm storage facility with commodities for which an LDP has been requested and will be liable for any damage incurred by CCC for incorrect certification of such commodities under § 1421.203.
(c) Two or more producers may obtain a single joint LDP for commodities that are stored in an authorized or unauthorized warehouse if the acceptable documentation representing an eligible commodity for which a LDP is requested is completed jointly for such producers.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 15656, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 126, 130, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.203
Personal liability of the producer.
(a) When a producer requests a LDP, the producer agrees:
(1) When signing the LDP Agreement and Request, as applicable, that the producer will not provide an incorrect certification of the quantity or make any fraudulent representation, that CCC will rely upon when determining eligibility for a LDP; and
(2) That violation of the terms and conditions of the LDP request, as applicable, will cause harm or damage to CCC in that funds may be disbursed to the producer for a quantity of a commodity that is not actually in existence or for a quantity on which the producer is not eligible. If CCC determines that the producer has violated the terms and conditions of the applicable forms prescribed by CCC, liquidated damages will be assessed on the quantity of the commodity that is involved in the violation.
(b) Liquidated damages assessed in accordance with this section will be determined by multiplying the quantity involved in the violation by 10 percent of the LDP.
(c) If CCC determines that the producer:
(1) Acted in good faith when the violation occurred, liquidated damages will be assessed according to paragraph (b) of this section and the producer must repay the LDP applicable to the loan deficiency quantity involved in the violation and charges, plus interest applicable to the amount repaid. If the producer fails to pay such amount within 30 days from the date of notification the producer must repay the entire LDP and any other charges plus interest.
(2) Did not act in good faith when the violation was committed, liquidated damages will be assessed in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section and the producer shall repay the entire LDP and any other charges plus interest.
(d) CCC may waive the liquidated damages assessed according to paragraph (b) of this section if the CCC determines that the violation occurred inadvertently, accidentally, or unintentionally.
(e) If, for any violation to which paragraph (b) of this section applies, the county committee determines that CCC's interest is not or will not be protected, the county committee will:
(1) Accelerate the maturity date on the producer's outstanding farm-stored MALs;
(2) Deny future farm-stored MALs for the current and 2 following crop years;
(3) Deny LDPs for the current and 2 following crop years unless production evidence is presented to CCC. Depending on the severity of the violation, the county committee may deny future farm-stored MALs and LDPs without production evidence.
(f) If the county committee determines that the producer has committed a violation, the county committee will notify the producer in writing that:
(1) The producer has 30 calendar days to provide sufficient evidence and information regarding the circumstances that caused the violation, to the county committee; and
(2) Administrative action will be taken under this section.
(g) If the amount disbursed under LDPs exceeds the amount authorized by this part, the producer is liable for repayment of such excess and liquidated damages, plus interest.
(h) In the case of joint LDPs, the personal liability for the amounts specified in this section is joint and several
on the part of each producer signing the LDP application.
(i) Any or all of the liquidated damages assessed under the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section may be waived as determined by CCC.
[67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 32425, June 6, 2006; 74 FR 15656, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 126, 130, Jan. 2, 2015]

# Subpart D—Grazing Payments for Wheat, Barley, Oats, and Triticale

# Source:
66 FR 13404, Mar. 6, 2001, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002.
§ 1421.300
Applicability.
(a) The regulations in this subpart are applicable to the eligible acreage planted to wheat, barley, oats, or triticale that is grazed by livestock and not harvested in any other manner. This subpart specifies the terms and conditions under which a grazing payment will be made by CCC in lieu of an LDP.
(b) The form that is used in administering these payments is available in State and county FSA offices and will be prescribed by CCC.
[66 FR 13404, Mar. 6, 2001. Redesignated and amended at 67 FR 63511, 63523, Oct. 11, 2002; 74 FR 15656, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 127, 130, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.301
Administration.
(a) This subpart will be administered by the FSA under the general direction and supervision of the Executive Vice President, CCC or designee. The program will be carried out in the field by State and county FSA employees under the general direction and supervision of the State and county FSA committees.
(b) State and county committees, and representatives and employees thereof, do not have the authority to modify or waive any of the provisions of the regulations in this part, as amended or supplemented.
(c) The State committee will take any action required by this part which has not been taken by the county committee. The State committee will also:
(1) Correct, or require a county committee to correct, any action taken by such county committee which is not in accordance with the regulations of this part; or
(2) Require a county committee to withhold taking any action which is not in accordance with the regulations of this part.
(d) No delegation herein to a State or county committee will preclude the Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee, from determining any question arising under the program or from reversing or modifying any determination made by a State or county committee.
(e) The Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs (DAFP), FSA, may authorize State and county committees to waive or modify deadlines and other program requirements in cases where timeliness or failure to meet such other requirements does not adversely affect the operation of the program. In addition, DAFP may establish other conditions for payments that will assist in achieving the goals of the program and may include such provisions in the program agreement or other program documents.
[66 FR 13404, Mar. 6, 2001, as amended at 80 FR 127, 130, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.302
Eligible producer and eligible land.
(a) To be an eligible producer for a payment under this subpart, the person must be a producer of wheat, barley, oats, or triticale in the applicable crop years. Also, to be an eligible producer, the person must meet all other qualifications for payment that are set out in this subpart, set out in parts 12, 718, 1400, and 1405 of this title. A person will not be considered the producer of the crop unless that person was responsible for the planting of the crop and had control and title of the crop at all times, including, at the time of planting and the time of the request for a payment under, this subpart.
(b) A minor may participate in the program if the right of majority has been conferred on the minor by court order or by statute, or if the minor participates through a guardian authorized to act on the minor's behalf in these matters. Alternatively, a minor may participate if the program documents are all signed by an acceptable
(to CCC) guarantor or if bond, acceptable to CCC, is provided by a surety.
(c) For the crop to be eligible, the crop, in addition to other standards that may apply, must be grown on land that is classified as “cropland” in FSA farm records or on land that FSA determines has been cropped in the last 3 years except that the land may also qualify if the land is committed to a crop rotation, normal for the locality, that includes harvesting the subject crop for grain. These rules are designed to assure, to the extent practicable, the available payment did not produce plantings that otherwise would not have occurred and the CCC may deny payments in any instance in which there is reason to believe that the planting was done for that purpose. To that end, if the commodity involved has not been previously grown by the producer or is not one which is not predominately produced locally, the producer must submit evidence of seed purchases for planting the commodities and other evidence deemed needed or appropriate by the COC in order to assure that the program goals are made and that the land was not planted to an eligible commodity simply to obtain a payment. Also, the land to be eligible must, for the year involved, be grazed and cannot, during the crop year, be harvested at any time for any purpose, except as determined by the Deputy Administrator to accommodate producers with a history of double-cropping when the crop to be harvested is not the crop for which a payment is to be made under this subpart. Land will be considered grazed only to the extent that the crop on the land is consumed in the field as live plants by livestock for the normal period of time for grazing in the area.
(d)(1) A producer must, at the time the LDP agreement is signed, meet all other eligibility criteria for obtaining LDPs including AGI requirements as specified in part 1400 of this chapter.
(2) For producers of triticale who obtain a payment under this subpart the producer must enter into an agreement with CCC to forgo any harvesting of triticale on the acreage for which such a payment is made.
(e)(1) No payment will be made if the crop could not have been harvested because of weather conditions or any other reason.
(2) The producer must retain the control and title of the commodity for which the payment is sought from the date of planting through the date on which mechanical harvesting of the crop would normally occur.
(f) Producers who elect to graze their wheat, barley, oats, or triticale will not be eligible for an indemnity under the Federal Crop Insurance Program provisions of Chapter IV of this title or a payment under the Noninsured Crop Assistance Program authorized under part 1437 of this chapter.
[66 FR 13404, Mar. 6, 2001. Redesignated and amended at 67 FR 63511, 63523, Oct. 11, 2002. Redesignated and amended at 74 FR 15656, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 127, Jan. 2 2015; 86 FR 70706, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1421.303
Time and method for application.
(a) Application for the program provided in this subpart must be received, at the FSA county office that is responsible for administering programs for the farm, no earlier than the date on which eligible crops would normally be harvested and no later than the final loan availability date as determined in accordance with § 1421.5.
(b) The application must describe the land to be grazed and, in accordance with standards set by CCC, the tract or field location.
(c) The COC will determine the first harvest date, taking into account the date on which such crops are normally harvested locally for any purpose.
(d) Where multiple producers are involved, the application must specify each producer's share in the crop.
(1) A producer may only receive payments under this subpart that are commensurate with that producer's share in the crop as specified on the application.
(2) Should a person who is entitled to receive a payment under this subpart die, that payment, as earned, may be made to other persons as provided for in the rules specified in part 707 of this title.
(3) Third parties may also receive payments to the extent provided for in
part 707 of this title for other situations involving an incapacitation of the producer.
(e) Refusals to allow CCC to verify information on any application or report used for this subpart can result in program ineligibility and producers must provide CCC, FSA, and its agent access to the property involved and to all records as may be relevant to the making of payments under this subpart.
(f) False statements will disqualify the producer from the program and may be subject to other sanctions including criminal sanctions.
[80 FR 127, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.304
Payment amount.
(a) The grazing payment rate will be the LDP in effect for the farm on the date which the producer submits a complete program application to CCC. For triticale, the grazing rate will be equal to the LDP rate in effect for the predominant class of wheat in the county where the farm is located as of the date the application is filed.
(b) The payable units of production will be computed by multiplying the eligible grazed acres by the applicable yield determined under paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) The payment yield will be:
(1) The yield for the loan commodity on the farm in effect for the calculation of Price Loss Coverage as specified in part 1412 of this chapter;
(2) For a farm for which Agriculture Risk Coverage is elected, the payment yield that would otherwise be in effect for that loan commodity on the farm in the absence of such election as specified in part 1412 of this chapter; or
(3) In the case of a farm for which no payment yield is established for the loan commodity on the farm, an appropriate yield as determined by the COC.
(d) Payments can be withheld until the actual grazed acreage is verified and justified in connection with any other reports filed with FSA with respect to the farm (or filed with some other person or agency) and until all other necessary information is obtained. CCC may require such other verification as it deems appropriate to assure that the program goals are met.
(e) To receive the payment, the eligible producer must submit a request for payment on an application form as prescribed by CCC or FSA. The application may be obtained from the county FSA office, or from the USDA or FSA web site in the Internet. The form must be submitted to the county by the close of business on or before March 31 of the calendar year following the year the crop is normally harvested.
(f) The producer will be ineligible for payments under this subpart if any discrepancies between the reported acreage on the program form and other reports of acreage by the producer are not resolved by a date set by CCC.
[66 FR 13404, Mar. 6, 2001. Redesignated and amended at 67 FR 63511, 63524, Oct. 11, 2002. Redesignated and amended at 74 FR 15656, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 127, 130, Jan. 2, 2015; 86 FR 70706, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1421.305
Misrepresentation and scheme or device.
(a) A producer is ineligible to receive payments under this subpart if it is determined by DAFP, the State committee, or the county committee to have:
(1) Adopted any scheme or device which tends to defeat the purpose of this program;
(2) Made any fraudulent representation; or
(3) Misrepresented any fact affecting a program determination.
(b) Any funds disbursed pursuant to this subpart to a producer engaged in a misrepresentation, scheme, or device, or to any other person as a result of the producer's actions, will be refunded with interest together with such other sums as may become due. Any producer engaged in acts prohibited by this section and any person receiving payment under this subpart, as a result of such acts, will be jointly and severally liable for any refund due under this section and for related charges. The remedies provided in this subpart will be in addition to other civil, criminal, or administrative remedies which may apply.
[66 FR 13404, Mar. 6, 2001. Redesignated at 74 FR 15656, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 127, 130, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.306
Refunds; joint and several liability.
(a) In the event there is a failure to comply with any term, requirement, or condition for payment arising under this application, of this subpart, and if any refund of a payment to CCC becomes due for that or other reason in connection with the application, of this subpart, all payments made under this subpart to any producer are to be refunded to CCC together with interest as determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section and late-payment charges as provided for in part 1402 of this chapter.
(b) All persons listed on an application are jointly and severally liable for any refund due in connection with that application and for any related charges which may be determined to be due for any reason.
(c) Interest is applicable to refunds required from the producer. Interest will be charged at the rate of interest which the United States Treasury charges CCC for funds, as of the date CCC made such benefits available. Interest will accrue from the date such benefits were made available to the date of repayment but the interest rate will increase to reflect any increase in the rate charged to CCC by Treasury for any percent of time for which the interest assessment is collected. CCC may waive the accrual of interest if CCC determines that the cause of the erroneous determination was not due to any action of the producer.
(d) Late payment interest will be assessed on refunds in accordance with the provisions of, and subject to the rates in part 1403 of this chapter.
(e) Producers must refund to CCC any excess payments made by CCC with respect to any application in which they have an interest. Such refund will be subject to interest at the same rate that applies to other refunds.
[66 FR 13404, Mar. 6, 2001. Redesignated and amended at 74 FR 15656, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 128, 130, Jan. 2, 2015]

# Subpart E—Designated Marketing Associations for Peanuts

# Source:
70 FR 33799, June 10, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to subpart E of part 1421 appear at 74 FR 15656, Apr. 7, 2009.
§ 1421.400
Applicability.
(a) This subpart specifies the terms and conditions under which an entity that is a DMA of peanut producers, or a subsidiary of such an entity, may qualify as a DMA, as defined in § 1421.3. DMAs may process peanut MALs and LDPs on behalf of producers.
(b) This subpart only applies with respect to peanut MALs and peanut LDPs.
[80 FR 128, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.401
DMA responsibilities.
(a) DMAs are eligible to process the MALs and LDPs provided for in this part only for peanut producers and only if the DMA and the producers and peanuts meet all eligibility criteria set out in this part, including, but not limited to, the DMA eligibility provisions of this subpart. In carrying out those functions, DMAs must:
(1) Prepare and execute the appropriate CCC peanut MAL and LDP application documents;
(2) Determine whether producers and the commodity are eligible for MALs and LDPs, including whether the otherwise eligible peanuts are free and clear of all liens which DMAs determine by performing lien searches at DMAs expense;
(3) Instruct the holder of EWRs, if applicable, to notify the EWR provider to amend the EWR to show CCC is the holder;
(4) Receive MAL and LDP documents from a DMA Service County Office;
(5) Disburse peanut MALs and LDP proceeds to eligible producers;
(6) Prepare and execute documents for MAL repayments;
(7) Collect MAL repayments from producers or buyers and transmit those funds to CCC;
(8) Transmit documents to render forfeited collateral to CCC; and
(9) Collect data for reporting to CCC as required by CCC;
(b) As part of performing the responsibilities in paragraph (a) of this section, DMAs:
(1) Become knowledgeable of and follow the procedures in CCC and FSA
peanut MAL and LDP regulations, applicable notices published in the
Federal Register,
applicable FSA peanut program handbooks and amendments thereto, and any applicable notices or instructions issued by FSA and the Agricultural Marketing Service.
(2) Make and service CCC peanut MALs and LDPs, only upon the presenting by producers or their agents of the warehouse receipts, unless otherwise directed by CCC.
(3) Attend, at the DMAs expense, DMA peanut MAL, and LDP program training offered by CCC.
(4) Provide sufficient personnel, computer hardware, computer communications systems, and software, as determined necessary by CCC, to administer the peanut MAL and LDP program.
[70 FR 33799, June 10, 2005. Redesignated and amended at 74 FR 15656, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 128, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.402
DMA eligibility to process MALs and LDPs.
(a) A DMA is eligible to process any MAL or LDPs only if approved in advance to handle such matters by the Farm Service Agency pursuant to this part; and
(1) The DMA meets the financial requirements and other requirements in this subpart and part;
(2) The DMA is comprised solely of peanut producers or is a subsidiary of an organization of peanut producers;
(3) The DMA is not controlled directly or indirectly by a person or entity that acquires peanuts for processing or crushing through a business involved in buying and selling peanuts or peanut products;
(4) The DMA does not take title at any time to any peanuts for which it processes MALs or LDPs, irrespective of whether such title is taken before or after those activities are performed. If such title or interest is taken, the DMA is required to return to CCC the full amount of the CCC proceeds disbursed with respect to the peanuts; and
(5) The DMA meets any additional requirements imposed by CCC or FSA.
(b) The DMA's activities under this part are to be conducted only with respect to peanuts and only for producers and peanuts that meet all the eligibility requirements of this part. Such requirements include, but are not limited to, the requirement of § 1421.6 that the producer must have the beneficial interest in the peanuts while the peanuts are under MAL or when the LDP is received and must be the only person that has had such an interest in the peanuts prior to that time except as allowed by § 1421.6.
[70 FR 33799, June 10, 2005. Redesignated at 74 FR 15656, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 128, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.403
DMA approval.
(a) Entities wishing to apply to be a DMA enabled to perform MAL and LDP functions under this part for peanuts must submit an application for such approval to FSA in a form approved by CCC. That application will include the following:
(1) Two originals of a properly executed Designated Marketing Association agreement containing the terms and conditions prescribed by CCC.
(2) A financial statement of not less than 1 year old on the date submitted, including accompanying notes, schedules, or exhibits, certified by a certified public accountant as fairly representing the entity's financial condition.
(3) The entity's tax identification number.
(4) A copy of any applicable incorporating or partnership documents.
(5) The applicant entity's mailing address, electronic mail address, and telephone number and facsimile number.
(6) Any and all information requested by CCC regarding the DMAs materials, and equipment as CCC determines is necessary for the applicant to perform the services for which the approval to perform is sought.
(7) A narrative explaining how the proposed DMA entity or parent entity provides marketing services to peanut producers.
(8) Any additional information or financial security requested by the Agency.
(b) Applicants are responsible for notifying FSA when any changes occur to their operations requiring amendments to their application or supporting documents.
[70 FR 33799, June 10, 2005. Redesignated at 74 FR 15656, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 128, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.404
Financial security.
(a) In order to be approved to handle MALs and LDPs, a DMA must:
(1) Have a current net worth ratio of at least 1:1; and
(2) Provide security equal to $100,000 or a greater amount as determined by CCC.
(b) [Reserved]
[80 FR 128, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.405
Liability.
(a) DMAs must indemnify CCC against any claim or loss by CCC in connection with the processing of any MALs or LDPs or other activity carried out by the DMA. If CCC pays any claim or suffers a loss as a result of the actions of DMA, or if a refund otherwise becomes due to CCC, payment in the amount of such losses or refund, plus interest, may be set-off by CCC from the financial security provided by DMA as required by this subpart. If the amount of the loss exceeds the amount of the financial security, such amount is paid to CCC by DMA with interest. Interest and other charges may be assessed consistent with § 1403.9 of this chapter. Remedies provided in this section or part are in addition to other remedies or penalties, whether civil, criminal or otherwise, as may apply.
(b) If a DMA becomes liable to CCC under paragraph (a) of this section or otherwise in connection with this subpart, such DMA is not eligible to process an LDP or MAL until the receivable amount owed CCC is paid in full, and the full amount of financial security required by this subpart has been restored.
[80 FR 128, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.406
Reporting requirements.
(a)
Report of changes.
A DMA must furnish information to CCC within thirty calendar days relating to any substantial change in the DMA operations including but not limited to the following:
(1) A change in its articles of incorporation;
(2) A resolution affecting MAL or LDP operations.
(3) A change to the DMAs name, address, phone number, or related information on the DMA agreement.
(b)
Other Information.
The DMA must supply such additional information as CCC may request related to the DMAs continued approval by CCC to process MALs and LDPs under the authority provided in this subpart.
(c)
CCC request for information.
CCC may require a DMA to submit updated information, a new application, or a request for recertification whenever CCC becomes aware of any changes or has any reason to be uncertain that the DMA is operating in a manner that is consistent with the information already submitted, or consistent with this part.
(d)
Annual recertification.
Within 4 months after the end of the DMAs fiscal year, a DMA must submit the following information to CCC:
(1) A current financial statement prepared according to generally accepted accounting principles;
(2) A report of audit or review of the financial statement conducted by an independent Certified Public Accountant. The accountant's report of audit or review must include the accountant's certifications, assurances, opinions, comments, and notes with respect to such financial statements.
(3) Additional financial security as determined by CCC, if the financial security on file with CCC does not meet current requirements or has expired.
(4) A report of changes as required under paragraph (a) of this section.
(e)
Activity report.
DMAs must provide CCC reports of MAL and LDP volume and benefit earnings made by the DMA for individual producers, and gains received on behalf of each peanut producer, in a format as directed by CCC.
[70 FR 33799, June 10, 2005. Redesignated at 74 FR 15656, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 128, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.407
Suspension and termination.
(a)
Suspension.
If CCC determines that a DMA is not in compliance with the DMA agreement CCC may suspend the DMA from making peanut MALs and LDPs until the DMA corrects the violation, or longer.
(b)
Termination.
The DMA agreement may be terminated by the DMA upon 30 calendar days' written notice to CCC. CCC may cancel the agreement at any
time. Upon termination DMA must immediately cease processing MAL or LDP requests and documents except as needed to preserve CCC's position with respect to existing MALs or LDPs.
[70 FR 33799, June 10, 2005. Redesignated at 74 FR 15656, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 128, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.408
Prohibited activity.
(a) DMAs approved to handle MALs and LDPs under this subpart may not:
(1) Discriminate against or deny any producer from receiving MALs or LDPs because of race, color, national origin, gender, religion, age, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, and marital or family status for which they would otherwise be eligible under the statutes regulating the MAL and LDP program.
(2) Pool peanuts for the purpose of obtaining peanut MALs or LDPs from CCC.
(3) Pool the proceeds obtained from peanut MALs or LDPs made by CCC.
(4) Process farm-stored certified or measured MALs or LDPs unless authorized by CCC.
(5) Take title to any peanuts.
(6) Operate the DMA under the same entity and tax identification number of a CCC-approved CMA.
(7) Refuse services to producers because the DMA was not granted a power of attorney for purposes of executing MAL documents to obtain MALs for the producer, repaying the MAL for the producer, obtaining LDPs for the producer, or marketing the producer's peanuts.
(8) Adopt any scheme or device to circumvent the purpose of the peanut MAL and LDP program regulations, the regulation governing DMAs, or the DMAs agreement with CCC.
(9) Process MALs or LDPs for producers involved in a bankruptcy proceeding unless authorized by CCC.
(10) Process MALs or LDPs on ineligible peanuts.
(b) If the prohibitions of this section are violated FSA or CCC may take one or more of the actions authorized in this part or otherwise authorized.
[70 FR 33799, June 10, 2005. Redesignated at 74 FR 15656, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 128, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.409
Monitoring AGI.
DMAs are required to monitor their producers' AGIs and may not permit repayments with a market loan gain on peanut MALs or process peanut LDPs for those producers with annual AGI over the allowable limit as specified in part 1400 of this chapter.
[86 FR 70706, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1421.410
Recordkeeping requirements.
A DMA must maintain producer MAL and LDP paper documents and electronic records for an indefinite period unless otherwise notified by CCC.
[70 FR 33799, June 10, 2005. Redesignated at 74 FR 15656, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 129, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.411
Forms.
For purposes of conducting business related to this part, a DMA may use either current CCC forms or other forms approved by CCC. A DMA may perform functions under this part only when approval has been obtained by CCC.
[70 FR 33799, June 10, 2005. Redesignated at 74 FR 15656, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 129, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.412
Powers of attorney.
DMAs may hold a power of attorney from a producer allowing the DMA to sign MAL and LDP documents for the producer, but DMAs may obtain and hold such powers only in accordance with the requirements of CCC governing such powers.
[70 FR 33799, June 10, 2005. Redesignated at 74 FR 15656, Apr. 7, 2009]
§ 1421.413
Liens and waivers.
(a) DMAs performing MAL-related functions pursuant to the authority in this subpart must determine, to the same extent as required for MALs handled by FSA county offices, whether a lien on the peanuts exists by performing or obtaining a lien search for all peanuts to be pledged for each MAL, except that the cost associated with such lien search and any necessary lien waivers is borne by the DMA. If a lien exists, the DMA must obtain, on an approved CCC form, a signed waiver from each lienholder with an interest in any such lien.
(b) [Reserved]
[80 FR 129, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.414
Producer request to a DMA for an MAL or LDP.
Peanut producers or their authorized agent may request that an MAL or LDP be processed by a DMA only if the DMA is approved under this subpart to process such a request and only if the producer supplies to the DMA:
(a)
Beneficial interest information.
Beneficial interest must be maintained by the producer according to § 1421.6 for the peanuts to be eligible for MAL or LDP; accordingly, the producer must supply to the DMA such information as it needed to make that determination.
(b)
Warehouse receipts and lien information.
Producers must supply for all peanuts either individual paper warehouse receipts in the producer's name or an electronic warehouse receipt (EWR) number and provider's name. Producers must supply relevant lien information regarding the peanuts; however, the producer's obligation in this regard does not relieve the DMA from making the appropriate lien search.
[70 FR 33799, June 10, 2005. Redesignated at 74 FR 15656, Apr. 7, 2009]
§ 1421.415
Processing marketing assistance loans.
(a) DMAs must take the following actions in the following order when an application for an MAL is filed:
(1) Make all the determinations that are a precondition for a MAL, including all producer eligibility requirements, lien determinations, and if requested by the producer, enter into a power of attorney agreement with the producer.
(2) If there is an EWR for the peanuts, instruct the current holder to notify the EWR provider to amend the EWR to show the DMA as holder. If a paper receipt is involved, the DMA must obtain the receipt (and later, at the appropriate time include the receipt in the documents delivered to the CCC).
(3) Complete all MAL forms.
(4) After the producer or the person holding the power of attorney for the producer signs MAL document, provide the signatory with copies of the documents.
(5) Where there is an EWR for the peanuts notify the EWR provider to make CCC the holder of the EWR and secure an affirmation verifying that CCC has been made the holder of the EWR.
(b) [Reserved]
[70 FR 33799, June 10, 2005. Redesignated at 74 FR 15656, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 129, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.416
Processing loan deficiency payments.
(a) DMAs must take the following actions in the following order when an application for an LDP is filed:
(1) In addition to other determinations that are required, the DMA must determine whether the producer exceeds the AGI limits to allow the receipt of the LDP. If the producer is over the AGI limit the DMA cannot process the request.
(2) If EWRs are applicable for the peanuts for which the LDP is sought, the DMA must instruct the current holder to notify the EWR provider to amend the EWR to show that the peanuts were used to obtain an LDP;
(3) The DMA must insure that the producer or the person holding the power of attorney for the producer signs the LDP documents; and
(4) If the peanuts and the producer are eligible for the MAL and all other conditions have been met, the DMA may disburse funds to the producer subject to the time limits set out elsewhere in this part.
(b) The LDP rate applicable to the LDP request will be the rate in effect on the date the DMA receives the request except as may otherwise be provided for in this part.
[70 FR 33799, June 10, 2005. Redesignated at 74 FR 15656, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 129, Jan. 2, 2015; 86 FR 70706, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1421.417
Disbursing MAL and LDP proceeds.
(a) A DMA may request that CCC establish a drawdown account from which to disburse MAL and LDP amounts to producers and designate the financial institution they wish to use.
(b) CCC will determine whether a drawdown account is justified and the amount of the account.
(c) If there is no drawdown account, MAL and LDP proceeds are to be distributed to the producer within 3 work days from the date the DMA receives MAL or LDP proceeds from CCC, after deduction of authorized charges or fees for services. If there is a drawdown account, the MAL and LDP proceeds are to be distributed to the producer within 3 days of the completion of the application.
(d) The DMA is to assess charges and fees at the same rate for each producer that it serves.
(e) If a drawdown account is used, CCC will replenish the amount as necessary as it is drawn down.
(f) The DMA must notify CCC of the actual date on which the MAL is disbursed.
[70 FR 33799, June 10, 2005. Redesignated at 74 FR 15656, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 129, 130, Jan. 2, 2015; 86 FR 70706, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1421.418
Submitting MAL and LDP documentation to FSA.
(a) Until such time as an alternative FSA MAL- or LDP-making system is made available to DMAs, within 3 business days of any DMA prepared disbursement, the DMA must separately group and submit to FSA:
(1) MALs with the same disbursement date, peanut type, warehouse code, and State where peanuts were inspected; and
(2) LDPs with the same LDP rate, approval date, and peanut type.
(b) Each of the groups identified in paragraph (a) of this section must be submitted to FSA with the following documents:
(1) Individual paper warehouse receipts or EWR numbers, and the EWR provider's name representing the bundled MALs or LDPs.
(2) A form to itemize receipts, and other data, as required, or a pre-processed electronic file containing data required by FSA.
(c) FSA may process each DMA prepared MAL or LDP group for the volume of peanuts on multiple receipts as one MAL or LDP, waive the service fee to the DMA, and either hold MAL paper warehouse receipts, or verify that CCC is holder of the EWRs as of the date of disbursement.
(d) In the case of an MAL, if CCC was not the holder of the EWR on or before the date the DMA prepared MAL was disbursed, the applicable receipts will be rejected, and funds will not be distributed to the DMA drawdown account until CCC becomes the holder of the EWR.
(e) If MAL and LDP documentation is acceptable, FSA will disburse MAL or LDP funds to the DMA, with appropriate supporting documentation.
[70 FR 33799, June 10, 2005. Redesignated at 74 FR 15656, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 129, 130, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.419
MAL or LDP servicing.
(a) The DMA is responsible for servicing MALs and are required to take the following actions:
(1) Send the producer a maturity notice letter before MAL maturity.
(2) Maintain the MAL or LDP documents according to FSA requirements.
(3) Transmit the necessary funds to repay the MAL to FSA.
(b) FSA will process the CCC release of paper receipts or EWRs where such a release is appropriate.
[70 FR 33799, June 10, 2005. Redesignated at 74 FR 15656, Apr. 7, 2009;80 FR 129, 130, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.420
Inspections and reviews.
The books, documents, papers, and records of the DMA and parent company must be maintained for 6 years after the applicable crop year and be made available to CCC for inspection and examination at all reasonable times. At any time after an application is received, CCC has the right to examine all books, documents, papers, and determine whether the DMA is operating or has operated in accordance with the regulations in this part, any articles of incorporation, articles of association, partnership documents, agreements with producers, the representations made by the DMA in its application for approval, and, where applicable, its agreements with CCC. If the DMA is determined to be not complying with this part or any of its agreements, CCC will take appropriate action as provided in elsewhere in this
subpart or other action CCC determines appropriate.
[80 FR 129, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1421.421
Appeals.
Parts 11 and 780 of this title apply to this subpart.
[70 FR 33799, June 10, 2005. Redesignated at 74 FR 15656, Apr. 7, 2009]
Pt. 1423

# PART 1423—COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION APPROVED WAREHOUSES
Sec.
1423.1
Applicability.
1423.2
Administration.
1423.3
Definitions.
1423.4
General requirements.
1423.5
Application requirements.
1423.6
Financial information documentation requirements.
1423.7
Net worth alternatives.
1423.8
Approval or rejection.
1423.9
Examination of warehouses.
1423.10
Exceptions for United States Warehouse Act licensed warehouses.
1423.11
Delivery and shipping standards for cotton warehouses.
1423.12
Application, inspection, and annual agreement fees.
1423.13
Appeals, suspensions, and debarment.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 714b and 714c.

# Source:
71 FR 35773, June 22, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1423.1
Applicability.
(a) This part sets forth the terms and conditions for approval of a warehouse operator by the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) to store and handle CCC interest commodities, which are owned by CCC and, as may be required under parts 1421, 1427 and 1435 of this title, with respect to commodities pledged as security for a loan made by CCC. CCC may require that a warehouse enter into a storage agreement under this part to store such commodities. The execution of such a storage agreement by CCC does not constitute a commitment that CCC will use the warehouse.
(b) By entering into a storage agreement with CCC, the warehouse operator agrees to comply with the terms and conditions of the storage agreement.
§ 1423.2
Administration.
On behalf of CCC, the Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) will administer this part under the supervision of the AMS Administrator.
[84 FR 29033, June 21, 2019]
§ 1423.3
Definitions.
Active shipping order
means an early shipping order or shipping order, as defined in this section, scheduled for a current cotton warehouse reporting week or for a prior reporting week, but not picked up.
Agreement
means agreements covering storage and handling of any such commodity CCC may determine appropriate for storage.
Early shipping order
means a list of bale tag numbers sent to a cotton warehouse operator without transfer of warehouse receipts.
Shipping order
means a list of bale tag numbers sent to a cotton warehouse operator accompanied by transfer of warehouse receipts.
Warehouse
means a building, structure, or other protected enclosure, in good state of repair, and adequately equipped to receive, handle, store, preserve, and deliver the applicable commodity.
Warehouse operator
means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other legal entity engaged in the business of storing or handling for hire, or both, the applicable commodity.
[71 FR 35773, June 22, 2006, as amended at 75 FR 50849, Aug. 18, 2010; 84 FR 29033, June 21, 2019]
§ 1423.4
General requirements.
(a) Unless otherwise provided in this part, approved warehouse operators must maintain a current and valid license for the kind of storage operation for which the warehouse operator seeks approval if such a license is required by State or local laws or regulations and maintain accurate and complete inventory and operating records.
(b) Approved warehouse operators may only use pre-numbered warehouse receipts, or pre-assigned ranges of numbers for electronic warehouse receipts as set forth in the agreement, and may only use pre-numbered scale
tickets, if applicable, as CCC may approve.
(c) In addition, the warehouse operator must:
(1) Be in compliance with state and local laws regarding fire safety;
(2) Furnish a copy of any written lease agreement to CCC with the application. All leases are subject to CCC approval; and
(3) Have sufficient employees and management with technical qualifications and skills in the warehousing business regarding the commodities subject to the agreement.
(d) Unless otherwise provided in this part, each approved warehouse shall:
(1) Be maintained under the control of the warehouse operator;
(2) Be maintained in a good state of repair; and
(3) Maintain adequate equipment to receive, handle, store, preserve and deliver the applicable commodity.
§ 1423.5
Application requirements.
To apply for approval under this part, a warehouse operator shall submit to CCC the following:
(a) An application as prescribed by CCC for the applicable commodity storage agreement;
(b) Evidence of compliance with § 1423.4;
(c) Current financial information sufficient to meet the requirements of § 1423.6;
(d) For State licensed or non-licensed warehouse operators, a sample copy of the warehouse operator's warehouse receipts or electronic warehouse receipt record descriptor when applicable; and
(e) Such other documents or information as CCC may require to make a determination that the warehouse operator can comply with the provisions of this part.
§ 1423.6
Financial information documentation requirements.
To be approved under this part, a warehouse operator shall submit a current financial statement at the time of application, and annually thereafter, as provided for in the applicable storage agreement.
§ 1423.7
Net worth alternatives.
Warehouse operators with net worth equal to or greater than the minimum net worth required, but less than the total net worth for the commodity involved in the particular agreement, may satisfy the net worth deficiency by furnishing one of the following:
(a) A bond which:
(1) Is executed by a surety approved by the U.S. Department of the Treasury so long as the surety maintains someone authorized to accept service of legal process in the State where the warehouse is located.
(2) Is executed on either a bond form obtained from CCC, or which is furnished under State law or operational rules for non-governmental supervisory agencies, if approved by CCC, so long as CCC determines that such alternative bond:
(i) Provides adequate protection to CCC;
(ii) Has been executed by a surety approved by the U.S. Department of the Treasury or has an acceptable blanket rider and endorsement executed by such a surety with the liability of the surety under such rider or endorsement being the same as that of the surety under the original bond; and
(iii) Is effective for at least 1 year and cannot be canceled without 120 days notice to CCC. Excess coverage on a bond for one warehouse will not be accepted by CCC against insufficient bond coverage on other warehouses;
(b) Cash and negotiable securities. Any such cash or negotiable securities accepted by CCC will be returned to the warehouse operator when the period for which coverage was required has ended and CCC determines there is no liability under the storage agreement;
(c) An irrevocable letter of credit meeting CCC requirements that is effective for at least 1 year and cannot be canceled without 120 days notice to CCC. The issuing bank must be a commercial bank insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or a financial institution subject to the Farm Credit Act; or
(d) Other alternative instruments and forms of financial assurance as the
AMS Administrator determines appropriate to secure the warehouse operator's compliance with this section.
[71 FR 35773, June 22, 2006, as amended at 84 FR 29033, June 21, 2019]
§ 1423.8
Approval or rejection.
(a) CCC will notify warehouse operators approved under this part in writing. Such approval does not relieve the warehouse operator of any obligation under any agreement to CCC or any other agency of the United States, and does not obligate CCC to use the warehouse.
(b) CCC will notify the warehouse operator of rejection under this part in writing. The notification will state the causes for rejection. CCC will reconsider a warehouse for approval when the warehouse operator establishes that the reasons for rejection have been remedied or requests reconsideration of the action and presents to the Director, Warehouse and Commodity Management Division, AMS, in writing, information in support of such request. The warehouse operator may, if dissatisfied with the Director's determination, obtain a review of the determination and an informal hearing by submitting a request with the AMS Administrator. Appeals shall be as prescribed in part 780 of this title.
[71 FR 35773, June 22, 2006, as amended at 71 FR 42017, July 25, 2006; 84 FR 29033, June 21, 2019]
§ 1423.9
Examination of warehouses.
Before approval, and while a storage agreement is in effect, a warehouse must be examined by a person designated by CCC periodically to determine compliance with this part. CCC or any other agency of USDA shall, at any time, have the right to inspect the warehouse storage facilities and any applicable records. Inspection or examination by CCC does not absolve the warehouse operator of any failure to comply with this part that CCC does not discover. Failure to allow access to facilities as required under this paragraph will result in rejection or revocation of approval.
§ 1423.10
Exceptions for United States Warehouse Act licensed warehouses.
The financial requirements, net worth alternatives and examination provisions of this part do not apply if the warehouse operator is licensed under the U.S. Warehouse Act (USWA) for such commodities, but an examination under this part will be made of such a warehouse whenever CCC determines such action is necessary to protect its interests.
§ 1423.11
Delivery and shipping standards for cotton warehouses.
(a) Unless prevented from doing so by severe weather conditions, fire, explosion, flood, earthquake, insurrection, riot, strike, labor dispute, acts of civil or military authority, non-availability of transportation facilities or any cause beyond the control of the warehouse operator that renders performance impossible, the warehouse operator will:
(1) Deliver stored cotton without unnecessary delay.
(2) Be considered to have delivered cotton without unnecessary delay if the warehouse operator has made available for shipment at least 4.5 percent of its applicable storage capacity in effect, measured as the bales made available for shipment (BMAS):
(i) During the relevant week of shipment; or
(ii) Calculated as the two-week, rolling average of the BMAS for the relevant week of shipment and the BMAS for the immediately preceding week; or
(iii) Calculated as the two-week, rolling average of the BMAS for the relevant week of shipment and the BMAS for the immediately succeeding week.
(b) The warehouse operator shall provide a written report to CCC on a weekly basis. The reporting week shall be the seven day period starting at midnight following the close of business on each Saturday and ending at midnight after close of business of the following Saturday. Before close of business of the first business day of the following week, the warehouse operator will provide following information to CCC:
(1) BMAS during such week is defined as any cotton bales that have been delivered or are scheduled and ready for
delivery but not picked up during such week;
(2) Active shipping orders, by week; and
(3) Applicable storage capacity that is the higher of CCC approved capacity or the maximum number of bales stored at any time during the applicable crop year.
(c) The warehouse operator may resolve any claim for noncompliance from any entity other than CCC with the cotton shipping standard in a court of competent jurisdiction or through mutually agreed upon arbitration procedures. In no case will CCC provide assistance or representation to parties involved in arbitration proceedings arising with respect to activities authorized under the Cotton Storage Agreement.
[71 FR 51426, Aug. 30, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 70997, Dec. 1, 2014; 84 FR 29033, June 21, 2019]
§ 1423.12
Application, inspection, and annual agreement fees.
Each warehouse operator not licensed under USWA shall pay to CCC a fee or fees, including an application fee, inspection fee, and an annual agreement fee for each warehouse approved by CCC or for which approval is sought. The terms and conditions of such fees will be set forth in the applicable agreement.
§ 1423.13
Appeals, suspensions, and debarment.
(a) After initial approval, warehouse operators may request that CCC reconsider adverse actions when the warehouse operator establishes that the reasons for the action have been remedied or requests reconsideration of the action and presents to the Director, Warehouse and Commodity Management Division, AMS, in writing, information in support of such request. The warehouse operator may, if dissatisfied with the Director's determination, obtain a review of the determination and an informal hearing by submitting a request to the AMS Administrator. Appeals shall be as prescribed in part 780 of this title, and under such regulations the warehouse operator shall be considered as a “participant.”
(b) Suspension and debarment actions taken under this part shall be conducted in accordance with part 1407 of this chapter. After expiration of the suspension or debarment period, a warehouse operator may, at any time, apply for approval under this part.
[71 FR 35773, June 22, 2006, as amended at 84 FR 29033, June 21, 2019]
Pt. 1424

# PART 1424—BIOENERGY PROGRAM
Sec.
1424.1
Applicability.
1424.2
Administration.
1424.3
Definitions.
1424.4
General eligibility rules.
1424.5
Agreement process.
1424.6
Payment application process.
1424.7
Gross payable units.
1424.8
Payment amounts.
1424.9
Reports required.
1424.10
Succession and control of facilities and production.
1424.11
Maintenance and inspection of records.
1424.12
Appeals.
1424.13
Misrepresentation and scheme or device.
1424.14
Offsets, assignments, interest and waivers.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 8108, 15 U.S.C. 714b and 714c.

# Source:
68 FR 24600, May 7, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1424.1
Applicability.
This part sets out regulations for the Bioenergy Program (program). It sets forth, subject to the availability of funds as provided herein, or as may be limited by law, the terms and conditions a bioenergy producer must meet to obtain payments under this program and part from the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) for eligible bioenergy production. Additional terms and conditions may be set forth in the document required to request program benefits and in the program contract or agreement prescribed by CCC. This program is effective October 1, 2002, through September 30, 2006.
§ 1424.2
Administration.
This part shall be administered by the Executive Vice President, CCC, under the general direction and supervision of the Executive Vice President
or designee. The Executive Vice President or a designee may authorize a waiver or modification of deadlines and other program requirements in cases where lateness or failure to meet such other requirements does not adversely affect the operation of the program, and may set such additional requirements as will facilitate the operation of the program. The funds available for the program shall be limited as set by this rule, otherwise announced by the Executive Vice President, CCC, or limited by law.
§ 1424.3
Definitions.
The definitions set forth in this section shall be applicable for all purposes of program administration under this subpart.
Agreement
means the Bioenergy Program Agreement or other form prescribed by CCC that must be executed for participation in the program.
Application
means the application form prescribed by CCC or another form that contains the same terms, conditions, and information required.
ATF
means the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives of the United States Department of Justice.
Base production
means a biodiesel producer's current FY's biodiesel production from eligible commodities that is not an increase over biodiesel production in the previous FY to date.
Biodiesel
means a mono alkyl ester manufactured in the United States and its territories that meets the requirements of an appropriate American Society for Testing and Materials Standard.
Biodiesel
producer means a producer that produces and sells biodiesel who is also registered and in compliance with section 211 (b) of the Environmental Protection Agency Clean Air Act Amendment of 1990.
Bioenergy
means ethanol and biodiesel produced from eligible commodities.
Conversion factor
means:
(1) For ethanol production, a factor that converts the number of ethanol gallons back to commodity units as determined in the manner announced by CCC;
(2) For biodiesel production, the factor that will treat 1.4 gallons of biodiesel produced as having involved the consumption of one bushel of soybeans in any case when the feedstock was an eligible commodity that has a corresponding oil or grease market price; if there is none, then the factor shall be as determined and announced by CCC.
Eligible commodity
means barley; corn; grain sorghum; oats; rice; wheat; soybeans; cotton seed; sunflower seed; canola; crambe; rapeseed; safflower; sesame seed; flaxseed; mustard seed; cellulosic crops, such as switchgrass and hybrid poplars; fats, oils, and greases (including recycled fats, oils and greases) derived from an agricultural product; and any animal byproduct (in addition to oils, fats and greases) that may be used to produce bioenergy, as CCC determines, that is produced in the United States and its territories.
Eligible producer
means a bioenergy producer who meets all requirements for program payments.
Ethanol
means anhydrous ethyl alcohol manufactured in the United States and its territories and sold either:
(1) For fuel use, rendered unfit for beverage use, produced at a facility and in a manner approved by ATF for the production of ethanol for fuel; or
(2) As denatured ethanol used by blenders and refiners and rendered unfit for beverage use.
Ethanol producer
means a person authorized by ATF to produce ethanol.
FSA
means the Farm Service Agency, USDA.
FY
means the fiscal year beginning each October 1 and ending September 30 of the following calendar year.
KCCO
means the FSA, Kansas City Commodity Office.
Posted County Price
means the same Posted County Price for different locations as is used under other CCC commodity programs for marketing loan gains and other matters.
Producer
is a legal entity (individual, partnership, cooperative, or corporation, etc.) who is a commercial bioenergy producer making application or otherwise involved under this program.
Quarter
means the respective time periods of October 1 through December
31, January 1 through March 31, April 1 through June 30, and July 1 through September 30 of each FY, as applicable.
Sign-up period
means the time period announced by CCC during which CCC will accept program agreements.
USDA
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
§ 1424.4
General eligibility rules.
(a) An applicant must be determined eligible by KCCO and be assigned an agreement number.
(b) To be eligible for program payments, a producer must maintain records indicating for all relevant FY's and FY quarters:
(1) The use of eligible commodities in bioenergy production;
(2) The quantity of bioenergy produced from an eligible commodity by location;
(3) The quantity of eligible commodity used by location to produce the bioenergy referred to in paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and
(4) All other records, needed, or required by the agreement to establish program eligibility and compliance.
(c) A producer must allow verification by CCC of all information provided. Refusal to allow CCC or any other agency of USDA to verify any information provided will result in a producer being determined not eligible.
(d) For producers not purchasing raw commodity inputs, the production must equal or exceed that amount of production that would be calculated using the raw commodity inputs and the conversion factor set out in § 1424.3. A producer that purchases soy oil from a soybean crushing plant for further refinement into biodiesel must be able to prove to CCC's satisfaction both soy oil purchases and biodiesel production for the applicable quarter. Any special conversion factors needed will be the province of CCC and CCC alone and CCC's decision will be final.
(e) A producer must meet all other conditions set out in these regulations, in the agreement, or in other program documents.
§ 1424.5
Agreement process.
(a) To participate, an eligible producer must submit a signed agreement during the FY sign-up period. Agreements may be for single or multiple FY's. However, multiple FY agreements require producers to submit annual production estimate reports during each applicable FY sign-up period. Such reports must comply with the terms of the agreement and this part. In all cases, the accounting for compliance will be made on a per FY basis.
(b) Sign-up each FY will be held for 30 calendar days beginning for:
(1) FY 2003 on the date of publication of this rule;
(2) FY 2004 and beyond on August 1 of the FY before the applicable FY.
(c) After agreements are submitted:
(1) If determined eligible by KCCO, an agreement number will be assigned, and a notification will be mailed to the producer;
(2) If additional information is needed for KCCO to determine eligibility, the producer will be contacted as soon as practicable and requested to provide additional supporting documentation;
(3) If determined ineligible by KCCO, producers will be notified in writing that their agreement was rejected and the reason for the determination.
§ 1424.6
Payment application process.
(a) To apply for payments under this program during an FY, an eligible producer must:
(1) Submit an application or eligibility report for each quarter. Submit the last quarterly application or report of the FY within 30 calendar days of the end of the FY for which payment is requested. If the actual deadline is a non-workday, the deadline will be the next business day;
(2) Certify with respect to the accuracy and truthfulness of the information provided;
(3) Furnish CCC such certification, and access to such records, as CCC considers necessary to verify compliance with program provisions; and
(4) Provide documentation as requested by CCC of both the producer's net purchases of eligible commodities and net production of bioenergy compared to such production at all locations during the relevant periods. CCC may adjust the formulaic payments otherwise payable to the producer if there is a difference between the amount actually used and certified and
the amount of increased commodity use calculated under the formula.
(b) After applications or reports are submitted, eligible producers:
(1) Shall submit such additional supporting documentation as requested by KCCO when additional information is needed to determine eligibility;
(2) Will be notified in writing of their ineligibility and reason for the determination, when the application is determined ineligible by KCCO; and
(3) Shall promptly refund payments when a refund to CCC is due. If a refund is not made promptly, CCC may establish a claim.
§ 1424.7
Gross payable units.
(a) For ethanol, producers will be eligible for payments on gross payable units for only their ethanol production from eligible inputs that exceeds, for the program year to date, their total comparable production at all locations as compared to the comparable portion of the previous year. Producers of ethanol are not eligible for base production payments. Producers shall not be paid twice for the same increase and any decline in relative production between quarters will require a comparable refund. For example, if at the end of the first quarter, a producer were to be paid for an increase of 500 gallons of ethanol, but at the end of the second quarter, that producer's year-to-date production was down to a net increase for the year of 450 gallons, then a refund would be due for the loss of the corresponding 50 gallons of net extra production. Repayment rates shall be based on previous payment rates. Unless otherwise determined by CCC, the extra ethanol production from eligible inputs will be converted to gross payable units by dividing the gallons of increased ethanol by the applicable conversion factor.
(b) Biodiesel producers will be eligible for payments on gross payable units for all biodiesel production from eligible inputs. For eligibility purposes there will be two kinds of payment: additional production payments (APP), and base production payments (BPP). Repayment rates shall be based on previous payment rates. Unless otherwise determined by CCC, gross payable units for biodiesel production from eligible inputs will be calculated as follows:
(1) For APP, by dividing the gallons of increased biodiesel by the biodiesel conversion factor of 1.4. APP payments will be made on increases as compared with the previous FY. Producers will not be paid twice for the same production. Failure to maintain year to date biodiesel production increases between quarters will require a comparable APP refund as specified below. That is, for example, if a producer were to be paid, at the end of the first quarter, for 500 gallons of increased biodiesel production, but by the end of the second quarter that producer's production, for the year to date, was only 450 gallons, then a refund of the APP premium would be due for the loss of the corresponding 50 gallons of net production increase.
(2) For BPP, which will be made on production not eligible for the APP, by dividing the base production by the biodiesel conversion factor of 1.4 and multiplying the result by 0.5 in FY 2003, 0.3 in FY 2004, 0.15 in FY 2005, or 0.0 (zero) in FY 2006 to determine base biodiesel production gross payable units.
(3) Adding the APP and BPP to determine biodiesel gross payable units.
(c) There shall only be one eligible producer per plant location.
(1) When producers move production from one plant to another between FY's, the prior FY's production for the producer for program payment calculations tied to increases in production shall be the greater of:
(i) The production at the plant operated by the producer in the prior FY, or
(ii) The production in the prior FY at the plant being taken over by the producer in the current FY.
(2) New producers who are taking over a plant with prior bioenergy production shall assume that production history for program purposes. For example: in FY 2002, Producer A produced 1,000 gallons of bioenergy in plant 1 and Producer B produced 500,000 of bioenergy in plant 2. In FY 2003, Producer A assumes operation of plant 2; Producer B moves to plant 3, which was not in the program in FY 2002, but with FY 2002 production of 400,000 gallons
from eligible commodities; and Producer C assumes operations of plant 1. In FY 2003, for program purposes solely based on these respective plants, Producer A would have a prior FY production of 500,000 gallons; Producer B would have a prior FY production of 500,000 gallons; and Producer C would have a prior FY production of 1,000 gallons. These examples would apply when a producer moves its entire operation from one plant to another. Otherwise, for purposes of computing whether a producer has increased production in the current year from the previous year, the determination will be made by comparing for the current year the producer's production figures from all locations in which the producer has an interest with, for the previous year, the sum of:
(i) Production at those locations by any person including, but not limited to, the producer, and
(ii) Additional production by the producer at any other location in that year.
(3) Also, as needed to avoid frustrating the goals of the program, the Executive Vice President of CCC may treat producers with common interests, common ownership, or common facilities or arrangements as the same producer.
§ 1424.8
Payment amounts.
(a) An eligible producer may be paid the amount specified in this section, subject to the availability of funds. Total available funds shall be as determined appropriate by CCC and shall not exceed $150 million in any of FY's 2003 through 2006.
(b) For agreements submitted during an FY sign-up, applicants must project increases in production. Based on expected commodity prices, using the formula set out in this section, submissions will be assigned an expected payment value. When the payment value of all timely submitted and validly executed agreements exceed available funding, CCC may, at its discretion, prorate payments to be made under such agreements based on total available funding.
(c) When the payment value of all timely submitted applications exceed available funding, CCC will prorate payments based on total available funding.
(d) Subject to this section and conditions in the agreement, a producer's payment eligibility shall be adjusted at the end of each quarter, and calculated as follows:
(1) Gross payable units, calculated and determined in accordance with § 1424.7, shall be converted to net payable units for producers whose annual bioenergy production is:
(i) Less than 65 million gallons, by dividing by 2.5;
(ii) Equal to or more than 65 million gallons, by dividing by 3.5;
(2) Net payable units calculated under paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall then be converted to a gross payment by multiplying net payable units by the per-unit value of the commodity as of the 10th business day before the start of the production quarter, determined as follows:
(i) For ethanol:
(A) For those agricultural commodities with an established Posted County Price, CCC will use the Posted County Price that CCC announces daily for the county in which the plant is located and applicable quality factors as CCC may establish.
(B) For agricultural commodities that CCC determines do not have Posted County Prices, CCC will use market data CCC determines to be appropriate for the applicable commodity.
(ii) For biodiesel made from:
(A) Soybeans or soy oil, CCC will use the Posted County Price for soybeans for the county where the plant is located.
(B) Eligible commodities other than soybeans or soy oil that have a corresponding oil or grease market price, CCC will first use the soybeans Posted County Price for Macon County, Illinois. Then, the applicable feedstock's oil or yellow grease (for animal fats and oils) market price, as determined by CCC, will be divided by the soy oil price published in the Agricultural Marketing Service's weekly “Soybean Crush Report” (Central Illinois (Decatur, Macon County, Illinois)) for the applicable date. The resulting percentage will be multiplied by the soybean gross payment to determine the producer's gross payment.
(C) Eligible commodities that do not have a corresponding oil or grease market price, in a manner as determined by CCC.
(3) The gross payment calculated under paragraph (d)(2) of this section shall be reduced to a net payment by multiplying the gross payment figure by the proration factor determined under paragraph (c) of this section.
(4) Subject to other provisions of this section, producers shall be paid the net current payment, if positive, determined for the quarter, subject to the requirements and refund provisions of this part.
(5) After the first quarter, adjustments shall be made based on changes in production. Refunds, when due, shall be due at the per unit values at which they were paid.
(6) For an FY, no producer may receive more than 5 percent of the available funding for this program.
(e) When the commodity's conversion factor has been established, that factor will, as practicable, be posted on the program's website.
(1) If the commodity's conversion factor is not determined when the sign-up is announced, the conversion factor will be provided in a letter to producers with accepted agreements to the extent practicable.
(2) After FY 2003, changes to established conversion factors shall be announced in a press release issued by CCC 90 calendar days before the applicable FY's sign-up, to the extent practicable.
§ 1424.9
Reports required.
Once an eligible producer has submitted a payment application, that producer shall file cumulative and per-plant information for each relevant bioenergy producing facility quarterly through the end of the applicable FY as specified by CCC or as otherwise needed to establish compliance with this part.
§ 1424.10
Succession and control of facilities and production.
A person who obtains a facility that is under contract under this part may request permission to succeed to the program agreement and CCC may grant such request if it is determined that permitting such succession would serve the purposes of the program. If appropriate, CCC may require the consent of the original party to such succession. Also, CCC may terminate a contract and demand full refund of payments made if a contracting party loses control of a facility whose increased production is the basis of a program payment or otherwise fails to retain the ability to assure that all program obligations and requirements will be met.
§ 1424.11
Maintenance and inspection of records.
For the purpose of verifying compliance with the requirements of this part, each eligible producer shall make available at one place at all reasonable times for examination by representatives of USDA, all books, papers, records, contracts, scale tickets, settlement sheets, invoices, written price quotations, or other documents related to the program that is within the control of such entity for not less than three years from the payment date.
§ 1424.12
Appeals.
(a) A participant subject to an adverse determination under this part may appeal by submitting a written request to: Deputy Administrator, Commodity Operations, Farm Service Agency, United States Department of Agriculture, STOP 0550, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, D.C. 20250-0550. The appeal must be delivered in writing to the Deputy Administrator or postmarked within 30 days after the date the Agency decision is mailed or otherwise provided to the participant. The Deputy Administrator may consider a late appeal if determined warranted by the circumstances.
(b) The regulations at 7 CFR part 11 apply to decisions made under this part.
(c) Producers who believe they have been adversely affected by a determination by the Agency must seek review with the Deputy Administrator before any other review may be requested within the Agency.
§ 1424.13
Misrepresentation and scheme or device.
(a) A producer shall be ineligible to receive payments under this program if CCC determines the producer:
(1) Adopted any scheme or device that tends to defeat the purpose of the program in this part;
(2) Made any fraudulent representation; or
(3) Misrepresented any fact affecting a program determination.
(b) Any funds disbursed pursuant to this part to a producer engaged in a misrepresentation, scheme, or device, or to any other person as a result of the bioenergy producer's actions, shall be refunded with interest together with such other sums as may become due, plus damages as may be determined by CCC.
(c) Any producer or person engaged in an act prohibited by this section and any producer or person receiving payment under this part shall be jointly and severally liable for any refund due under this part and for related charges.
(d) The remedies provided in this part shall be in addition to other civil, criminal, or administrative remedies that may apply.
(e) Late payment interest shall be assessed on all refunds in accordance with the provisions and rates prescribed in part 1403 of this chapter.
§ 1424.14
Offsets, assignments, interest and waivers.
(a) Any payment or portion thereof to any person shall be made without regard to questions of title under State law and without regard to any claim or lien against the bioenergy, or proceeds thereof, in favor of the owner or any other creditor except agencies of the U.S. Government. The regulations governing offsets and withholdings found in part 1403 of this chapter shall be applicable to agreement payments.
(b) Any producer entitled to any payment may assign any payments in accordance with regulations governing the assignment of payments found at part 1404 of this chapter.
(c) Interest charged by CCC under this part shall be at the rate of interest that the United States Treasury charges CCC for funds, as of the date CCC made such funds available. Such interest shall accrue from the date such payments were made available to the date of repayment or the date interest increases as determined in accordance with applicable regulations.
(d) CCC may waive the accrual of interest and/or damages if CCC determines that the cause of the erroneous determination was not due to any action of the bioenergy producer.
Pt. 1425

# PART 1425—COOPERATIVE MARKETING ASSOCIATIONS
Sec.
1425.1
Applicability.
1425.2
Administration.
1425.3
Definitions.
1425.4
Approval.
1425.5
Confidentiality.
1425.6
Approved CMA's.
1425.7
Suspension and termination of approval.
1425.8
Ownership and control.
1425.9
Open membership.
1425.10
Financial ratio requirement.
1425.11-1425.12
[Reserved]
1425.13
Uniform marketing agreement.
1425.14
Member business.
1425.15
Vested authority.
1425.16
Payment limitation and adjusted gross income provisions.
1425.17
Eligible commodity and pooling.
1425.18
Distribution of proceeds.
1425.19
Member cooperatives.
1425.20
[Reserved]
1425.21
Records required.
1425.22
Inspection and investigation.
1425.23
Reports.
1425.24
[Reserved]
1425.25
Appeals.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1441 and 1421, 7 U.S.C. 7931-7939; and 15 U.S.C. 714b, 714c, and 714j.

# Source:
63 FR 17312, Apr. 9, 1998, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1425.1
Applicability.
(a) This part specifies the terms and conditions an approved Cooperative Marketing Association (CMA) must meet to obtain marketing assistance loans (MALs) and loan deficiency payments (LDPs) from CCC on behalf of its members.
(b) A CMA meeting the requirements of this part may obtain MALs and LDPs for any eligible commodity for which a MAL and LDP program is in effect.
[80 FR 130, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1425.2
Administration.
(a) On behalf of the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC), the Farm Service Agency (FSA) will administer the provisions of this part under the general
direction and supervision of the Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs.
(b) In the field, the provisions of this part will be administered by the State and county FSA committees.
[80 FR 130, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1425.3
Definitions.
The definitions in this section are applicable for all purposes of program administration. The terms defined in parts 718 of this title and parts 1421 and 1427 of this chapter are also applicable, except where those definitions conflict with the definitions in this section.
Active member
is a member who has utilized the services offered by a CMA in one of the three preceding CMA fiscal years or such shorter period as may be provided in the CMA's articles of incorporation or bylaws.
Approved cooperative marketing association (CMA)
is a cooperative approved by CCC to participate in MAL and LDP programs for any authorized commodity.
Authorized commodity
is a commodity for which a CMA is approved by CCC to obtain MALs or LDPs.
Cooperative
is a business owned and controlled by the producers who use its services and operated under generally accepted cooperative principles.
Eligible commodity
is a commodity which meets the commodity's eligibility requirements set forth in chapter XIV of this title, and is produced and delivered to the CMA from a producer eligible for MALs or LDPs.
Loan deficiency payment (LDP)
means a payment made in lieu of a MAL when the CCC-determined value, which is based on the current local price in a county, is below the applicable county loan rate. The payment is the difference between the two rates times the eligible quantity.
Loan pool
is any CMA pool containing commodities used by the CMA to obtain either MALs or LDPs.
Market loan gain
is the loan rate, minus the repayment rate on loans repaid at a rate that is less than the loan rate. The total of all market loan gains received by a producer for an applicable crop year cannot exceed the producer's applicable payment limitation as specified in part 1400 of this chapter. A producer's adjusted gross income must also be below the limit as specified in part 1400 of this chapter to receive a market loan gain.
Member
is a producer who:
(a) Has fully paid for membership stock or earned equity credits in the CMA;
(b) Has executed a uniform marketing agreement with the CMA; and
(c) Is entitled to all CMA membership rights.
[63 FR 17312, Apr. 9, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 64458, Oct. 18, 2002; 80 FR 130, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1425.4
Approval.
(a) For a cooperative to be eligible to participate in the MAL and LDP Programs as an approved CMA, the cooperative must submit an application to CCC. The application must include:
(1) A completed Form CCC-846 indicating commodities for which it seeks approval;
(2) A current financial statement, dated within the last year, prepared for the cooperative and accompanied by a letter from an independent Certified Public Accountant, certifying that the financial statement was prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
(3) A copy of the articles of incorporation or articles of association and all marketing agreements for loan pools, together with a certification that this material is current;
(4) Resolutions made by the cooperative's board of directors stating the cooperative will abide by provisions of this part, the nondiscrimination provisions thereof, and all other related CCC policies;
(5) A detailed description of how proceeds from each loan pool will be distributed to members as provided for in § 1425.18;
(6) An executed form CCC-Cotton G, Cotton Cooperative Loan Agreement, by cooperatives applying for approval to participate in the cotton MAL and LDP program; and
(7) Other information as requested by CCC concerning the organizational, operational, financial or any other aspect of the cooperative requested by CCC related to the cooperative's proposed methods of conducting MAL and LDP business.
(b) A CMA must submit, on an annual basis, the following information to CCC:
(1) A completed Form CCC-846-1, which discloses:
(i) The number of active and inactive CMA members;
(ii) The CMA's allocated equity;
(iii) The CMA's unallocated equity; and
(iv) Quantity of each loan pool commodity delivered to the CMA for marketing and the portion of such commodities received from active members during the prior year.
(2) The CMA's latest financial statement. The financial statement must be dated within the past year and be accompanied by a letter from an independent Certified Public Accountant certifying that the financial statement was prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
(c) A CMA must furnish information to CCC within thirty calendar days relating to any:
(1) Change in its articles of incorporation and loan pool marketing agreements;
(2) Resolution affecting MAL or LDP operations;
(3) Change to the CMA's name, address, phone number, or related data shown on the CCC-846-1;
(4) Change in loan pool operations with an explanation and justification; and
(5) Additional information CCC may request related to the CMA's continued approval by CCC.
(d) CCC may require a CMA to submit a new initial application instead of a recertification application when it questions whether the CMA is operating according to documents previously submitted.
[63 FR 17312, Apr. 9, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 64458, Oct. 18, 2002; 80 FR 130, Jan. 2, 2015; 86 FR 70706, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1425.5
Confidentiality.
Information submitted to CCC related to trade secrets, financial or commercial operations, or the financial condition of a CMA, whether for initial approval or continued approval, shall be kept confidential by the officers, agents, and employees of CCC and the Department of Agriculture except as required to be disclosed by law.
§ 1425.6
Approved CMAs.
(a) CCC may approve a CMA to participate in the MAL and LDP program as:
(1) Unconditionally approved; or
(2) Conditionally approved.
(b) If CCC determines a CMA is in substantial but not total compliance with the requirements of this part, CCC may make the approval conditional on the CMA achieving full compliance within a reasonable period of time, as specified in the notification of conditional approval.
(c) A CMA is approved to participate in the MAL and LDP program until the CMA's approval is suspended or terminated by CCC.
[80 FR 130, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1425.7
Suspension and termination of approval.
(a) CCC may suspend a CMA from obtaining MALs and LDPs when CCC determines the CMA has violated any of its agreements with CCC or the CMA has not:
(1) Operated according to the CMA's application for approval or its last recertification submission;
(2) Complied with applicable regulations; or
(3) Corrected deficiencies of the CMA's operation as noted by CCC.
(b) A suspension may be lifted when CCC determines the CMA has complied with all requirements for approval. When suspensions are not lifted within 1 year, or a shorter time period if so indicated in CCC's suspension notification, the CMA's approval automatically terminates.
(c) CCC may terminate a CMA's approval by giving the CMA written notice of the termination.
(d) If a CMA does not have any MALs outstanding, it may voluntarily terminate its participation in the MAL and LDP program through written notice to CCC.
(e) CCC may, on demand, call all outstanding CCC loans made to a suspended or terminated CMA. When loans are called, CCC will provide at least 10 calendar days written notice to the
CMA. Commodities pledged as collateral for loans must be repaid by the date specified by CCC. If redemption is not made by the date specified, title to the commodity will vest in CCC and CCC will have no obligation to pay the commodity's market value above the principal amount of such loans.
[63 FR 17312, Apr. 9, 1998, as amended at 80 FR 130, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1425.8
Ownership and control.
(a) CMA's must be owned and controlled by active members of the CMA.
(b) The CMA must provide evidence that:
(1) Active members own more than 50 percent of its allocated equity; and
(2) A majority of directors are active members of the CMA or authorized representatives of active members.
(c) An applicant cooperative or a CMA, not under the ownership or control, of its active members, may be approved by CCC if it is able to establish that, by retiring the equity of its inactive members or by obtaining new members, it can vest ownership and control in its active members, as required by this section, by a date specified by CCC.
§ 1425.9
Open membership.
(a) The CMA must provide CCC documented proof that the CMA admits every membership applicant who is eligible under the statute regulating the CMA.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a CMA may refuse membership to an applicant whose admission would prejudice, hinder, or otherwise obstruct the interests or purposes of the CMA.
[63 FR 17312, Apr. 9, 1998, as amended at 80 FR 131, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1425.10
Financial ratio requirement.
To be financially able to make advances to their members and to market their commodities, CMA's must have a current ratio of at least 1 dollar of current assets for each 1 dollar of current liabilities (current ratio of 1:1 or better) on the balance sheet it submits to CCC with its initial application or annual recertification required in § 1425.4.
[63 FR 17312, Apr. 9, 1998, as amended at 80 FR 131, Jan. 2, 2015]
§§ 1425.11-1425.12
[Reserved]
§ 1425.13
Uniform marketing agreement.
(a) A CMA must enter into a uniform marketing agreement with each member who delivers a commodity to a loan pool.
(b) The identification number used by the member to report acreage on applicable farms to FSA must appear on the marketing agreement.
§ 1425.14
Member business.
(a) At least 50 percent of a crop of an authorized commodity acquired by, or delivered to, a CMA for marketing must be produced by its members for the CMA to obtain a MAL or LDP for such crop. CCC may, for a period not to exceed 2 years, waive this requirement if:
(1) The CMA can establish to CCC that such authorization is necessary for the efficient operation of the CMA; and
(2) The CMA's plan, approved by CCC, will bring the CMA into compliance with the provisions of this section.
(b) Commodities purchased or acquired from CCC and processed products acquired from other processors or merchandisers shall not be considered in determining the volume of member or nonmember business.
[63 FR 17312, Apr. 9, 1998, as amended at 80 FR 131, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1425.15
Vested authority.
The marketing agreement between the CMA and its members will give the CMA the authority to pledge the commodity as collateral for a loan, to place a lien on such commodity, and to market the commodity on behalf of its members even though the individual members retain the right, in effect, to determine the price at which the commodity can be marketed by the CMA.
[63 FR 17312, Apr. 9, 1998, as amended at 80 FR 131, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1425.16
Payment limitation and adjusted gross income provisions.
(a) CMAs must apply any market loan gains received on behalf of members to the loan pool for distribution. However, CMAs must also monitor market loan gains they receive from CCC on behalf of their members and must not obtain market loan gains for a member above the member's payment limitation determined as specified in part 1400 of this chapter.
(b) CMAs must monitor LDPs they receive from CCC on behalf of their members and not obtain LDPs for a member whose AGI is above the limit specified in part 1400 of this chapter.
[80 FR 131, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1425.17
Eligible commodity and pooling.
(a) A CMA may establish separate loan pools as needed for quantities of a commodity.
(b) Loans and, if applicable, LDP's will be available to CMA's for any eligible commodity in a loan pool as provided in paragraph (e) of this section and the beneficial interest provisions of parts 1421 and 1427 of this chapter.
(c) A loan pool is eligible for MALs and LDPs if:
(1) All of the commodity in the loan pool is eligible for MALs or LDPs, except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section;
(2) The commodity was delivered by members to the CMA for their benefit;
(3) The commodity was delivered and the members are eligible for MALs and LDPs;
(4) Members retain the right to share in marketing proceeds from the commodity in accordance with § 1425.18; and
(5) Members agreed to accept a payment of initial advances from the CMA in accordance with § 1425.18(a).
(6) Members agree to refund to the CMA, if requested by the CMA, any denied market loan gain or LDP benefit realized when the proceeds from the loan pool are distributed to the CMA members.
(d) Ineligible commodities may be included in eligible pools when:
(1) The CMA inadvertently included ineligible quantities based on grade, quality, bale weight or repacking in the case of cotton, or other factors; or
(2) There are eligibility discrepancies within FSA records, the producer has certified to the CMA that the commodity is eligible for a MAL, and there is no market gain or LDP involved in the loan pool for the crop year.
(e) A CMA may include a commodity in a pool that is ineligible based on FSA records if the producer has certified to the CMA the commodity is eligible. (For example, an otherwise eligible commodity that is not reflected on a timely filed FSA acreage report.) CCC will specify a time period during which CMAs may obtain MALs or LDPs on the applicable quantity while the eligibility status is resolved. If the final resolution is that the commodity was ineligible, the CMA must repay any MALs outstanding with principal plus interest and any market loan gains obtained plus interest from the date of receiving the market loan gain through the repayment date.
(f) The CMA must have in inventory a quantity of commodity delivered by members of each class and grade at least equal to the quantity each class and grade pledged as MAL collateral.
(g) MALs will be available to the CMA for the quantity of a farm-stored commodity that is, pursuant to such CMA marketing agreement with a member, part of the CMA's loan pool.
(h) A CMA must have identity-preserved loan pool commodities stored in approved warehouses while the commodities are pledged as collateral for MAL.
(i) Comingled commodities with MAL eligibility stored on a farm or in a warehouse may be transferred to an authorized warehouse.
(j) Commodities pledged as collateral for MALs must be free and clear of all liens and encumbrances based on a CMA's financial agreements or the CMA must obtain and complete a lien waiver form. When liens are applicable based on CMA financial agreements, the CMA must provide CCC the completed lien waiver form. CMAs must not take any action to cause a lien or encumbrance to be placed on a commodity after a MAL is approved.
(k) If a MAL or LDP is obtained for any quantity in a loan pool, allocations of costs and expenses among separate pools for the commodity in the pool
will be made according to generally accepted accounting principles.
(l) A CMA must not apply marketing losses from a commodity not used to obtain a MAL or LDP against the marketing proceeds of a commodity used to obtain a MAL or LDP.
(m) CMAs will not carry forward losses from one loan pool and apply them against a subsequent loan pool without CCC's authorization. CCC may grant authorization when it determines that carrying forward the loss complies with the MAL or LDP Program intent.
(n) The CMA is responsible to CCC for any loss related to commodities the CMA pledged as collateral for MAL or used to obtain LDP related to:
(1) The CMA failing to comply with these regulations;
(2) Changes in quantity or quality of either warehouse or farm stored commodities; or
(3) Liens based on either the CMA's or its members' financial agreements.
(o) Denied market loan gain or denied LDP benefits will be based on payment limitation attribution as specified in part 1400 of this chapter, and must be repaid to CCC by the CMA receiving the MAL or LDP proceeds.
[63 FR 17312, Apr. 9, 1998, as amended at 80 FR 131, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1425.18
Distribution of proceeds.
(a)(1) If CCC makes loans or LDP's for any quantity in a loan pool, the related proceeds must be distributed or otherwise made available to the members account:
(i) Based on the quantity and quality of the commodity delivered by each member;
(ii) Less any authorized charges for services performed or paid by the CMA necessary to condition or otherwise make the commodity eligible for MALs or LDPs, according to the marketing agreement provided for in § 1425.13;
(iii) Within 15 work days from the date the CMA receives MAL or LDP proceeds from CCC, or held according to the terms of a deferred payment agreement if requested by the member.
(2) CMA's may credit advances to its members made before loans and LDP's are obtained against the distribution of MAL and LDP proceeds requirement in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section.
(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, loan pool proceeds must not be combined with non-loan pool proceeds and the CMA must distribute loan pool proceeds according to the information it provided CCC in accordance with § 1425.4(a)(5).
(2) Sales proceeds from a loan pool may be combined with sales proceeds from other pools if the proceeds from such pools are allocated among the pools according to the quantity and quality of the commodity included in the pools.
(3) MAL and LDP proceeds shall only be issued to members involved in pools used for MALs or LDP's.
(4) When notified by CCC that MAL and LDP distributions to a member are required to be reduced for a program year, farm, or crop, a CMA must not make subsequent pool distributions and must reimburse CCC for distributions previously issued, if applicable.
(c) CMAs must apply market loan gains to the payment limit that is earned on date of redemption for their members when the CMA distributes the pool funds.
[63 FR 17312, Apr. 9, 1998, as amended at 71 FR 42750, July 28, 2006; 80 FR 131, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1425.19
Member cooperatives.
(a) A CMA may obtain MALs or LDPs on behalf of a member cooperative when the member cooperative is itself a CMA operating in accordance with this part. For example, a cooperative of producers may be a member of a CMA that markets a commodity.
(b) If the CMA is approved according to § 1425.6, and otherwise meets all the requirements of this part, the MALs and LDPs submitted by members of that CMA will be eligible.
[80 FR 131, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1425.20
[Reserved]
§ 1425.21
Records required.
(a) A CMA shall maintain records for each MAL or LDP commodity showing the quantity:
(1) Received from each member and nonmember;
(2) Eligible for MALs and LDPs;
(3) By quality factors specified in the applicable commodity regulations including class, grade, and quality, where applicable; and
(4) Of unprocessed inventory broken down by items 1 through 3 above.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, inventory must be allocated in the following manner until all inventory in a loan pool is depleted:
(1) For processed commodities, the pool's inventory must be adjusted when the commodity is withdrawn from inventory for processing; and
(2) For commodities that are not processed, the pool's inventory must be allocated to the pool and the pool's inventories adjusted when the commodity is shipped.
(c) Records of loan and non-loan pool dispositions do not have to be maintained separately when sales proceeds from pools are allocated according to the quantity and quality of commodity in the pools.
[63 FR 17312, Apr. 9, 1998, as amended at 80 FR 132, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1425.22
Inspection and investigation.
(a) The books, documents, papers, and records of the CMA and subsidiaries must be maintained for five years after the applicable crop year and must be available to CCC for inspection and examination at all reasonable times.
(b) At any time after an application is received, CCC has the right to examine all books, documents, papers, and determine whether the CMA is operating or has operated in accordance with the regulations in this part, its articles of incorporation or articles association, and agreements with producers, the representations made by the CMA in its application for approval, and, where applicable, its agreements with CCC.
(c) CCC reserves the right to determine examinations of CMAs based on:
(1) A 3-year rotation; or
(2) The previous crop year MAL or LDP activity if market loan gain and LDP activity increases substantially.
[63 FR 17312, Apr. 9, 1998, as amended at 80 FR 132, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1425.23
Reports.
(a) CMA's must annually provide CCC a report of all commodity deliveries involved in loans and LDP's by FSA farm number for each member.
(b) When requested by CCC, CMA's must report market gains received on behalf of each member.
[63 FR 17312, Apr. 9, 1998, as amended at 80 FR 132, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1425.24
[Reserved]
§ 1425.25
Appeals.
Parts 11 and 780 of this title apply to this part.
[67 FR 64459, Oct. 18, 2002]
Pt. 1427

# PART 1427—COTTON

# Subpart A—Nonrecourse Cotton Loans and Loan Deficiency Payments
Sec.
1427.1
Applicability.
1427.2
Administration.
1427.3
Definitions.
1427.4
Eligible producer.
1427.5
General eligibility requirements.
1427.6
Disbursement of MALs.
1427.7
Maturity of MALs.
1427.8
Amount of MALs.
1427.9
Classification of cotton.
1427.10
Approved storage.
1427.11
Warehouse receipts.
1427.12
Liens.
1427.13
Fees, charges and interest.
1427.14
[Reserved]
1427.15
Special procedure where funds are advanced.
1427.16
Movement and protection of warehouse-stored cotton.
1427.17
[Reserved]
1427.18
Liability of the producer.
1427.19
Repayment of MALs.
1427.20
Handling payments of $9.99 or less and collections not exceeding $24.99.
1427.21
Settlement.
1427.22
Commodity certificate exchanges.
1427.23
Cotton LDPs.
1427.24
[Reserved]
1427.25
Determination of the prevailing world market price and the adjusted world price for upland cotton.
Subparts B-C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Recourse Seed Cotton Loans
1427.160
Applicability.
1427.161
Administration.
1427.162
[Reserved]
1427.163
Disbursement of loans.
1427.164
Eligible producer.
1427.165
Eligible seed cotton.
1427.166
Insurance.
1427.167
Liens.
1427.168
[Reserved]
1427.169
Fees, charges, and interest.
1427.170
Quantity for loan.
1427.171
Approved storage.
1427.172
Settlement.
1427.173
Foreclosure.
1427.174
Maturity of seed cotton loans.
1427.175
Liability of the producer.

# Subpart E—Standards for Approval of Warehouses for Cotton and Cotton Linters
1427.1081
General statement and administration.
1427.1082
Basic standards.
1427.1083
Bonding requirements for net worth.
1427.1084
Examination of warehouses.
1427.1085
Exceptions.
1427.1086
Approval of warehouse, requests for reconsideration.
1427.1087
Exemption from requirements.
1427.1088
Contract fees.
1427.1089
[Reserved]
Subpart F [Reserved]

# Subpart G—Extra Long Staple (ELS) Cotton Competitiveness Payment Program
1427.1200
Applicability.
1427.1201
[Reserved]
1427.1202
Definitions.
1427.1203
Eligible ELS cotton.
1427.1204
Eligible domestic users and exporters.
1427.1205
ELS Cotton Domestic User/Exporter Agreement.
1427.1206
[Reserved]
1427.1207
Payment rate.
1427.1208
Payment.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7231-7237, 7931-7936, 9011, and 9031-40, 15 U.S.C. 714b and c.

# Subpart A—Nonrecourse Cotton Loan and Loan Deficiency Payments

# Source:
67 FR 64459, Oct. 18, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1427.1
Applicability.
(a) The regulations in this subpart are applicable to crops of upland cotton and extra long staple cotton. This part specifies the general provisions under which the Marketing Assistance Loans (MAL) and Loan Deficiency Payment (LDP) Programs will be administered by the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC). Eligibility to receive MALs and LDPs is subject to additional terms and conditions that are in the MAL note and security agreement and the LDP application. The provisions in this part apply to the 2014 and subsequent crops.
(b) The basic loan rate, the schedule of premiums and discounts, and forms applicable to the cotton MAL and LDP Programs are available from FSA offices. The forms for use in connection with the programs in this subpart will be prescribed by CCC.
(c) MALs and LDPs will not be available for any cotton produced on land owned or otherwise in the possession of the United States if such land is occupied without the consent of the United States.
(d) Average adjusted income (AGI) and payment limitation provisions specified in part 1400 of this chapter are applicable to MALs and LDPs.
[67 FR 64459, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 65719, Nov. 5, 2008; 80 FR 132, Jan. 2, 2015; 86 FR 70706, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1427.2
Administration.
(a) The MAL and LDP Programs will be administered under the general supervision of the Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee and will be carried out by FSA employees, and state and county committees.
(b) No FSA employee or committee may modify or waive any requirement in this subpart, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.
(c) The State committee will take any required action not taken by the county committee. The State committee will also:
(1) Correct, or require a correction of an action that is not in compliance with this part; or
(2) Stop an employee from taking an action or decision that is not in accordance with the regulations of this part.
(d) The Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee may determine any question arising under these programs, and reverse or modify a determination made by an FSA employee or State or county committee.
(e) The Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, FSA, may authorize State or county committees to waive or modify deadlines and other program
requirements in cases where lateness or failure to meet such other program requirements does not adversely affect the operation of the MAL and LDP Programs.
(f) A representative of CCC may execute MAL and LDP applications and related documents only under the terms and conditions determined and announced by CCC. Any document not executed under such terms and conditions, including any purported execution before the date authorized by CCC, shall be null and void.
[67 FR 64459, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 65719, Nov. 5, 2008; 80 FR 132, 139, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.3
Definitions.
The definitions in this section apply for all purposes of program administration regarding the cotton loan and LDP programs. The terms defined in part 718 of this title and parts 1412, 1421, 1423, 1425, and 1434 of this chapter also apply, except where they conflict with definitions in this section.
Adjusted spot price
means the spot price adjusted to reflect any lack of data for base quality to make the adjusted spot price comparable to a spot price assuming the base quality. If base quality spot price data are not available, spot prices for other qualities will be used and adjusted by the average difference between base quality spot prices and those for other qualities over the available observations during the previous 12 months.
Bale opening
means the removal of the bagging and ties from a bale of eligible upland cotton in the normal opening area, immediately before use, by a manufacturer in a building or collection of buildings where the cotton in the bale will be used in the continuous process of manufacturing raw cotton into cotton products in the United States.
Charges
means all fees, costs, and expenses incurred by CCC in insuring, carrying, handling, storing, conditioning, and marketing the cotton tendered to CCC for loan. Charges also include any other expenses incurred by CCC in protecting CCC's or the producer's interest in such cotton.
Classification
means the measurement results provided by the Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) of color grade, leaf, staple, strength, extraneous matter and micronaire, and for upland cotton, length uniformity.
Commodity certificate exchange
means the exchange of commodities pledged as collateral for a marketing assistance loan at a rate determined by CCC in the form of a commodity certificate bearing a dollar denomination.
Commodity loan gain
means the difference between the loan principal amount and the adjusted world price (AWP)-value of a commodity certificate used to exchange the loan collateral.
Consumption
means the use of eligible cotton by a domestic user in the manufacture in the United States of cotton products.
Cooperative marketing association (CMA)
means a cooperative marketing association, approved as specified in part 1425 of this chapter, that has executed a Cotton Cooperative Loan Agreement.
Cotton
means upland cotton and extra loan staple cotton meeting the definition in the definitions of “upland cotton” and “extra long staple (ELS) cotton” in this section, respectively, and excludes cotton not meeting such definitions.
Cotton clerk
means a person approved by CCC to assist producers in preparing loan and loan deficiency documents.
Cotton commercial bank
means the bank designated as the financial institution for a CMA or loan servicing agent.
Cotton product
means any product containing cotton fibers that result from the use of a bale of cotton in manufacturing.
Cotton storage deficit area
means a State, County, or group of contiguous counties within a State, where the production of cotton for the area based on the most recent estimate from the USDA, National Agricultural Statistics Service exceeds the combined approved inside storage capacity less carry-in stocks, of warehouses that have entered into a Cotton Storage Agreement with CCC.
Current Far East shipment price
means, during the period in which two daily price quotations are available for
the growth quoted for M 1
3/32
inch cotton, CFR (cost and freight) Far East, the price quotation for cotton for shipment no later than August/September of the current calendar year.
Electronic Agent Designation
is an electronic record that:
(1) Designates the entity authorized by a producer to redeem all of the cotton pledged as collateral for a specific loan;
(2) Is maintained by providers of electronic warehouse receipts; and
(3) A producer may authorize CCC to use as the basis for the redemption and release of loan collateral.
Exchange rate
will be the effective AWP for cotton on the date the request to purchase a certificate is received by CCC.
Extra long staple (ELS) cotton
means any of the following varieties of cotton which is produced in the United States and is ginned on a roller gin:
(1) American-Pima;
(2) All other varieties of the Barbadense species of cotton, and any hybrid thereof; and
(3) Any other variety of cotton in which one or more of these varieties predominate.
False packed cotton
means cotton in a bale containing substances entirely foreign to cotton; containing damaged cotton in the interior with or without any indication of the damage on the exterior; composed of good cotton on the exterior and decidedly inferior cotton in the interior, but not detectable by customary examination; or, containing pickings or linters worked into the bale.
Financial institution
means:
(1) A bank in the United States which accepts demand deposits; and
(2) An association organized pursuant to Federal or State law and supervised by Federal or State banking authorities.
Form A loan
means a nonrecourse loan entered into between a producer and CCC.
Form G loan
means a CCC nonrecourse loan entered into between a CMA and CCC.
Good condition
means a bale of cotton that, by comparison with the photographic standards of “A Guide for Cotton Bale Standards” of the Joint Cotton Industry Bale Packaging Committee, is determined to be a Grade A or Grade B bale.
Lint Cotton
means cotton that has passed through the ginning process.
Loan deficiency payment (LDP)
means a payment made in lieu of a MAL when the CCC-determined value, which is based on the current local price in a county, is below the applicable county loan rate. The payment is the difference between the two rates times the eligible quantity.
Loan rate
is the national loan rate for base quality upland cotton and the national average rate for ELS cotton adjusted by any premiums and discounts determined by CCC.
Loan servicing agent
means a legal entity that enters into a written agreement with CCC to act as a loan servicing agent for CCC in making and servicing Form A cotton loans. The loan servicing agent may perform, on behalf of CCC, only those services which are specifically prescribed by CCC including, but not limited to, the following:
(1) Preparing and executing loan and LDP documents;
(2) Disbursing loan and LDP proceeds;
(3) Accepting loan repayments;
(4) Handling documents involved with forfeiture of loan collateral to CCC; and
(5) Providing loan, LDP, and accounting data to CCC for statistical purposes.
Market loan gain
means the loan rate, minus the repayment rate on upland cotton loans repaid at the AWP-value that is less than the loan rate. A producer's adjusted gross income must be below the limit as specified in part 1400 of this chapter to receive a market loan gain.
Transfer
means, depending on the context, the process for a producer or an authorized agent of the producer to:
(1) Physically relocate cotton loan collateral from one CCC-approved warehouse to another CCC-approved warehouse,
(2) Exchange an electronic warehouse receipt for a receipt certificated by a warehouse for delivery under a futures contract without physically relocating the cotton, or
(3) Do both of the above.
Turn-around loan
is a special designation for a loan that is requested, approved for disbursement, and immediately exchanged with a commodity certificate purchased the same day.
Upland cotton
means planted and stub cotton which is produced in the United States from other than pure strain varieties of the Barbadense species, any hybrid thereof, or any other variety of cotton in which one or more of these varieties predominate.
Warehouse receipt
means a receipt containing the required information specified in this part that may or may not be certificated for delivery for a futures-pricing contract, and is an electronic warehouse receipt record issued by such warehouse recorded in a central filing system or systems maintained in one or more locations that are approved by FSA to operate such system.
Wet cotton
means a bale of cotton that, at a gin, has 7.5 percent or more moisture, wet basis, at any point in the bale.
[67 FR 64459, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 51427, Aug. 30, 2006; 73 FR 30275, May 27, 2008; 73 FR 65719, Nov. 5, 2008;75 FR 50849, Aug. 18, 2010; 80 FR 132, 139, Jan. 2, 2015; 86 FR 70706, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1427.4
Eligible producer.
(a) To be an eligible producer, the producer must:
(1) Be an individual, partnership, association, corporation, estate, trust, or other legal entity that produces cotton as a landowner, landlord, tenant, or sharecropper;
(2) Comply with all provisions of this part; and
(i) 7 CFR part 12—Highly Erodible Land and Wetland Conservation:
(ii) 7 CFR part 718—Provisions Applicable to Multiple Programs;
(iii) 7 CFR part 1400, subpart F—Average Adjusted Gross Income Limitation;
(iv) 7 CFR part 1403—Debt Settlement Policies and Procedures; and
(v) 7 CFR part 1405—Loans, Purchases and Other Operations; and
(3) Have made an acreage certification with respect to all the cropland on the farm.
(b) A receiver or trustee of an insolvent or bankrupt debtor's estate, an executor or an administrator of a deceased person's estate, a guardian of an estate of a ward or an incompetent person, and trustees of a trust estate is considered to represent the insolvent or bankrupt debtor, the deceased person, the ward or incompetent, and the beneficiaries of a trust, respectively. The production of the receiver, executor, administrator, guardian, or trustee is considered to be the production of the person or estate represented by the receiver, executor, administrator, guardian, or trust. Loan and loan deficiency payment documents executed by any such person will be accepted by CCC only if they are legally valid and such person has the authority to sign the applicable documents.
(c) A minor who is otherwise an eligible producer shall be eligible to receive loans and loan deficiency payments only if the minor meets one of the following requirements:
(1) The right of majority has been conferred on the minor by court proceedings or by statute;
(2) A guardian has been appointed to manage the minor's property and the applicable loan or LDP documents are signed by the guardian;
(3) Any note and security agreement or LDP application signed by the minor is co-signed by a person determined by CCC to be financially responsible; or
(4) A bond is furnished under which a surety guarantees to protect CCC from any loss incurred for which the minor would be liable had the minor been an adult.
(d)(1) If more than one producer executes a note and security agreement with CCC, each such producer is jointly and severally liable for the violation of the terms and conditions of the note and the regulations in this part. Each such producer also remains liable for repayment of the entire MAL amount until the MAL is fully repaid without regard to such producer's claimed share in the commodity pledged as collateral for the MAL. In addition, such producer may not amend the note and security agreement with respect to the
producer's claimed share in such commodities, or loan proceeds, after execution of the note and security agreement by CCC.
(2) The cotton in a bale may have been produced by two or more eligible producers on one or more farms if the bale is not a repacked bale.
(e) A CMA may obtain MALs and LDPs on eligible cotton on behalf of its members who are eligible to receive loans or LDPs for a crop of cotton. For purposes of this subpart, the term “producer” includes a CMA.
(f) In case of death, incompetency, or disappearance of any producer who is entitled to the payment of any sum in settlement of a MAL or LDP, payment will, upon application to CCC, be made to the person(s) who would be entitled to the producer's payment under the regulations in part 707 of this title.
(g) Adjusted gross income (AGI) provisions specified in part 1400 of this chapter apply to producer eligibility for MALs and LDPs.
[67 FR 64459, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 65719, Nov. 5, 2008; 80 FR 132, 139, Jan. 2, 2015; 86 FR 70706, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1427.5
General eligibility requirements.
(a) To receive loans or LDPs for a crop of cotton, a producer must execute a note and security agreement or LDP application on or before May 31 of the year following the year in which such crop is normally harvested.
(1) Form A loan documents or LDP applications must be signed by the applicant and submitted to CCC or a loan servicing agent. Submissions by cotton clerks must occur within 15 calendar days after the producer signs the forms and within the period of loan availability. A producer, except for a CMA, must request loans and LDPs:
(i) At the FSA county office that is responsible under part 718 of this title for administering programs for the farm on which the cotton was produced; or
(ii) From a loan servicing agent.
(2) Form G loan documents and requests for LDPs by a CMA must be signed by the CMA and delivered to CCC or the cotton commercial bank within the period of loan availability.
(b) For a bale of cotton to be eligible to be pledged as collateral for a MAL or a subject of an LDP application, the bale must:
(1) Be tendered to CCC by an eligible producer;
(2) Be in existence and good condition and be covered by fire insurance. Bales pledged as collateral for a CCC loan, must be stored inside an approved storage warehouse unless, as determined under § 1427.10, CCC has approved the warehouse to use outside storage for cotton loan collateral for the period of the loan. Bales submitted to CCC for an LDP are not subject to the approved storage requirements contained in § 1423.10.
(3) Be represented by a warehouse receipt meeting the requirements of § 1427.11, except as provided in §§ 1427.10(e) and 1427.23(a)(4);
(4) Not be false-packed, wet cotton, water-packed, mixed-packed, re-ginned, or repacked;
(5) Not be compressed to universal density at a warehouse where side pressure has been applied and not be a flat or modified flat bale;
(6) Not have been sold, nor any sales option on such cotton granted, to a buyer under a contract which provides that the buyer may direct the producer to pledge the cotton to CCC as collateral for a loan or to obtain an LDP ;
(7) Not have been previously sold and repurchased or pledged as collateral for a CCC loan and redeemed except as provided in § 1427.172(b)(4);
(8) Not be cotton for which an LDP has been previously made;
(9) Weigh at least 325 pounds net weight; bales of more than 600 pounds net weight may be pledged for loan at 600 pounds net weight.
(10) Be packaged in materials that meet the specifications adopted by the Joint Cotton Industry Bale Packaging Committee sponsored by the National Cotton Council of America for the applicable year or that are identified and approved by the Joint Industry Bale Packaging Committee as experimental packaging materials for the applicable crop year, except that producers approved for the outside storage of ELS cotton as provided for in § 1427.10(e) must assure that the packaging materials used for bales stored outside must
meet the materials, sealing, and humidity specifications contained in the outside-storage addendum to their ELS cotton MAL agreement.
(11) Be ginned by a ginner that:
(i) Has entered the tare weight of the bale (bagging and ties used to wrap the bale) on the gin bale tag or otherwise furnish warehouse operator the tare weight; and
(ii) Has entered into a Cooperating Ginners' Bagging and Bale Ties Certification and Agreement on a form prescribed by CCC, or certified that the bale is wrapped with bagging and bale ties meeting the requirements of paragraph (b)(10) of this section and;
(12) Be production from acreage that has been reported timely under part 718 of this title.
(c) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, for ELS cotton the bale must:
(1) Be of a grade, strength, staple length, and other factors specified in the schedule of loan rates for ELS cotton;
(2) Have a micronaire specified in the schedule of micronaire premiums and discounts for ELS cotton; and
(3) Have an extraneous matter specified in the schedules of premiums and discounts for extraneous matter for ELS cotton.
(d) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, for upland cotton the bale must:
(1) Have been graded by using a High Volume Instrument;
(2) Be a grade, staple length, and leaf specified in the schedule of premiums and discounts for grade, staple, and leaf for upland cotton;
(3) Have a strength reading specified in the schedule of strength premiums and discounts for upland cotton;
(4) Have a micronaire specified in the schedule of micronaire premiums and discounts for upland cotton;
(5) Have an extraneous matter within the limits specified in the schedule of discounts for extraneous matter for upland cotton; and
(6) Have a uniformity specified in the schedule of uniformity premiums and discounts for upland cotton.
(e) To be eligible to receive MALs and LDPs, a producer must have beneficial interest in the cotton that is tendered to CCC for a MAL or LDP. For the purposes of this part, the term “beneficial interest” refers to a determination by CCC that a person has the requisite title to and control of cotton that is tendered to CCC as collateral for a MAL or is the cotton that will be used to determine an LDP. A determination of whether a person has beneficial interest in cotton is made by CCC in accordance with this part and is not based upon a determination under any State law or any other regulation of a Federal agency.
(f) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, when requesting a MAL, in order to have beneficial interest in the cotton tendered as collateral for the loan, a person must:
(1) Be the producer of the cotton as determined in accordance with § 1427.4;
(2) Have had ownership of the cotton from the time it was planted through the earlier the date the loan was repaid or the maturity date of the loan;
(3) Have control of the cotton from the time of planting through the maturity date of the loan. To have control of the cotton, such person must have complete decision making authority regarding whether the cotton will be tendered as collateral for a loan, when the loan will be repaid or if the collateral will be forfeited to CCC in satisfaction of the loan obligations of such person, and where the cotton will be maintained during the term of the loan; and
(g) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, when requesting an LDP, in order to have beneficial interest in the cotton a person must:
(1) Be the producer of the cotton as determined in accordance with § 1427.4;
(2) Have had ownership of the cotton from the time it was planted through the date the producer has elected to determine the LDP rate; and
(3) Have control of the cotton from the time of planting through the date the producer has elected to determine the LDP rate. To have control of the cotton, such person must have complete decision making authority regarding whether an LDP will be requested with respect to the cotton; when the loan deficiency rate will be selected; and where the cotton will be maintained prior to the date on which the LDP rate will be determined;
(4) If the cotton has been physically delivered to a location other than a location owned or under the total control of the producer, have delivered the cotton to a warehouse approved in accordance with § 1427.10. Delivery of the cotton to a location other than to such an approved warehouse will result in the loss of beneficial interest in the cotton on the date of physical delivery and the producer will be considered to have lost beneficial interest as of 11:59 p.m. of such day regardless of any other action or agreement between the entity where the cotton was delivered and the producer, unless such an entity has been approved by CCC under § 1427.10.
(h) Notwithstanding paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, in order to facilitate the handling of situations involving the death of a producer, CCC will consider an estate and a person to whom title to cotton has passed by virtue of State law upon the death of the producer to have beneficial interest in the cotton produced by the producer under the same terms and conditions that would otherwise be applicable to such producer;
(i) Notwithstanding paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, a person who purchases or otherwise acquires cotton from a producer under any circumstances does not obtain beneficial interest to the cotton whether such purchase or acquisition is made prior to the harvest of the crop or after harvest except in one instance. CCC will consider a person to have beneficial interest in cotton if, prior to harvest, such person has obtained title to the growing cotton at the same time that such person obtained full title to the land on which such crop was growing;
(j) A producer will lose beneficial interest in cotton if the producer receives any payment from any person under any contractual arrangement with respect to cotton if the person who is making the payment, or any person otherwise associated with the person making the payment, will at any time have title to the cotton or control of the cotton prior to or after harvest unless:
(1) Such payment is authorized in accordance with part 1425 of this chapter; or
(2) The payment is made as consideration for an option to purchase the cotton and such option contains the following provision:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this option to purchase or any other contract, title and control of the cotton and beneficial interest in the cotton as specified in 7 CFR 1427.5 will remain with the producer until the buyer exercises this option to purchase the cotton. This option to purchase will expire, notwithstanding any action or inaction by either the producer or the buyer, at the earlier of:
(1) The maturity of any Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) loan that is secured by such cotton;
(2) The date CCC claims title to such cotton; or
(3) Such other date as provided in this option.
(k) Absent other provisions causing the producer to lose beneficial interest in the cotton, inclusion in a contract of a provision that allows the producer to select the sales price of the cotton at the time the contract is entered into or at a later date, a contract normally referred to as a deferred price contract or a price later contract, will not result in the loss of beneficial interest in the cotton.
(l) Commodities produced under a contract in which the title to the seed remains with the entity providing the seed to the producer, including contracts for the production of hybrid seed, genetically modified commodities, and other specialty seeds as approved in writing by CCC, are eligible to be pledged as collateral for a MAL and an LDP may be made with respect to such production if at the time of the request for such a loan or payment the producer has not:
(1) Received a payment under the contract; or
(2) Delivered the commodity to another person.
(m) Each bale of upland cotton sampled by the warehouse operator upon initial receipt which has not been sampled by the ginner must not show more than one sample hole on each side of the bale. If more than one sample is desired when the bale is received by the warehouse operator, the sample will be
cut across the width of the bale, broken in half or split lengthwise, and otherwise drawn under Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) dimension and weight requirements. This requirement will not prohibit sampling of the cotton at a later date if authorized by the producer.
(n) If MALs or LDPs are made available to producers through a CMA under part 1425 of this chapter, the beneficial interest in the cotton must always have been held by the producer-member who delivered the cotton to the CMA or its member, except as otherwise provided in this section. Cotton delivered to such a CMA will not be eligible to receive a MAL or an LDP if the producer-member who delivered the cotton does not retain the right to share in the proceeds from the marketing of the cotton as provided in part 1425 of this chapter.
[67 FR 64459, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 49328, Aug. 18, 2003; 69 FR 12056, Mar. 15, 2004; 71 FR 32426, June 6, 2006; 71 FR 51427, Aug. 30, 2006; 71 FR 60413, Oct. 13, 2006; 73 FR 65719, Nov. 5, 2008; 80 FR 133, 139, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.6
Disbursement of MALs.
(a) Individual producers may request loans from:
(1) FSA County Service Centers;
(2) Loan servicing agents; or
(3) An approved cotton clerk who has entered into a written agreement with CCC on a form prescribed by CCC.
(b) Loan proceeds may be disbursed by CCC or a cotton commercial bank.
(c) The loan documents will not be presented for disbursement unless the cotton covered by the mortgage or pledged as security is eligible under § 1427.5. If the cotton was not eligible cotton at the time of disbursement, the total amount disbursed under the loan, and charges plus interest will be refunded promptly.
[67 FR 64459, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 65720, Nov. 5, 2008; 80 FR 139, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.7
Maturity of MALs.
(a)(1) Form A loans and Form G loans mature on demand by CCC and no later than the last day of the 9th calendar month following the month in which the note and security agreement is approved as specified in § 1427.5(a).
(2) CCC may at any time accelerate the loan maturity date by providing the producer notice of such acceleration at least 30 days in advance of the accelerated maturity date.
(b) If the loan is not repaid by the loan maturity date, title to the cotton will vest in CCC the day after such maturity date and CCC will have no obligation to pay for any market value which such cotton may have in excess of the amount of the loan, plus interest and charges.
(c) Following written notice by CCC to the producer and warehouse operator, CCC may advance the maturity date of cotton pledged as collateral for a MAL if:
(1) CCC determines such loan cotton collateral is improperly warehoused and subject to damage,
(2) Any term of the producer's loan agreement is violated, or
(3) Carrying charges are substantially in excess of the average of carrying charges available elsewhere and the storing warehouse, after notice, declines to reduce such charges.
(d) CCC will not assume a loss on MAL collateral stored in a warehouse for any reason.
(e) The maturity date of any MAL may not be extended.
[67 FR 64459, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 65720, Nov. 5, 2008; 80 FR 133, 139, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.8
Amount of MALs.
(a) The loan rates for crops of upland cotton and ELS cotton will be determined and announced by CCC and made available at FSA State and county offices.
(b) The quantity of cotton which may be pledged as collateral for a loan will be the net weight of the eligible cotton as shown on the warehouse receipt issued by an approved warehouse, except that in the case of a bale which has a net weight of more than 600 pounds, the weight to be used in determining the amount of the loan on the bale will be 600 pounds. Cotton pledged as collateral for loans on the basis of reweights will not be accepted by CCC.
(c) The amount of the loan for each bale will be determined by multiplying
the net weight of the bale, as determined under paragraph (b) of this section by the applicable loan rate.
(d) CCC will not increase the amount of the loan made for any bale of cotton as a result of a redetermination of the quantity or quality of the bale after it is tendered to CCC, except that if it is established to the satisfaction of CCC that a bona fide error was made for the weight of the bale or the classification for the bale, such error may be corrected.
[67 FR 64459, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 65720, Nov. 5, 2008; 80 FR 133, 139, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.9
Classification of cotton.
(a) All cotton tendered for loan and LDP must be classed by an Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) Cotton Classing Office or other entity approved by AMS.
(b) An AMS cotton classification must be based upon a representative sample drawn from the bale by samplers under AMS procedures and instructions.
(c) If the producer's cotton has not been classed or sampled in a manner acceptable by CCC, the warehouse must sample such cotton and forward the samples to the AMS Cotton Classing Office or other entity approved by AMS. Such warehouse must be licensed by AMS or be approved by CCC to draw samples for submission to the AMS Cotton Classing Office.
(d) If a sample has been submitted for classification, another sample will not be drawn, except for a review classification.
(e) Where review classification is not involved:
(1) If through error or otherwise two or more samples from the same bale are submitted for classification, the loan rate will be based on the classification having the lower loan value;
(2) CCC will use classification information received directly from AMS rather than AMS classification information received from the producer.
(f) CCC will base any cotton loan rate or loan deficiency payment rate on the most recent classification information available before the loan or loan deficiency payment has been calculated. CCC will not adjust such rates based on review classification information submitted subsequent to the original benefit calculation.
[67 FR 64459, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 65720, Nov. 5, 2008; 80 FR 133, 139, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.10
Approved storage.
(a) Eligible cotton may be pledged as collateral for loans only if stored at warehouses approved by CCC, unless the producer agrees to provisions of 1427.5(n).
(1) Persons desiring approval of their facilities should contact the Kansas City Commodity Office Beacon Facility-Mail Stop 8748, P.O. Box 419205, Kansas City, Missouri 64141-6205.
(2) The names of approved warehouses may be obtained from the Kansas City Commodity Office or from FSA State or county offices.
(b) When the operator of a warehouse receives notice from CCC that a loan has been made on a bale of cotton, the operator will, if such cotton is not stored within the warehouse, as directed by CCC place such cotton within such warehouse.
(c) An approved cotton storage warehouse may temporarily store cotton pledged as collateral for a CCC loan outside, subject to the following conditions:
(1) The warehouse submits a request for approval of outside storage in a format prescribed by CCC.
(2) The warehouse is located in a storage deficit area as determined by CCC.
(3) The warehouse complies with all outside storage requirements established by CCC including but not limited to the duration of such outside storage as granted by CCC for the individual application, all-risk insurance for the loan value of the cotton with CCC as loss payee, and use of additional protective coverings and materials that elevate the entire bottom surface of the bale to protect such cotton from damage by water or airborne contaminants.
(4) The electronic warehouse receipt for any bale or bales of cotton pledged as collateral for a CCC loan must include the dates that the bale was initially stored outside, and the date that outside storage stopped.
(5) The warehouse operator provides CCC:
(i) A weekly report in a format prescribed by CCC identifying individual bales of cotton pledged as collateral for a CCC loan that are stored outside, and
(ii) Through their electronic warehouse receipt provider, on a current basis, location indicators and effective dates for any loan bale stored outside.
(d) Warehouse charges paid by a producer will not be refunded by CCC.
(e) The approved storage requirements provided in this section may be waived by CCC if the producer requests an LDP pursuant to the LDP provisions in § 1427.23.
(f) With respect to crops of ELS cotton, a producer may obtain a loan on cotton that is not stored as otherwise provided in this section if such cotton is stored:
(1) At a commercial entity that is involved in the handling or storage of cotton in a county or area determined and announced by CCC as approved for outside storage of ELS loan collateral; and
(2) The site is constructed in a manner to prevent the accumulation of water under such cotton.
[67 FR 64459, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 49328, Aug. 18, 2003; 69 FR 12056, Mar. 15, 2004; 71 FR 51427, Aug. 30, 2006; 73 FR 65720, Nov. 5, 2008; 80 FR 134, 139, Jan. 2, 2015; 86 FR 70706, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1427.11
Warehouse receipts.
(a) Producers may obtain loans on eligible cotton represented by electronic warehouse receipts only if the warehouse receipts meet the definition of a warehouse receipt and provide for delivery of the cotton to bearer or are properly assigned by endorsement in blank, so as to vest title in the holder of the receipt or are otherwise acceptable to CCC. The warehouse receipt must:
(1) Contain the gin bale number;
(2) Contain the warehouse receipt number;
(3) Be dated on or before the date the producer signs the note and security agreement.
(b) Warehouse receipts, under § 1427.3, when issued as block warehouse receipts will be accepted when authorized by CCC only if the owner of the warehouse issuing the block warehouse receipt owns the cotton represented by the block warehouse receipt and the warehouse is not licensed under the U.S. Warehouse Act.
(c)(1) Each receipt must set out in its terms the tare and the net weight of the bale represented by the receipt. The net weight shown on the warehouse receipt must be the difference between the gross weight as determined by the warehouse at the warehouse site and the tare weight. The warehouse receipt may show the net weight established at a gin if gin weights are permitted by the licensing authority for the warehouse.
(2) The tare weight shown on the receipt must be the tare weight furnished to the warehouse by the ginner or entered by the ginner on the gin bale tag. A machine card type warehouse receipt reflecting an alteration in gross, tare weight, or net weight will not be accepted by CCC unless it bears, on the face of the receipt, the following legend or similar wording approved by CCC, duly executed by the warehouse or an authorized representative of the warehouse:
Corrected (gross, tare, or net) weight,
(Name of warehouse),
By (Signature or initials),
Date.
(3) Alterations in other inserted data on a machine card type warehouse receipt must be initialed by an authorized representative of the warehouse.
(d) If warehouse storage charges have been paid, the receipt must show that date through which the storage charges have been paid.
(e) If warehouse receiving charges have been paid or waived, the warehouse receipt must show such fact.
(f) The warehouse receipt must show the compression status of the bale;
i.e.,
flat, modified flat, standard, gin standard, standard density (short), gin universal, universal density (short), or warehouse universal density. The receipt must show if the compression charge has been paid, or if the warehouse claims no lien for such compression.
[67 FR 64459, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 65720, Nov. 5, 2008; 86 FR 70706, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1427.12
Liens.
(a) Waivers that fully protect the interest of CCC must be obtained before loan disbursement, notwithstanding provisions in § 1427.19(h), if there are any liens or encumbrances on the cotton tendered as collateral for a loan, even though the liens or encumbrances are satisfied from the loan proceeds, except that CCC may elect to waive such lien requirements for loans having a principal value of less than $50,000.
(b) CCC may elect to accept cotton as loan collateral that has warehouse receiving, compression, or other charges without a lien waiver if the producer at the time of loan application agrees to reimburse CCC for any such charges that CCC may pay on behalf of the producer or that reduce the value of the cotton delivered to CCC.
[71 FR 51427, Aug. 30, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 65721, Nov. 5, 2008]
§ 1427.13
Fees, charges and interest.
(a) A producer must pay a nonrefundable loan service fee to CCC at the time of loan disbursement or, if applicable, to a loan servicing agent, at a rate determined by CCC. The fee is in addition to a cotton clerk fee specified in paragraph (b) of this section. The fee amounts are available in FSA State and county offices and are shown on the note and security agreement. Fees will be deducted from the loan proceeds.
(b) Cotton clerks may only charge fees for the preparation of loan or LDP documents at the rate determined by CCC.
(1) Such fees may be deducted from the loan or loan deficiency payment proceeds instead of the fees being paid in cash.
(2) The amount of such fees is available from CCC and is shown on the note and security agreement.
(c) Interest which accrues for a loan will be determined under part 1405 of this chapter. All or a portion of such interest may be waived for a quantity of upland cotton which has been redeemed under § 1427.19 at a level which is less than the principal amount of the loan plus charges and interest.
(d) For each crop of upland cotton, the producer, as defined in the Cotton Research and Promotion Act (7 U.S.C. 2101), must remit to CCC an assessment that will be transmitted by CCC to the Cotton Board and will be deducted from the:
(1) Loan proceeds for a crop of cotton and will be at a rate equal to one dollar per bale plus up to one percent of the loan amount; and
(2) LDP proceeds for a crop of cotton and will be at a rate equal to up to one percent of the LDP amount.
(e) If the producers elects to forfeit the loan collateral to CCC, the producer shall pay to CCC, at the rates that are specified in the storage agreement between the warehouse and CCC, the following accrued warehouse charges:
(1) All warehouse storage charges associated with the forfeited cotton that accrued before the date that all required documents were provided to CCC; and
(2) Any accrued warehouse receiving charges associated with the forfeited cotton, including, if applicable, charges for new ties as specified in § 1427.11.
(3) Any warehouse storage charges associated with the forfeited cotton that accrued during the period of the loan and paid by CCC to the warehouse that:
(i) Exceed CCC's maximum storage credit rate for the warehouse established in § 1427.19 and
(ii) Were paid by CCC for periods subject to denied storage credits due to the cotton being stored outside as specified in § 1427.19(h)(2)(ii).
(4) Unpaid warehouse compression charges.
[67 FR 64459, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 51427, Aug. 30, 2006; 73 FR 65721, Nov. 5, 2008; 80 FR 134, 139, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.14
[Reserved]
§ 1427.15
Special procedure where funds are advanced.
(a) The special procedure in this section is provided to assist persons or firms that, in the course of their regular business of handling cotton for producers, have made advances to eligible producers on cotton eligible to be pledged as collateral for a MAL or to
receive an LDP. A person, firm, or financial institution that has made advances to eligible producers on eligible cotton may also obtain reimbursement for the amounts advanced under this procedure.
(b) This special procedure will apply only:
(1) If such person or firm is entitled to reimbursement from the proceeds of the MALs or LDPs for the amounts advanced and has been authorized by the producer to deliver the loan or LDP documents to a FSA county office for disbursement of the loans or LDPs; and
(2) To MAL or LDP documents covering cotton on which a person or firm has advanced to the producers, including payments to prior lienholders and other creditors, the note amounts shown on the Form A loan documents, except for:
(i) Authorized cotton clerk fees;
(ii) The research and promotion fee to be collected for transmission to the Cotton Board by CCC; and
(iii) CCC loan service charges.
(c)(1) All MAL or LDP documents will be mailed, sent electronically, or delivered to the appropriate FSA county office and will show the entire proceeds of the MALs or LDPs, except for CCC loan service charges and research and promotion fees, for disbursement to:
(i) The financial institution which is to allow credit to the person or firm which made the loan or LDP advances or to such financial institution and such person or firm as joint payees; or
(ii) The person, firm, or financial institution which made the MAL or LDP advances to the producers.
(2) The documents will be accompanied by a Transmittal Schedule of Loan and LDP Documents (Transmittal) on a form prescribed by CCC, in original and two copies, numbered serially for each FSA county office by the person, firm, or financial institution that made the MAL or LDP advance. The Transmittal will show the amounts invested by the person, firm, or financial institution in the MALs or LDPs.
(3) Upon receipt of the MAL or LDP documents and Transmittal, the FSA county office will stamp one copy of the Transmittal to indicate receipt of the documents and return this copy to the person, firm, or financial institution.
(d) The person, firm, or financial institution will be deemed to have invested funds in the loans or LDP as of the date MAL or LDP documents acceptable to CCC were delivered to a FSA county office or, if received by mail, the date of mailing as indicated by postmark or the date of receipt in a FSA county office if no postmark date is shown. Patron postage meter date stamp will not be recognized as a postmark date.
(e) Interest will be computed on the total amount invested by the person, firm, or financial institution in the MAL or LDP represented by accepted documents from and including the date of investment of funds by the person, firm, or financial institution to, but not including, the date of disbursement by CCC.
(1) Interest will be paid at the rate in effect for CCC loans as provided in part 1405 of this chapter.
(2) Interest earned by the person, firm, or financial institution on the investment in loans disbursed during a month will be paid by CCC after the end of the month.
[67 FR 64459, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 80 FR 134, 139, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.16
Movement and protection of warehouse-stored cotton.
(a) CCC may insure or reinsure stored cotton against any risk, or otherwise take an action it deems necessary to protect the interest therein of CCC.
(b) A producer may transfer cotton loan collateral subject to the following conditions:
(1) The cotton is represented by an electronic warehouse receipt;
(2) The request is submitted by a producer or a properly designated agent of the producer;
(3) The transfer is agreed to by the receiving warehouse operator;
(4) The CCC MAL that is secured by such cotton matures at least 30 days after the date on which the request for the transfer is submitted to CCC; and
(5) Any charges, fees, costs, or expenses incident to the transfer of cotton loan collateral under this paragraph must be paid by the requestor of the transfer.
(c) CCC will exclude from the calculation of any storage credits payable under § 1427.19 the following periods:
(1) The period during which the cotton is in transit between warehouses; and
(2) Any period beyond 75 days starting from the date of transfer from the shipping warehouse, unless the shipping warehouse is:
(i) Not in compliance with any of the terms of its Cotton Storage Agreement, (ii) Storing cotton loan collateral outside, or
(iii) Under common ownership with the receiving warehouse.
[71 FR 51427, Aug. 30, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 65721, Nov. 5, 2008; 80 FR 139, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.17
[Reserved]
§ 1427.18
Liability of the producer.
(a)(1) If a producer makes any fraudulent representation in obtaining a MAL or LDP or in maintaining or settling a loan, or disposes of or moves the loan collateral without the prior written approval of CCC, such loan or LDP will be payable upon demand by CCC. The producer will be liable for:
(i) The amount of the MAL or LDP;
(ii) Any additional amounts paid by CCC for the loan or LDP;
(iii) All other costs which CCC would not have incurred but for the fraudulent representation or the unauthorized disposition or movement of the loan collateral;
(iv) Applicable interest on such amounts;
(v) Liquidated damages under paragraph (e) of this section; and
(vi) About amounts due for a loan, the payment of such amounts may not be satisfied by the forfeiture of loan collateral to CCC of cotton with a settlement value that is less than the total of such amounts or by repayment of such loan at the lower loan repayment rate as prescribed in § 1427.19.
(vii) CCC will not assume any loss pertaining to cotton stored in a warehouse for any reason.
(2) If a producer makes a fraudulent representation or if the producer has disposed of, or moved the loan collateral without prior written approval from CCC, the value of such collateral will be equal to its loan value, plus accrued interest, plus warehouse charges, and liquidated damages, as determined by CCC.
(b) If the amount disbursed under a MAL, or in settlement thereof, or LDP exceeds the amount authorized by this subpart, the producer will be liable for repayment of the difference, plus interest. In addition, the commodity pledged as collateral for the loan will not be released to the producer until the difference is repaid.
(c) If the amount collected from the producer in satisfaction of the MAL or LDP is less than the amount required under this subpart, the producer will be personally liable for repayment of the amount of the difference plus applicable interest.
(d) If more than one producer executes a note and security agreement or LDP application with CCC, each producer is jointly and severally liable for the violation of the terms and conditions of the note and security agreement or LDP application and this subpart. Each producer also remains liable for repayment of the entire loan or LDP amount until the loan is fully repaid without regard to their share in the cotton pledged as collateral for the loan or for which the LDP was made. In addition, the producer may not amend the note and security agreement or LDP application for the producer's claimed share in the cotton after execution of the note and security agreement or LDP application by CCC.
(e) The producer and CCC agree that it will be difficult, if not impossible, to prove the amount of damages to CCC if a producer makes any fraudulent representation in obtaining a loan or LDP, in maintaining or settling a loan, or disposing of or moving the loan collateral without the prior written approval of CCC. Accordingly, if CCC determines that the producer has violated the terms or conditions of their requests for a loan or any applicable form required by CCC, liquidated damages will be assessed on the quantity involved in
the violation. Liquidated damages assessed in accordance with this section will be determined by multiplying the quantity involved in the violation by 10 percent of the MAL rate applicable to the loan note.
(f) When it has been determined that a violation of the terms and conditions of a loan deficiency application has occurred, CCC will determine the quantity of the cotton involved with respect to such violation and assess liquidated damages by multiplying the quantity of cotton involved in the violation by 10 percent of the MAL rate.
(g) For cases other than first or second offenses, or any offense for which CCC cannot determine good faith when the violation occurred, CCC will:
(1) Assess liquidated damages under paragraph (e) of this section; and
(2) Call the applicable MAL involved in the violation and require repayment of any market loan gain previously realized for the applicable loan, plus any interest previously waived and any storage paid by CCC, and for an LDP, require repayment of the LDP and charges plus interest from the date the LDP was made.
(h) If the county committee acting on behalf of CCC determines that the producer has committed a violation under paragraph (e) of this section, CCC will notify the producer in writing that:
(1) The producer has 30 calendar days to provide evidence and information regarding the circumstances which caused the violation, to the county committee; and
(2) Administrative actions will be taken under paragraph (f) or (g) of this section.
(i) If CCC accelerates the maturity date for a loan under this section, the producer must repay the loan at principal and charges, plus interest and may not repay the loan at the lower of the loan repayment rate under § 1427.19 or utilize the provisions of part 1401 of this chapter for such loan.
(j) Any or all of the liquidated damages assessed under paragraph (e) of this section may be waived as determined by CCC.
(k)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, for ELS cotton stored as provided in § 1427.10(f), the producer is liable for all costs associated with the storage of the cotton while it is stored outside. CCC will make no storage payment or any other payment with respect to ELS cotton stored as provided in § 1427.10(f).
(2) The producer of ELS cotton that is stored as provided in § 1427.10(f) must:
(i) Certify the quantity of such cotton on the loan application; certify the cotton is packaged in a hermetically sealed bag with an internal humidity level established by the gin as appropriate to safeguard the cotton; certify that packaging materials meet or exceed industry minimum standards; certify that the storage area is suitable for cotton storage and is in an area approved by CCC; certify that the storage area is constructed to prevent water accumulation under the cotton and is outside a 100-year floodplain; and certify that the storage area is serviced by bale handling and transport equipment that will not damage the sealed bag or degrade the storage area;
(ii) Be responsible for any loss in quantity or quality of such cotton;
(iii) If the loan is satisfied by forfeiting the cotton to CCC, be responsible for all costs associated with delivering such cotton to a warehouse designated by CCC, all costs associated with any re-classification and repackaging that may be required by CCC or the warehouse operator to whom the cotton is delivered, all charges by the receiving warehouse for receiving the cotton and issuing an electronic warehouse receipt for the cotton, and other charges as may be levied by the warehouse specific to outside-stored cotton; and
(iv) Not move such cotton after the loan application is submitted to CCC without prior written approval of the county committee. Failure of the producer to receive such permission will subject the producer to administrative actions.
[67 FR 64459, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 49328, Aug. 18, 2003; 69 FR 12056, Mar. 15, 2004; 71 FR 32427, June 6, 2006; 73 FR 65721, Nov. 5, 2008; 80 FR 134, 139, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.19
Repayment of MALs.
(a) Warehouse receipts pledged as collateral for a CCC loan will not be released except as provided in this section.
(b) A producer, an authorized agent or anyone subsequently designated by the producer in the manner prescribed by CCC may redeem one or more bales of cotton pledged as collateral for a loan by payment to CCC of an amount applicable to the bales of cotton being redeemed determined under this section. CCC, upon proper payment for the amount due, will release the warehouse receipts applicable to such cotton.
(c) A producer or agent or subsequent agent authorized in writing in a manner prescribed by CCC may repay the loan amount for one or more bales of cotton pledged as collateral for a MAL:
(1) For upland cotton, at a level that is the lesser of:
(i) The loan level and charges, plus interest determined for such bales; or
(ii) The adjusted world price, as determined by CCC under § 1427.25, in effect on the day the repayment is received by the FSA county office, loan servicing agent, or cotton commercial bank that disbursed the loan.
(2) For ELS cotton, by repaying the loan amount and charges, plus interest determined for such bales.
(d) CCC will determine and publicly announce the adjusted world price for each crop of upland cotton on a weekly basis.
(e) The difference between the loan level, excluding charges and interest, and the loan repayment level is the market loan gain. The total amount of any market loan gain realized by a person is subject to part 1400 of this chapter.
(f) Repayment of loans will not be accepted after CCC acquires title to the cotton under § 1427.7.
(g) In the event that Thursday is a non-workday, such loan repayments will not be accepted beginning at 7 a.m. Eastern Standard time the next workday until an announcement of the adjusted world price for the succeeding weekly period has been made under § 1427.25(e).
(h) For purposes of calculating loan-period accrued storage charges that CCC may credit to the loan repayment amount under paragraph (i) of this section:
(1) The warehouse storage rates for cotton crops under loan will be the lower of:
(i) The tariff storage rate for the warehouse for the 2005 crop or, for any warehouse not in existence in 2005, a CCC-assigned average 2005 crop tariff rate for the county or area; or
(ii) The storage rate for 2006 crop cotton reduced by 10 percent.
(2) CCC will not credit the loan repayment amount for a bale for any storage charges that accrued while the cotton was stored outside, except that storage may be credited for up to 15-days of outside storage beginning on the day the warehouse was notified that the bale is under loan if the bale was inside on the 15th day from the date of notification.
(3) The loan period will be determined by CCC to begin:
(i) For loan disbursed by the FSA, on the date all loan documents, as determined and announced by CCC, have been received or
(ii) For a loan disbursed by a CMA or an authorized loan servicing agent, on the date the loan was disbursed by CCC.
(i)(1) An upland cotton loan repayment rate will not exceed the loan principal plus accrued interest for the period provided in § 1427.19(j).
(2) When the prevailing adjusted world price of upland cotton, as determined under § 1427.25, is less than the combined value of the loan principal, accrued interest, and warehouse storage that accrued during the period of the loan, CCC will permit the loan to be repaid at the adjusted world price less the storage charges that accrued during the period of the loan.
(j) For purposes of calculating interest charges on upland and extra long staple cotton loan principal, the loan period will be the period starting the date after the disbursement of the loan amount to, and including, the loan repayment date, except that interest is not charged for a loan that is disbursed and repaid on the same date.
(k) Repayment of loans will not be accepted after CCC acquires title to the cotton in accordance with § 1427.7.
(l) A producer who receives a market loan gain or LDP and later is determined to have been ineligible must refund the market loan gain or LDP to CCC.
[67 FR 64459, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 51428, Aug. 30, 2006; 73 FR 65721, Nov. 5, 2008; 80 FR 135, 139, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.20
Handling payments of $9.99 or less and collections not exceeding $24.99.
(a) Amounts of $9.99 or less will be paid to the producer only upon request.
(b) Deficiencies of $24.99 or less, including interest, may be disregarded unless CCC demands in writing that they be paid.
[80 FR 135, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.21
Settlement.
(a) The settlement of cotton loans will be made by CCC on the basis of the quality and quantity of the cotton delivered to CCC by the producer or acquired by CCC subject to the producer being responsible for, if applicable, warehouse receiving charges, new bale ties, unpaid warehouse compression, charges for and related to the certification of a bale and for any subsequent exchange of certificated receipts, storage charges for any period of yard storage, and storage charges in excess of any maximum storage credit rates as determined and announced by CCC.
(b) For purposes of settlements for cotton delivered to CCC in satisfaction of a loan obligation, CCC may elect to calculate such settlement values based on the net weight, condition, and classification as reflected on the warehouse receipt delivered to CCC, whether such receipt is the receipt issued by the original storing warehouse and presented for calculating the loan amount or a receipt issued by a subsequent warehouse due to the transfer of such bale while pledged as collateral for a CCC loan.
(c) If a producer does not pay CCC the amount due under a loan, CCC will take title to the cotton as provided in § 1427.7(b).
(d) With respect to ELS cotton which is stored as provided in § 1427.10(f), settlement of loans will be made based upon the determination of the quantity and quality made by CCC at the time of acceptance of the cotton by CCC at the warehouse designated by CCC as provided in § 1427.18(k).
(e) If CCC sells the commodity described in paragraph (a) of this section in settlement of the recourse loan, the sales proceeds will be applied to the amount owed CCC by the producer. The producer is responsible for any costs incurred by CCC in completing the sale and CCC will deduct the amount of these costs from the sales proceeds. When CCC sells any cotton obtained by forfeiture under a MAL, CCC will, in all instances, retain all proceeds obtained from the sale of the cotton and will not make any payment of any amount of such proceeds to any party, including the producer who had satisfied their obligation under the loan through forfeiture of the cotton to CCC.
(f) CCC will pay to the warehouse any unpaid storage or receiving charges for forfeited loan collateral, not to exceed the amount that accrued from the date that all necessary documents were received by CCC to the loan maturity date, as soon as practicable after the cotton is forfeited.
[67 FR 64459, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 49329, Aug. 18, 2003; 71 FR 32427, June 6, 2006; 73 FR 65721, Nov. 5, 2008; 80 FR 135, 139, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.22
Commodity certificate exchanges.
(a) For any outstanding marketing assistance loan provided for upland cotton, a producer may purchase a commodity certificate and exchange that commodity certificate for the marketing assistance loan collateral.
(b) The exchange rate is the lesser of:
(1) The loan rate and charges, plus interest applicable to the loan; or
(2) The adjusted world price for upland cotton as determined by CCC.
(c) Producers must request a commodity certificate exchange on or before loan maturity in person at the FSA county office by:
(1) Completing a written request on the form or providing the information as required by CCC:
(2) Purchasing a commodity certificate for the exact amount required to exchange the marketing assistance loan collateral; and
(3) Immediately exchanging the purchased commodity certificate for the outstanding loan collateral.
(d) Gains realized from a commodity certificate exchange are not subject to AGI or payment limitation provisions specified in part 1400 of this chapter.
[86 FR 70706, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1427.23
Cotton LDPs.
(a) In order to be eligible to receive such LDPs the producer of the upland cotton must:
(1) Comply with all of the upland cotton MAL eligibility requirements under this subpart;
(2) Agree to forgo obtaining such loans unless denied an LDP due to payment limitation;
(3) Submit, on a form prescribed by CCC, to the FSA county office on or before beneficial interest is lost in such quantity and before the final loan availability date for the commodity:
(i) An indication of their intentions to receive an LDP on the identified commodity or
(ii) A completed request for an LDP for a quantity of eligible cotton under § 1427.5(a).
(4) Provide warehouse receipts or, as determined by CCC, a list of gin bale numbers for such cotton showing, for each bale, the net weight established at the gin;
(5) For LDPs requested before ginning of the cotton based on a locked-in adjusted world price, provide identifying numbers for modules or other storage units that will correspond to the gin-assigned numbers of the bales produced from the unginned cotton; and
(6) Otherwise comply with all program requirements.
(b) The LDP applicable to a crop of cotton will be computed by multiplying the applicable LDP rate, as determined under paragraph (c) of this section, by the quantity of the crop the producer is eligible to pledge as collateral for a loan, excluding any quantity for which the producer obtains a MAL.
(c) The LDP rate for a crop of upland cotton will be the amount by which the loan rate determined for a bale of such crop exceeds the adjusted world price, as determined by CCC under § 1427.25, in effect on the day the request is received by the FSA county office, loan servicing agent, or cotton commercial bank. In no case will the LDP rate for a bale exceed the value of the bale had it been pledged as collateral for a MAL.
(d) The total amount of any LDPs that a person may receive is subject to AGI provisions specified in part 1400 of this chapter.
(e) If the producer enters into an agreement with CCC on or before the date of ginning a quantity of eligible upland cotton, and the producer has the beneficial interest in such quantity as specified under § 1427.5(c) on the date the cotton was ginned, and the producer meets all the other requirements in paragraph (a) of this section on or before the final date to apply for an LDP under § 1427.5, the LDP rate applicable to such cotton will be:
(1) Based on the date the cotton was ginned, which CCC will consider to be the date of the LDP request, if payment application is made in the manner prescribed by CCC for obtaining such rate;
(2) Based on the date of request for lock-in of the adjusted world price if payment application is made in the manner prescribed by CCC for obtaining such rate; or
(3) Based on the date a completed request including production evidence is submitted in the manner prescribed by CCC for obtaining such rate.
(f) In the event that Thursday is a non-workday, such applications for loan deficiency payments will not be accepted beginning at 7 a.m. Eastern time the next workday until an announcement of the adjusted world price for the succeeding weekly period has been made under § 1427.25(e).
[67 FR 64459, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 32427, June 6, 2006; 73 FR 65722, Nov. 5, 2008; 80 FR 135, 139, Jan. 2, 2015; 86 FR 70707, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1427.24
[Reserved]
§ 1427.25
Determination of the prevailing world market price and the adjusted world price for upland cotton.
(a) CCC will determine the world market price for upland cotton as follows:
(1) During the period when only one daily price quotation is available for
each growth quoted for Middling one and three-thirty-second inch (M 1
3/32
-inch) cotton, CFR (cost and freight) Far East, the prevailing world market price for upland cotton will be based on the average of the quotations for the preceding Friday through Thursday for the 5 lowest-priced growths of the growths quoted for M 1
3/32
-inch cotton, CFR Far East.
(2) During the period when both a price quotation for cotton for shipment no later than August/September of the current calendar year (current Far East shipment price) and a price quotation for cotton for shipment no earlier than October/November of the current calendar year (forward Far East shipment price) are available for growths quoted for M 1
3/32
-inch cotton, CFR Far East, the prevailing world market price for upland cotton will be based on the average of the current Far East shipment prices for the preceding Friday through Thursday for the 5 lowest-priced growths of the growths quoted for M 1
3/32
-inch cotton, CFR Far East, except as may be determined by the Secretary as specified in paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section.
(3) The upland cotton prevailing world market price determined as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section is referred to as the “Far East price” (FE).
(4) If quotes are not available for 1 or more days in the 5-day period, the available quotes during the period will be used. If no quotes are available during the Friday through Thursday period, the prevailing world market price will be based on the best available world price information, as CCC determines.
(b) The upland cotton prevailing world market price, adjusted as specified in paragraph (c) of this section (adjusted world price (AWP)), will apply to crops of upland cotton.
(c) The upland cotton AWP will equal the FE determined as specified in paragraph (a) of this section, adjusted as follows:
(1) FE will be adjusted to U.S. location by deducting the average costs to market, including average transportation costs, as determined by the Secretary.
(2) The price determined as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section will be adjusted to reflect the price of base quality upland cotton by deducting the difference, as CCC announces, between the applicable loan rate for an upland cotton crop for base quality M 1
3/32
-inch, leaf 3 cotton and the loan rate for base quality SLM 1
1/16
-inch, leaf 4 cotton.
(3) The prevailing world market price, adjusted as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section, may be further adjusted if it is determined that the adjustment is necessary to:
(i) Minimize potential loan forfeitures;
(ii) Minimize the accumulation of stocks of upland cotton by the Federal Government;
(iii) Ensure that upland cotton produced in the United States can be marketed freely and competitively, both domestically and internationally; and
(iv) Ensure an appropriate transition between current-crop and forward-crop price quotations, except that forward-crop price quotations may be used prior to July 31 of a marketing year only if there are insufficient current crop quotations and the forward-crop price quotation is the lowest such quotation available.
(d) The upland cotton AWP, determined as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, and the amount of the additional adjustment determined as specified in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, will be announced, to the extent practicable, at 4 p.m. eastern time each Thursday. In the event that Thursday is a non-workday, the determination will be announced, to the extent practicable, at 8 a.m. eastern time the next work day.
(e)(1)(i) AWP, determined as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, will be subject to a further coarse count adjustment as provided in this section regarding all qualities of upland cotton eligible for loan except the following upland cotton grades with a staple length of 1
1/16
-inch or longer:
(A) White Grades—Strict Middling and better, leaf 1 through leaf 6; Middling, leaf 1 through leaf 6; Strict Low Middling, leaf 1 through leaf 6; and Low Middling, leaf 1 through leaf 5;
(B) Light Spotted Grades—Strict Middling and better, leaf 1 through leaf 5; Middling, leaf 1 through leaf 5; and Strict Low Middling, leaf 1 through leaf 4; and
(C) Spotted Grades—Strict Middling and better, leaf 1 through leaf 2; and
(ii) Grade, leaf, and staple length must be determined as specified in § 1427.9. If no such official classification is presented, the coarse count adjustment will not be made.
(2) The adjustment for upland cotton specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section will be determined by deducting from AWP:
(i) The difference between FE, and
(A) During the period when only one daily price quotation for each growth quoted for “coarse count” cotton, CFR Far East, is available, the average of the quotations for the corresponding Friday through Thursday for the three lowest-priced growths of the growths quoted for “coarse count” cotton, CFR Far East (Far East coarse count price); or
(B) During the period when both current Far East shipment prices and forward Far East shipment prices are available for the growths quoted for “coarse count” cotton, CFR Far East, the result calculated by the average of the current Far East shipment prices for the preceding Friday through Thursday for the three lowest-priced growths of the growths quoted for “coarse count” cotton, CFR Far East (Far East coarse count price) minus
(ii) The difference between the applicable loan rate for an upland cotton crop for base quality M 1
3/32
-inch, leaf 3 cotton and the loan rate for an upland cotton crop for base quality SLM 1
1/32
-inch, leaf 4 cotton.
(3) Regarding the determination of the Far East coarse count price specified in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section:
(i) If no quotes are available for one or more days of the 5-day period, the available quotes will be used;
(ii) If quotes for three growths are not available for any day in the 5-day period, that day will not be considered; and
(iii) If quotes for three growths are not available for at least 3 days in the 5-day period, that week will not be considered, in which case the adjustment determined as specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section for the latest available week will continue to be applicable.
(f)(1)(i) AWP, determined as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, will be subject to a further fine count adjustment as provided in this section regarding all upland cotton having a loan schedule premium or discount exceeding that for Middling, leaf 3, staple length 1
3/32
-inch upland cotton, and
(ii) Grade, staple length, and leaf must be determined as specified in § 1427.9. If no such official classification is presented, the fine count adjustment will not be made.
(2) The adjustment for upland cotton specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section will be determined by deducting from AWP:
(i) The difference between FE, and
(A) During the period when only one daily price quotation for each growth quoted for “fine count” cotton, CFR Far East, is available the average of the quotations for the corresponding Friday through Thursday for the three lowest-priced growths of the growths quoted for “fine count” cotton, CFR Far East (Far East fine count price) or
(B) During the period when both current Far East shipment prices and forward Far East shipment prices are available for the growths quoted for “fine count” cotton, CFR Far East, the result calculated by the average of the current Far East shipment prices for the preceding Friday through Thursday for the three lowest-priced growths of the growths quoted for “fine count” cotton, CFR Far East (Far East fine count price) minus
(ii) The difference between the applicable loan rate for an upland cotton crop for base quality M 1
3/32
-inch, leaf 3 cotton and the loan rate for an upland cotton crop for base quality SM 1
1/8
-inch, leaf 2 cotton.
(3) Regarding the determination of the Far East fine count price under paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section:
(i) If no quotes are available for one or more days of the 5-day period, the available quotes will be used;
(ii) If quotes for three growths are not available for any day in the 5-day
period, that day will not be considered; and
(iii) If quotes for three growths are not available for at least 3 days in the 5-day period, that week will not be considered, in which case the adjustment determined as specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section for the latest available week will continue to be applicable.
(g) In the determination of FE as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the Far East coarse count price specified in paragraph (e)(2)(i)(B) of this section, and the Far East fine count price as specified in paragraph (f)(2)(i)(B) of this section, CCC will use either current Far East shipment prices, forward Far East shipment prices, or any combination thereof to determine FE or the Far East coarse count price or the Far East fine count price used in the determination of the adjustment for upland cotton specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (f)(1) of this section and determined as specified in paragraphs (e)(2) and (f)(2) of this section to prevent distortions in such adjustment.
(h) For particular bales, the AWP determined as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, will be subject to further adjustments to a value no less than zero, as CCC determines, based on the Schedule of Premiums and Discounts as announced for the loan program for an upland cotton crop.
[73 FR 65722, Nov. 5, 2008, as amended at 77 FR 19927, Apr. 3, 2012; 80 FR 135, Jan. 2, 2015]
Subparts B-C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Recourse Seed Cotton Loans

# Source:
67 FR 64459, Oct. 18, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1427.160
Applicability.
(a) This subpart is applicable to crops of upland and extra long staple seed cotton and as otherwise determined appropriate by the Deputy Administrator. This subpart specifies the terms and conditions under which recourse seed cotton loans will be made available by CCC. Such loans will be available through March 31 of the year following the calendar year in which such crop is normally harvested. CCC may change the loan availability period to conform to State or locally imposed quarantines. Additional terms and conditions are in the note and security agreement that must be executed by a producer in order to receive such loans.
(b) Loan rates and the forms that are used in administering the recourse seed cotton loan program for a crop of cotton are available in FSA State and county offices. Loan rates will be based on the base quality loan rate for upland cotton and the national average loan rate for extra long staple cotton.
(c) A producer must, unless otherwise authorized by CCC, request the loan at the FSA county office that, under part 718 of this title, is responsible for administering programs for the farm on which the cotton was produced. All note and security agreements and related documents necessary for the administration of the recourse seed cotton loan program will be prescribed by CCC and will be available at FSA State and county offices.
(d) Loans will not be available for seed cotton produced on land owned or otherwise in the possession of the United States if such land is occupied without the consent of the United States.
[67 FR 64459, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 65724, Nov. 5, 2008; 80 FR 136, 139, Jan. 2, 2015; 86 FR 70707, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1427.161
Administration.
(a) The Recourse Seed Cotton Loan Program that is applicable to a crop of cotton will be administered under the general supervision of the Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee and will be carried out in the field by FSA State and county committees.
(b) State and county committees, and representatives and employees thereof, do not have the authority to modify or waive any of the provisions of the regulations of this subpart.
(c) The State committee will take any action required by these regulations which has not been taken by the county committee. The State committee will also:
(1) Correct, or require a county committee to correct, an action taken by such county committee which is not
under the regulations of this subpart; or
(2) Require a county committee to withhold taking any action which is not under the regulations of this subpart.
(d) No provision or delegation herein to a State or county committee will preclude the Executive Vice President, CCC (Administrator, FSA), or a designee from determining any question arising under the recourse seed cotton program or from reversing or modifying any determination made by the State or county committee.
(e) The Deputy Administrator, FSA, may authorize waiver or modification of deadlines and other program requirements where lateness or failure to meet such other requirements does not adversely affect the operation of the recourse seed cotton loan program.
(f) A representative of CCC may execute loan applications and related documents only under the terms and conditions determined and announced by CCC. Any such document which is not executed under such terms and conditions, including any purported execution before the date authorized by CCC, will be null and void.
[67 FR 64459, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 80 FR 136, 139, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.162
[Reserved]
§ 1427.163
Disbursement of loans.
(a) A producer or the producer's agent must request a loan at the FSA county office for the county that, under part 718 of this title, is responsible for administering programs for the farm on which the cotton was produced and which will assist the producer in completing the loan documents, except that CMAs designated by producers to obtain loans on their behalf may, unless otherwise authorized by CCC, obtain loans through a central FSA county office designated by the State committee.
(b) Disbursement of each loan will be made by the FSA county office of the county that is responsible for administering programs for the farm on which the cotton was produced, except that CMAs designated by producers to obtain loans in their behalf may, unless otherwise authorized by CCC, obtain disbursement of loans at a central FSA county office designated by the State committee. Service charges will be deducted from the loan proceeds.
(1) The producer or the producer's agent must not present the loan documents for disbursement unless the cotton is in existence and in good condition.
(2) If the cotton is not in existence and in good condition at the time of disbursement, the producer or the agent must immediately return the check issued in payment of the loan or, if the check has been negotiated, the total amount disbursed under the loan, and charges plus interest must be refunded promptly.
[80 FR 136, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.164
Eligible producer.
An eligible producer must meet the requirements of § 1427.4.
§ 1427.165
Eligible seed cotton.
(a) Seed cotton pledged as collateral for a loan must be tendered to CCC by an eligible producer and must:
(1) Be in existence and in good condition at the time of disbursement of loan proceeds;
(2) Be stored in identity-preserved lots in approved storage meeting requirements of § 1427.171;
(3) Be insured at the full loan value against loss or damage by fire;
(4) Not have been sold, nor any sales option on such cotton granted, to a buyer under a contract which provides that the buyer may direct the producer to pledge the seed cotton to CCC as collateral for a loan;
(5) Not have been previously sold and repurchased; or pledged as collateral for a CCC loan and redeemed;
(6) Be production from acreage that has been reported timely under part 718 of this title; and
(b) The quality of cotton that may be pledged as collateral for a loan is the estimated quality of lint cotton in each lot of seed cotton as determined by the FSA county office, except that if a control sample of the lot of cotton is classed by an AMS Cotton Classing Office or other entity approved by CCC, the quality for the lot is the quality shown on the applicable documentation issued for the control sample.
(c) To be eligible for loan, the beneficial interest in the seed cotton must be in the producer who is pledging the seed cotton as collateral for a loan as provided in § 1427.5(c).
[67 FR 64459, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 80 FR 136, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.166
Insurance.
The seed cotton must be insured at the full loan value against loss or damage by fire.
§ 1427.167
Liens.
If there are any liens or encumbrances on the seed cotton tendered as collateral for a loan, waivers that fully protect the interest of CCC must be obtained even though the liens or encumbrances are satisfied from the loan proceeds. No additional liens or encumbrances shall be placed on the cotton after the loan is approved.
§ 1427.168
[Reserved]
§ 1427.169
Fees, charges, and interest.
(a) A producer must pay a non-refundable loan service fee at a rate determined by CCC.
(b) Interest which accrues for a loan will be determined under part 1405 of this chapter.
[67 FR 64459, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 80 FR 136, 139, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.170
Quantity for loan.
(a) The quantity of lint cotton in each lot of seed cotton tendered for loan will be determined by the FSA county office by multiplying the weight or estimated weight of seed cotton by the lint turnout factor determined under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The lint turnout factor for any lot of seed cotton will be the percentage determined by the county committee representative during the initial inspection of the lot. If a control portion of the lot is weighed and ginned, the turnout factor determined for the portion of cotton ginned will be used for the lot. If a control portion is not weighed and ginned, the lint turnout factor will not exceed 32 percent for machine-picked cotton and 22 percent for machine-stripped cotton unless acceptable proof is furnished showing that the lint turnout factor is greater.
(c) Loans will not be made on more than a percentage established by the county committee of the quantity of lint cotton determined as provided in this section. If the seed cotton is weighed, the percentage to be used will not be more than 95 percent. If the quantity is determined by measurement, the percentage to be used will not be more than 90 percent. The percentage to be used in determining the maximum quantity for any loan may be reduced below such percentages by the county committee when determined necessary to protect the interests of CCC on the basis of one or more of the following risk factors:
(1) Condition or suitability of the storage site or structure;
(2) Condition of the cotton;
(3) Location of the storage site or structure; and
(4) Other factors peculiar to individual farms or producers which related to the preservation or safety of the loan collateral. Loans may be made on a lower percentage basis at the producer's request.
[67 FR 64459, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 80 FR 136, 139, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.171
Approved storage.
Approved storage consists of storage located on or off the producer's farm (excluding public warehouses) that is determined by a county committee representative to afford adequate protection against loss or damage and is located within a reasonable distance, as determined by CCC, from an approved gin. If the cotton is not stored on the producer's farm, the producer must furnish satisfactory evidence that the producer has the authority to store the cotton on such property and that the owner of the property has no lien for such storage against the cotton. The producer must provide satisfactory evidence that the producer and any person having an interest in the cotton including CCC, have the right to enter the premises to inspect and examine the cotton and permit a reasonable time to such persons to remove the cotton from the premises.
[80 FR 136, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.172
Settlement.
(a) A producer may, at any time before maturity of the loan, obtain release of all or any part of the loan seed cotton by paying to CCC the amount of the loan, plus interest and charges.
(b)(1) A producer or the producer's agent must not remove from storage any cotton that is pledged as collateral for a loan until prior written approval has been received from CCC for removal of the cotton. If a producer or the producer's agent obtains CCC approval, they may remove the cotton from storage, sell the seed cotton, have it ginned, and sell the resulting lint cotton and cottonseed. The ginner must inform the FSA county office in writing immediately after the seed cotton removed from storage has been ginned and furnish the county office the loan number, producer's name, and applicable gin bale numbers. If the seed cotton is removed from storage, the loan principal plus interest and charges must be paid not later than the earlier of:
(i) The date established by the county committee;
(ii) 5 days after the date of the producer received the AMS classification under § 1427.9 (and the warehouse receipt, if the cotton is delivered to a warehouse), representing such cotton; or
(iii) The loan maturity date.
(2) If the seed cotton or lint cotton is sold, the loan principal, interest, and charges must be satisfied immediately.
(3) A producer, except a CMA, may obtain a nonrecourse loan or LDP under subpart A of this part, on the lint cotton, but:
(i) The loan principal, interest, and charges on the seed cotton must be satisfied from the proceeds of the nonrecourse loan under subpart A of this part; or
(ii) The LDP must be applied to the loan principal, interest, and charges on the outstanding seed cotton loan.
(4) A CMA must repay the seed cotton loan principal, interest, and charges before pledging the cotton for a nonrecourse loan or before an LDP can be approved under subpart A of this part, on the lint cotton. If a CMA, which is authorized by producers to obtain loans in their behalf, removes seed cotton from storage before obtaining approval to move the cotton, the removal will constitute conversion of the cotton unless the CMA:
(i) Notifies the FSA county office in writing the following morning by mail or otherwise that such cotton has been moved and is on the gin yard;
(ii) Furnishes CCC an irrevocable letter of credit if requested; and
(iii) Repays the loan principal, plus interest and charges, within the time specified by the county committee.
(5) Any removal from storage will not be deemed to constitute a release of CCC's security interest in the seed cotton or to release the producer or CMA from liability for the loan principal, interest, and charges if full payment of such amount is not received by the FSA county office.
(c) If, either before or after maturity, the producer discovers that the cotton is going out of condition or is in danger of going out of condition, the producer must immediately notify the FSA county office and confirm such notice in writing. If the county committee determines that the cotton is going out of condition or is in danger of going out of condition, the county committee will accelerate the maturity date and request repayment of the loan principal, plus interest and charges on or before a specified date. If the producer does not repay the loan or have the cotton ginned and obtain a nonrecourse loan under subpart A of this part on the resulting lint cotton within the period specified by the county committee, the cotton will be considered abandoned.
(d) If the producer has control of the storage site and if the producer subsequently loses control of the storage site or there is danger of flood or damage to the seed cotton or storage structure making continued storage of the cotton unsafe, the producer must immediately either repay the loan or move the seed cotton to the nearest approved gin for ginning and must, at the same time, inform the FSA county office. If the producer does not do so, the seed cotton will be considered abandoned.
(e) CCC will not assume any loss in quantity or quality of the loan collateral for recourse seed cotton loans.
[67 FR 64459, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 80 FR 136, 139, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.173
Foreclosure.
Any seed cotton pledged as collateral for a loan that is abandoned or has not been ginned and pledged as collateral for a nonrecourse loan under subpart A of this part by the seed cotton loan maturity date may be removed from storage by CCC and ginned and the resulting lint cotton warehoused for the account of CCC. The lint cotton and cottonseed may be sold at such time, in such manner and upon such terms as CCC may determine, at public or private sale. CCC may become the purchaser of the whole or any part of such cotton and cottonseed. If the proceeds received from the sales of the cotton are less than the amount due on the loan (including principal, interest, ginning charges, and any other charges incurred by CCC), the producer is liable for such difference. If the proceeds received from sale of the cotton are greater than the sum of the amount due plus any cost incurred by CCC in conducting the sale of the cotton, the amount of such excess will be paid to the producer or, if applicable, to any secured creditor of the producer.
[80 FR 137, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.174
Maturity of seed cotton loans.
Seed cotton loans mature on demand by CCC but no later than May 31 following the calendar year in which such crop is normally harvested.
§ 1427.175
Liability of the producer.
(a)(1) If a producer makes any fraudulent representation in obtaining a loan, maintaining a loan, or settling a loan or if the producer disposes of or moves the loan collateral without the prior approval of CCC, such loan amount must be refunded upon demand by CCC. The producer will be liable for:
(i) The amount of the loan;
(ii) Any additional amounts paid by CCC for the loan;
(iii) All other costs which CCC would not have incurred but for the fraudulent representation or the unauthorized disposition or movement of the loan collateral;
(iv) Applicable interest on such amounts; and
(v) Liquidated damages under paragraph (e) of this section.
(2) Notwithstanding any provision of the note and security agreement, if a producer has made any such fraudulent representation or if the producer has disposed of, or moved, the loan collateral without prior written approval from CCC, the value of such collateral acquired by CCC will be equal to the sales price of the cotton less any costs incurred by CCC in completing the sale.
(b) If the amount disbursed under a loan, or in settlement thereof, exceeds the amount authorized by this subpart, the producer is liable for repayment of such excess, plus interest. In addition, seed cotton pledged as collateral for such loan will not be released to the producer until such excess is repaid.
(c) If the amount collected from the producer in satisfaction of the loan is less than the amount required under this subpart, the producer is personally liable for repayment of the amount of such deficiency plus applicable interest.
(d) If more than one producer executes a note and security agreement with CCC, each such producer is jointly and severally liable for the violation of the terms and conditions of the note and security agreement and the regulations in this subpart. Each such producer also remains liable for repayment of the entire loan amount until the loan is fully repaid without regard to such producer's claimed share in the seed cotton pledged as collateral for the loan. In addition, such producer may not amend the note and security agreement for the producer's claimed share in such seed cotton, after execution of the note and security agreement by CCC.
(e) If a producer makes any fraudulent representation in obtaining a loan, in maintaining or settling a loan, or disposing of or moving the collateral without the prior approval of CCC, that is a violation of the terms or conditions of the note and security agreement. If CCC or the county committee
determines that the producer has violated the terms or conditions of the note and security agreement, liquidated damages will be assessed on the quantity of the seed cotton that is involved in the violation by multiplying the quantity involved in the violation by 10 percent of the loan rate applicable to the loan note. This amount will apply for both good faith and not good faith determinations.
(f) For first and second offenses, if CCC or the county committee determines that a producer acted in good faith when the violation occurred, the county committee will:
(1) Require repayment of the loan principal applicable to the loan quantity affected by the violation, and charges plus interest applicable to the amount repaid;
(2) Assess liquidated damages under paragraph (e) of this section; and
(3) If the producer fails to pay such amount within 30 calendar days from the date of notification, call the applicable loan involved in the violation.
(g) For cases other than first or second offenses, or any offense for which CCC or the county committee cannot determine good faith when the violation occurred, the county committee will:
(1) Assess liquidated damages under paragraph (e) of this section;
(2) Call the applicable loan involved in the violation.
(h) If CCC or the county committee determines that the producer has committed a violation under paragraph (e) of this section, the county committee shall notify the producer in writing that:
(1) The producer has 30 calendar days to provide evidence and information to the county committee regarding the circumstances which caused the violation, and
(2) Administrative actions will be taken under paragraphs (f) or (g) of this section.
(i) Any or all of the liquidated damages assessed under the provision of paragraph (e) of this section may be waived as determined by CCC.
[67 FR 64459, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 80 FR 136, 139, Jan. 2, 2015]

# Subpart E—Standards for Approval of Warehouses for Cotton and Cotton Linters

# Authority:
Secs. 4 and 5, 62 Stat. 1070, as amended, 1072, as amended (15 U.S.C. 714 b and c).

# Source:
44 FR 67085, Nov. 23, 1979, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1427.1081
General statement and administration.
(a) This subpart prescribes the requirements which must be met and the procedures which must be followed by a warehouseman in the United States or Puerto Rico who desires the approval by the Commodity Credit Corporation (hereinafter referred to as “CCC”) of warehouse(s) for the storage and handling of cotton and cotton linters, under a Cotton Storage Agreement, which are owned by CCC or held by CCC as security for price support loans. This subpart is not applicable to cotton or cotton linters purchased in storage for prompt shipment or to handling operations of a temporary nature.
(b) Copies of the CCC storage agreement and forms required for obtaining approval under this subpart may be obtained from the Kansas City Commodity Office, U.S. Department of Agriculture, P.O. Box 419205, Kansas City, Missouri 64141 (hereinafter referred to as the “KCCO”).
(c) A warehouse must be approved by the KCCO and a storage agreement must be in effect between CCC and the warehouseman before CCC will use such warehouse. The approval of a warehouse or the entering into of a storage agreement does not constitute a commitment that CCC will use the warehouse, and no official or employee of the U.S. Department of Agriculture is authorized to make any such commitment.
(d) A warehouseman, when applying for approval under this subpart must submit to CCC at KCCO:
(1) A completed “Application for Approval of Warehouse for Storage of Cotton and/or Cotton Linters,”
(2) A current financial statement on a “Financial Statement” form, supported by such supplemental schedules as CCC may request. Financial statements may be submitted on forms
other than a “Financial Statement” form with approval of the Director, KCCO, or the Director's designee. Financial statements must show the financial condition of the warehouseman as of a date no earlier than 90 days prior to the date of the warehouseman's application, or such other date as CCC may prescribe. Additional financial statements must be furnished annually and at such other times as CCC may require. CCC also may require that financial statements prepared by the warehouseman or by a public accountant be examined by an independent certified public accountant in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Only one financial statement is required for a chain of warehouses owned or operated by a single business entity. If approved by the Director, KCCO, or the Director's designee, the financial statement of a parent company, which includes the financial position of a wholly-owned subsidiary, may be used to meet the CCC standards for approval for the wholly-owned subsidiary.
(3) Evidence that the warehouseman is licensed by the appropriate licensing authority as required under § 1427.1082(a)(2) and such other documents or information as CCC may require,
(4) For warehouseman not operating under the U.S. Warehouse Act, a sample copy of the warehouseman's receipts and bale tags, and
(5) Evidence of applicable fire insurance rates.
[44 FR 67085, Nov. 23, 1979, as amended by Amdt. 3, 50 FR 16454, Apr. 26, 1985; 80 FR 137, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.1082
Basic standards.
(a) Unless otherwise provided in this subpart, each warehouseman and each of the warehouses owned or operated by such warehouseman for which CCC approval is sought for the storage or handling of CCC-owned or -loan commodities must meet the following standards:
(1) The warehouseman must:
(i) Be an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other legal entity engaged in the business of storing or handling for hire, or both, the applicable commodity. The warehouseman, if a corporation, must be authorized by its charter to engage in such business,
(ii) Have a current and valid license for the kind of storage operation for which the warehouseman seeks approval if such a license is required by State or local laws or regulations,
(iii) Have a net worth which is the greater of $25,000 or the amount which results from multiplying the maximum storage capacity of the warehouse (the total number of bales of cotton or cotton linters which the warehouse can accommodate when stored in the customary manner) times ten (10) dollars per bale. The net worth need not exceed $250,000. If the calculated net worth exceeds $25,000, the warehouseman may satisfy any deficiency in net worth between the $25,000 minimum requirement and such calculated net worth by furnishing bond (or acceptable substitute security) meeting the requirements of § 1427.1083,
(iv) Have available sufficient funds to meet ordinary operating expenses,
(v) Have satisfactorily corrected, upon request by CCC, any deficiencies in the performance of any storage agreement with CCC,
(vi) Maintain accurate and complete inventory and operating records,
(vii) Use only card type warehouse receipts which are pre-numbered and pre-punched or such other document as CCC may prescribe,
(viii) Have available at the warehouse adequate and operable firefighting equipment for the type of warehouse and applicable stored commodity, and
(ix) Have a work force and equipment available to provide adequate storage and handling service.
(2) The warehouseman, officials, or supervisory employees of the warehouseman in charge of the warehouse operation must have the necessary experience, organization, technical qualifications, and skills in the warehousing business regarding the applicable commodities to enable them to provide proper storage and handling services.
(3) Warehouseman, officials and each of the supervisory employees of the warehouseman in charge of the warehouse operation must:
(i) Have a satisfactory record of integrity, judgment, and performance, and
(ii) Be neither suspended nor debarred under applicable CCC suspension and debarment regulations.
(4) The warehouse must:
(i) Be of sound construction, in good state of repair, and adequately equipped to receive, handle, store, preserve, and deliver the applicable commodity,
(ii) Be under the control of the contracting warehouseman at all times, and
(iii) Not be subject to greater than normal risk of fire, flood, or other hazards.
(b) [Reserved]
[44 FR 67085, Nov. 23, 1979, as amended by Amdt. 3, 50 FR 16455, Apr. 26, 1985; 80 FR 138, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.1083
Bonding requirements for net worth.
(a) A bond furnished by a warehouseman under this subpart must meet the following requirements:
(1) Such bond must be executed by a surety which:
(i) Has been approved by the U.S. Treasury Department, and
(ii) Maintains an officer or representative authorized to accept service of legal process and in the State where the warehouse is located.
(2) Such bond must be on the Warehouseman's Bond form, except that a bond furnished under State law (statutory bond) or under operational rules of nongovernmental supervisory agencies may be accepted in an equivalent amount as a substitute for a bond running directly to CCC if:
(i) CCC determines that such bond provides adequate protection to CCC.
(ii) It has been executed by a surety specified in paragraph (a) of this section or has a blanket rider and endorsement executed by such a surety with the liability of the surety under such rider or endorsement being the same as that of the surety under the original bond, and
(iii) It is noncancellable for not less than ninety (90) days or includes a rider providing for not less than ninety (90) days' notice to CCC before cancellation. Excess coverage on a substitute bond for one warehouse will not be accepted or applied by CCC against insufficient bond coverage on other warehouses.
(3) Cash and negotiable securities offered by a warehouseman may be accepted by CCC in lieu of the equivalent amount of required bond coverage. Any such cash or negotiable securities accepted by CCC will be returned to the warehouseman when the period for which coverage was required has ended and there appears to CCC to be no liability under the storage agreement.
(4) A legal liability insurance policy may be accepted by CCC in lieu of the required amount of bond coverage provided such policy contains a clause or rider making the policy payable to CCC, CCC determines that it affords protection equivalent to a bond, and the Office of the General Counsel, U.S. Department of Agriculture, approves it for legal sufficiency.
(5) An irrevocable letter of credit may be accepted by CCC in lieu of the required amount of bond coverage provided that the issuing bank is a commercial bank insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Such standby letter of credit must be on the Irrevocable Letter of Credit form, or on such other form as may be specifically approved by the Director, KCCO, or the Director's designee.
(b) [Reserved]
[44 FR 67085, Nov. 23, 1979, as amended by Amdt. 3, 50 FR 16455, Apr. 26, 1985; 80 FR 138, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.1084
Examination of warehouses.
Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, a warehouse must be examined by a person designated by CCC before it may be approved by CCC for the storage and handling of the commodity and periodically thereafter to determine its compliance with CCC's standards and requirements.
§ 1427.1085
Exceptions.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this report:
(a) The financial bond and original and periodic warehouse examination provisions of this subpart do not apply to any warehouseman approved or applying for approval for the storage and
handling of cotton or cotton linters under CCC programs if the warehouse is licensed under the U.S. Warehouse Act for such commodity but a special examination will be made of such warehouse whenever CCC determines such action is necessary.
(b) A warehouseman who has a net worth of at least $25,000 but who fails, or whose warehouse fails, to meet one or more of the other standards of this subpart may be approved if:
(1) CCC determines that the warehouse services are needed and the warehouse storage and handling conditions provide satisfactory protection for the commodity,
(2) The warehouseman furnishes such additional bond coverage (or cash or acceptable negotiable securities or legal liability insurance policy) as may be prescribed by CCC.
[44 FR 67085, Nov. 23, 1979, as amended by Amdt. 3, 50 FR 16455, Apr. 26, 1985; 56 FR 11502, Mar. 19, 1991; 80 FR 139, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.1086
Approval of warehouse, requests for reconsideration.
(a) CCC will approve a warehouse if it determines that the warehouse meets the standards set forth in this subpart. CCC will send a notice of approval to the warehouseman. Approval under this subpart, however, does not relieve the warehouseman of the responsibility for performing the warehouseman's obligations under any agreement with CCC or any other agency of the United States.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in this subpart:
(1) CCC will not approve the warehouse if CCC determines that the warehouse does not meet the standards set forth in this subpart, and
(2) CCC will send any notice of rejection of approval to the warehouseman. This notice will state the cause(s) for such action. Unless the warehouseman or any officials or supervisory employees of the warehouseman are suspended or debarred, CCC will approve the warehouse if the warehouseman establishes that the causes for CCC's rejection of approval have been remedied.
(c) If rejection of approval by CCC is due to the warehouseman's failure to meet the standards set forth:
(1) In § 1427.1082, other than the standard specified in § 1427.1082(c)(2), the warehouseman may, at any time after receiving notice of such action, request reconsideration of the action and present to the Director, KCCO, in writing, information in support of such request. The Director will consider such information in making a determination and notify the warehouseman in writing of such determination. The warehouseman may, if dissatisfied with the Director's determination, obtain a review of the determination and an informal hearing by filing an appeal with the Deputy Administrator, Commodity Operations, Farm Service Agency (FSA). The time of filing appeals, forms for requesting an appeal, nature of the informal hearing, determination and reopening of the hearing will be as prescribed in the FSA regulations governing appeals, 7 CFR part 780. When appealing under such regulations, the warehouseman will be considered as a “participant”; and
(2) In § 1427.1082(c)(2), the warehouseman's administrative appeal rights with respect to suspension and debarment shall be in accordance with applicable CCC regulations. After expiration of a period of suspension or debarment, a warehouseman may, at any time, apply for approval under this subpart.
[Amdt. 3, 50 FR 16455, Apr. 26, 1985, as amended at 80 FR 138, 139, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.1087
Exemption from requirements.
(a) If warehousing services in any area cannot be secured under the provisions of this subpart and no reasonable and economical alternative is available for securing such services for commodities under CCC programs, the President or Executive Vice President, CCC may exempt, in writing, applicants in such area from one or more of the standards of this subpart and may establish such other standards as are considered necessary to safeguard satisfactorily the interests of CCC.
(b) Warehousemen who are currently under contract with CCC will be required to meet the terms and conditions of these regulations at the time of renewal of their contract.
[44 FR 67085, Nov. 23, 1979, as amended at 44 FR 74797, Dec. 18, 1979]
§ 1427.1088
Contract fees.
(a) Each warehouseman who has a non-federally licensed cotton warehouse must pay an annual contract fee for each such warehouse for which the warehouseman requests renewal of an existing Cotton Storage Agreement or approval of a new Cotton Storage Agreement as follows:
(1) A warehouseman who has an existing Cotton Storage Agreement with CCC for the storage and handling of CCC-owned cotton or cotton pledged to CCC as loan collateral must pay an annual contract fee for each warehouse approved under such agreement in advance of the renewal date of such agreement.
(2) A warehouseman who does not have an existing Cotton Storage Agreement with CCC for the storage and handling of CCC-owned cotton or cotton pledged to CCC as loan collateral but who desires such an agreement must pay a contract fee for each warehouse for which CCC approval is sought prior to the time that the agreement is approved by CCC.
(b) The amount of the contract fee will be determined and announced annually.
[Amdt. 4, 50 FR 36569, Sept. 9, 1985, as amended at 80 FR 138, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.1089
[Reserved]
Subpart F [Reserved]

# Subpart G—Extra Long Staple (ELS) Cotton Competitiveness Payment Program

# Source:
70 FR 67343, Nov. 7, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1427.1200
Applicability.
(a) This subpart specifies the terms and conditions under which CCC will make payments to eligible domestic users and exporters of extra long staple cotton who have entered into an ELS Cotton Domestic User/Exporter Agreement with CCC.
(b) CCC will issue payments to domestic users and exporters in any week following a consecutive 4-week period in which:
(1) The LFQ is less than the USPFE; and
(2) Adjusted LFQ is less than 113 percent of the current crop year loan level for the base quality U.S. Pima cotton.
(c) CCC will prescribe the forms and information collections necessary in administering the ELS cotton competitiveness payment program. Additional terms and conditions for the program are specified in the ELS Cotton Domestic User/Exporter Agreement.
[70 FR 67343, Nov. 7, 2005, as amended at 80 FR 138, Jan. 2, 2015; 86 FR 70707, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1427.1201
[Reserved]
§ 1427.1202
Definitions.
The following definitions apply as used in this subpart:
Consumption
means the use of eligible ELS cotton by a domestic user in the manufacture in the United States of cotton products.
Cotton product
means any product containing cotton fibers that result from the use of an eligible bale of ELS cotton in manufacturing.
Current shipment price
means, during the period in which two daily price quotations are available for the LFQ for the foreign growth, quoted C/F Far East, the price quotation for cotton for shipment no later than August/September of the current calendar year.
ELS
means Extra Long Staple.
Forward shipment price
means, during the period in which two daily price quotations are available for the LFQ for foreign growths, quoted C/F Far East, the price quotation for cotton for shipment no earlier than October/November of the current calendar year.
LFQ
means, during the period in which only one daily price quotation is available for the growth, the lowest average for the preceding Friday through Thursday week of the price quotations for foreign growths of ELS cotton, quoted cost and freight (C/F) Far East, after each respective average is adjusted for quality differences between
the respective foreign growth and U.S. Pima, of the base quality.
(1)
Adjusted LFQ
means the LFQ adjusted to reflect the estimated cost of transportation between an average U.S. location and destination ports in the Far East.
(2)
LFQc
means the preceding Friday through Thursday average of the current shipment prices for the lowest adjusted foreign growth, C/F Far East.
(3)
LFQf
means the preceding Friday through Thursday average of the forward shipment prices for the lowest adjusted foreign growth, quoted C/F Far East.
USPFE
means the Friday through Thursday weekly average of the price quotation for base quality U.S. Pima cotton, as determined by CCC for purposes of administering this subpart, C/F Far East.
(1)
USPFEc
means the preceding Friday through Thursday average of the current shipment prices for U.S. Pima cotton, C/F Far East.
(2)
USPFEf
means the preceding Friday through Thursday average of the forward shipment prices for U.S. Pima cotton, C/F Far East.
§ 1427.1203
Eligible ELS cotton.
(a) For the purposes of this subpart, eligible ELS cotton is domestically produced baled ELS cotton that is:
(1) Opened by an eligible domestic user on or after February 7, 2014, or
(2) Exported by an eligible exporter on or after February 7, 2014, during a Friday through Thursday period in which a payment rate determined under § 1427.1207 is in effect, and that meets the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section;
(b) Eligible ELS cotton must be either:
(1) Baled lint, including baled lint classified by USDA's Agricultural Marketing Service as Below Grade; or
(2) Loose.
(c) Eligible ELS cotton must not be:
(1) ELS for which a payment, under the provisions of this subpart, has been made available;
(2) Imported ELS cotton;
(3) Raw, unprocessed motes;
(4) Textile mill wastes; or
(5) Semi-processed or re-ginned, processed motes.
[70 FR 67343, Nov. 7, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 65724, Nov. 5, 2008; 80 FR 138, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.1204
Eligible domestic users and exporters.
(a) For the purposes of this subpart, the following persons shall be considered eligible domestic users and exporters of ELS cotton:
(1) A person regularly engaged in the business of opening bales of eligible ELS cotton to manufacturing such cotton into cotton products in the United States (a domestic user), who has entered into an agreement with CCC to participate in the ELS Cotton Competitiveness Payment Program; or
(2) A person, including a producer or CMA approved under part 1425 of this chapter, regularly engaged in selling eligible ELS cotton for exportation from the United States (an exporter), who has entered into an agreement with CCC to participate in the ELS Cotton Competitiveness Payment Program.
(b) Payment applications must contain the documentation required by this subpart, an ELS Cotton Domestic User/Exporter Agreement and additional information that may be requested by CCC.
[70 FR 67343, Nov. 7, 2005, as amended at 80 FR 138, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1427.1205
ELS Cotton Domestic User/Exporter Agreement.
(a) Payments under this subpart shall be made available to eligible domestic users and exporters who have entered into an ELS Cotton Domestic User/Exporter Agreement with CCC and who have complied with the terms and conditions in this subpart, the ELS Cotton Domestic User/Exporter Agreement and CCC-issued instructions.
(b) ELS Cotton Domestic User/Exporter Agreements may be obtained from CCC. To participate in the program authorized by this subpart, domestic users and exporters must execute the ELS Cotton Domestic User/Exporter Agreement and forward the original and one copy to CCC.
§ 1427.1206
[Reserved]
§ 1427.1207
Payment rate.
(a) The payment rate for payments made under this subpart will be determined as follows:
(1) Beginning the Friday on or following August 1 and ending the week in which the LFQc, the LFQf, the USPFEc, and the USPFEf prices first become available, the payment rate will be the difference between the USPFE and the LFQ in the fourth week of a consecutive 4-week period in which the USPFE exceeded the LFQ each week, and the adjusted LFQ was less than 113 percent of the current crop year loan level for U.S. base quality Pima cotton in all weeks of the 4-week period; and
(2) Beginning the Friday-through-Thursday week after the week in which the LFQc, the LFQf, the USPFEc, and the USFEf prices first become available and ending the Thursday following July 31, the payment rate will be the difference between the USPFEc and the LFQc in the fourth week of a consecutive 4-week period in which the USPFEc exceeded the LFQc each week, and the adjusted LFQc was less than 113 percent of the current crop year loan level for base quality U.S. Pima in all weeks of the 4-week period. If either or both the USPFEc and the LFQc are not available, the payment rate may be the difference between the USPFEf and the LFQf.
(b) Whenever a 4-week period under paragraph (a) of this section contains a combination of LFQ, LFQc, and LFQf for only one to three weeks, such as may occur in the spring when the LFQ is succeeded by the LFQc and the LFQf (spring transition), and at the start of a new marketing year when the LFQc and the LFQf are succeeded by the LFQ (marketing year transition), under paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, during both the spring transition and the marketing year transition periods, the LFQc and USPFEc, in combination with the LFQ and USPFE, will, to the extent practicable, be considered during such 4-week periods to determine whether a payment is to be issued. During both the spring transition and the marketing year transition periods, if either or both USPFEc price and the LFQc are not available, the USPFEf and the LFQf in combination with the USPFE price and LFQ will be taken into consideration during such 4-week periods to determine whether a payment is to be issued.
(c) For purposes of this subpart, regarding the determination of the USPFE, USPFEc, USPFEf, the LFQ, the LFQc, and the LFQf:
(1) If daily quotations are not available for one or more days of the 5-day period, the available quotations during the period will be used;
(2) If none of the USPFE, USPFEc, or USPFEf prices is available, or if none of the LFQ, LFQc, or LFQf is available, the payment rate will be zero and will remain zero unless and until sufficient USPFE prices or the LFQ again becomes available, the USPFE, USPFEc, or USPFEf price exceeds the LFQ, the LFQc, or the LFQf, as the case may be, and the LFQ, the LFQc, or the LFQf, as the case may be, adjusted for transportation, is less than 113 percent of the current crop year loan rate for base quality U.S. Pima for 4 consecutive weeks.
(d) Payment rates for loose lint that is of a suitable quality, without further processing, for spinning, papermaking or bleaching, will be based on a percentage of the basic rate for baled lint, as specified in the ELS Cotton Domestic User/Exporter Agreement.
[70 FR 67343, Nov. 7, 2005, as amended at 80 FR 139, Jan. 2, 2015]; 86 FR 70707, Dec. 13, 2021
§ 1427.1208
Payment.
(a) Payments under this subpart will be determined by multiplying:
(1) The payment rate, determined under § 1427.127, by
(2) The net weight (gross weight minus the weight of bagging and ties) determined under paragraph (b) of this section, of eligible ELS cotton bales that an eligible domestic user opens or an eligible exporter exports during the Friday through Thursday period following a week in which a payment rate is established.
(b) For the purposes of this subpart, the net weight will be based upon:
(1) For domestic users, the weight on which settlement for payment of the ELS cotton was based (landed mill weight);
(2) For exporters, the shipping warehouse weight or the gin weight if the ELS cotton was not placed in a warehouse, of the eligible cotton unless the exporter obtains and pays the cost of having all the bales in the shipment re-weighed by a licensed weigher and furnishes a copy of the certified weights.
(c) For the purposes of this subpart, eligible ELS cotton will be considered:
(1) Consumed by the domestic user on the date the bale is opened for consumption; and
(2) Exported by the exporter on the date that CCC determines is the date on which the cotton is shipped for export.
(d) Payments under this subpart will be made available upon application for payment and submission of supporting documentation, as required by this subpart, CCC instructions, and the ELS Cotton Domestic User/Exporter Agreement.
[70 FR 67343, Nov. 7, 2005, as amended at 80 FR 139, Jan. 2, 2015]
Pt. 1429

# PART 1429—ASPARAGUS REVENUE MARKET LOSS ASSISTANCE PAYMENT PROGRAM
Sec.
1429.101
Applicability.
1429.102
Administration.
1429.103
Definitions.
1429.104
Application requirements.
1429.105
Producer eligibility requirements.
1429.106
Proof of production.
1429.107
Maximum and final payment rates.
1429.108
Calculation of individual payments.
1429.109
Availability of funds.
1429.111
Misrepresentation and scheme or device.
1429.112
Death, incompetence, or disappearance.
1429.113
Maintaining records.
1429.114
Refunds; joint and several liability.
1429.115
Miscellaneous provisions and appeals.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 714b and 714c, and Sec. 10404, Pub. L. 110-246, 122 Stat. 2111.

# Source:
76 FR 6316, Feb. 4, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1429.101
Applicability.
(a) The regulations in this part are applicable to program applicants who produced both 2003- and 2007-crop asparagus. Asparagus producers may apply to the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) for a payment based on the actual quantity of their 2003 asparagus production and their share of that production.
(b) Total payments made through the Asparagus Revenue Marketing Loss Assistance Payment Program will not exceed $15 million, allocated as $7.5 million for fresh asparagus and $7.5 million for processed asparagus, less any reserve allocated for disputed claims.
§ 1429.102
Administration.
(a) The Asparagus Revenue Market Loss Assistance Payment Program will be administered under the general supervision of the Executive Vice President, CCC (Administrator, Farm Service Administration (FSA)), or a designee, and will be carried out in the field by FSA State and county committees and FSA employees.
(b) FSA State and county committees, and representatives and employees of those committees, do not have the authority to modify or waive any of the provisions of this part, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.
(c) The FSA State committee will take any action required by this part that has not been taken by the FSA county committee. The FSA State committee will also:
(1) Correct or require correction of an action taken by an FSA county committee that is not in compliance with this part; and
(2) Require an FSA county committee to not take an action or implement a decision that is not in compliance with the regulations of this part.
(d) No delegation in this part to an FSA State or county committee will preclude the Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee, from determining any question for the Asparagus Revenue Marketing Loss Assistance Payment Program, or from reversing or modifying any determination made by a State or county committee.
(e) The Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, FSA, may authorize FSA State and county committees to waive or modify program requirements that are not statutory in cases where failure to meet such requirements does not adversely affect the operation of
the Asparagus Revenue Market Loss Assistance Payment Program.
§ 1429.103
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this part. The definitions in parts 718 and 1400 of this title also apply, except where they conflict with the definitions in this section.
Application
means the Asparagus Revenue Market Loss Assistance Payment Program application form approved for use in this program by CCC and any required accompanying information or documentation.
Application period
means the 60-day period established by the Deputy Administrator for producers to apply for the Asparagus Revenue Marketing Loss Assistance Payment Program.
Asparagus producer
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, estate, trust, association, cooperative, or other business enterprise or other legal entity, as defined in § 1400.3 of this chapter, who is an owner, operator, landlord, tenant, or sharecropper, who directly or indirectly, as determined by the Secretary, shares in the risk of producing asparagus and who is entitled to ownership share in the asparagus crop available for marketing from the farm operation. Growers producing asparagus under contract for crop owners are not considered asparagus producers unless the grower can be determined to have an ownership share of the crop.
Base period
means the 2003 crop year of asparagus.
County office
means the FSA office responsible for administering CCC programs located in a specific area in a State.
Crop year
means the marketing season or year as defined by the National Agricultural Statistics Service (NASS).
Department or USDA
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Determined production
means, with respect to the base period, the total amount of fresh and processed asparagus specified on the application for payment verified by CCC as having been produced and marketed by the producer in the base period.
Farm Service Agency or FSA
means the Farm Service Agency of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Fresh asparagus
means domestically-produced asparagus that, regardless of intended use, was marketed as a fresh product without any processing other than cleaning, grading, sorting, trimming, drying, cooling, and packing.
Hundredweight or cwt.
means 100 pounds.
Processed asparagus
means domestically-produced asparagus that, regardless of intended use, was marketed as frozen, canned, pickled, or otherwise treated or handled in such fashion that the buyer would not consider the asparagus to be consumed as fresh, as determined by CCC.
Reliable production records
means evidence provided by the producer to the FSA county office that FSA determines is adequate to substantiate the amount of production reported when verifiable records are not available, including copies of receipts, ledgers of income, income statements, deposit slips, register tapes, invoices for custom harvesting, records to verify production costs, contemporaneous measurements, truck scale tickets, and contemporaneous diaries. When the term “acceptable production records” is used in this rule, it may be either reliable or verifiable production records, as defined in this section.
Reported production
means the total amount of fresh and processed asparagus produced and marketed by a producer, as specified by a producer on the application for payment.
United States
means the 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico.
Verifiable production records
means evidence that is used to substantiate the amount of production reported and that can be verified by FSA through an independent source.
§ 1429.104
Application requirements.
(a) To be eligible for payment, asparagus producers must submit a completed application for payment and meet other eligibility requirements as specified in this part. Asparagus producers may obtain an application in person, by mail, by telephone, or by facsimile from any FSA county office.
In addition, applicants may download a copy of the application from
http://www.sc.egov.usda.gov.
(b) An application for payment must be submitted on a completed application form. Applications and any other supporting documentation must be submitted to the FSA county office serving the county in which the producer produced asparagus in 2003 unless the producer now resides in a different county than the county in which asparagus was produced in the base period.
(c) Asparagus producers who apply for payment must certify the information on the application before the application will be considered complete. Applications may be accompanied by acceptable production records for all fresh and processed asparagus produced and marketed from the farm in the 2003 crop year. Producers must certify they had a share interest in both 2003 and 2007 crop asparagus. To be eligible for payment on asparagus produced in the base period, the producer must have produced asparagus in 2007 for the commercial market in commercial quantities as determined for this purpose by the Deputy Administrator. At any time CCC deems appropriate, either before or after payment issuance, CCC may, at its discretion, require a producer to provide documentation to support:
(1) Reported production of 2003 crop fresh or processed asparagus production or both entered on the application accompanied by acceptable production record,
(2) Share percentage of 2003 crop production by marketing category for each producer in the asparagus farm operation, or
(3) Any other eligibility requirement specified in this part including commercial quantities of 2007 production to meet the 2007 production requirement.
(d) Each asparagus producer who signs the application must certify the accuracy and truthfulness of the information in the application and any supporting documentation. All information provided is subject to verification by CCC. Refusal to allow CCC or any other agency of USDA to verify any information provided will result in a denial of eligibility. Furnishing the information is voluntary; however, without it program payments will not be approved. Providing a false certification may be punishable by imprisonment, fines, and other penalties or sanctions.
(e) Data furnished by the applicants will be used to determine eligibility for program payments. Although participation in the Asparagus Revenue Market Loss Assistance Payment Program is voluntary, program payments will not be provided unless the participant furnishes a complete application by the end of the application period with all requested data.
(f) Individuals or entities who submit applications after the application period are not entitled to any payment consideration or determination of eligibility. Regardless of the reason why an application is not submitted to or received by the FSA county office, any late application will be considered as not having been timely filed and the applicants on that application will not be eligible for the Asparagus Revenue Marketing Loss Assistance Payment Program.
§ 1429.105
Producer eligibility requirements.
(a) To be eligible to receive the Asparagus Revenue Marketing Loss Assistance Payment Program payments, asparagus producers must submit an application during the application period and must:
(1) Have produced and marketed asparagus in commercial quantities in commercial markets in the United States during both of the 2003 and 2007 crop years;
(2) Be an asparagus producer, as defined in § 1429.103, for the 2003 and 2007 crop years;
(3) Certify their shares and the pounds of fresh and processed asparagus produced and marketed from the farm operation during the 2003 crop year as reflected on the application;
(4) If the total value of payments claimed exceeds the available funding, have an average adjusted gross income (AGI) of less than $2.5 million for the 3 tax years of 2003 through 2005; and
(5) Be in compliance with the requirements in 7 CFR part 12 regarding highly erodible cropland and wetlands and meet any general farm program eligibility requirements that apply under 7
CFR part 1400 or other regulations as applicable.
(b) Asparagus producers must sign an application to be considered for payment eligibility. Asparagus producers who do not sign an application will not receive payment or a determination of eligibility, even if other producers in the asparagus farm operation sign an application and receive payment.
(c) Each applicant determined by spot check or other information to not have an interest as an asparagus producer in 2003 and 2007 who meets the other qualifications of this part will be ineligible for payment and such applicant's claimed share shown on the application will not be paid.
§ 1429.106
Proof of production.
(a) Producers selected for spot check by CCC must, in accordance with instructions issued by the Deputy Administrator or a designee, provide adequate proof of the fresh and processed asparagus produced and marketed during the 2003 and 2007 crop years.
(b) If adequate proof of marketed production and supporting documentation in support of any application for payment is not presented to the satisfaction of CCC or the FSA county office requesting information, the application and the producers on that application will be determined ineligible for payment.
§ 1429.107
Maximum and final payment rates.
(a) Subject to the funding limits that may apply to the program, the estimated maximum per pound payment rates for fresh market asparagus and for processed market asparagus are:
(1) $1.06 per pound ($106.00 per hundredweight) for 2003 crop quantities of asparagus marketed to fresh markets; and
(2) $1.08 per pound ($108.00 per hundredweight) for 2003 crop quantities of asparagus marketed for processing.
(b) This program will be administered to assure that total payments do not exceed the available funding. If the total value of payments claimed calculated using the maximum payment rates specified in paragraph (a) of this section exceeds the funding available for each marketing category, less any reserve that may be created as specified in § 1429.109, the payment quantities will be paid at a lower rate determined by dividing the funds available in each marketing category of asparagus, by the payment quantity from applications received by the end of the application period in each marketing category.
(c) In no event will the payment rate exceed the maximum payment rate for each marketing category of asparagus determined in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 1429.108
Calculation of individual payments.
(a) Producers will be eligible for payment for both fresh and processed asparagus. CCC will calculate the payment quantity of 2003 fresh and processed asparagus for an asparagus farm operation based on the lower of:
(1) Reported production reflected on the application, or
(2) If applicable, determined production.
(b) The payment quantity will be multiplied by the following:
(1) Each asparagus producer's share, and
(2) The payment rate for the fresh or processed asparagus determined as specified in § 1429.107.
(c) If the total value of payments claimed exceeds the available funding, payments to producers are subject to a $100,000 cap per each of the two program marketing categories (fresh and processed) per asparagus producer as defined in this part, not per “person” or “legal entity” as those terms might be defined in part 1400 of this title.
§ 1429.109
Availability of funds.
(a) Payments specified in this part are subject to the availability of funds. The total available program funds will be $15,000,000 as provided by section 10404 of Public Law 110-246.
(b) Of the available funds, $7,500,000 are allocated for fresh market asparagus production and $7,500,000 are allocated to processed market asparagus.
(c) CCC will prorate the available funds by a national factor to ensure that payments do not exceed
$15,000,000. CCC will prorate the payments in such manner as it, in its sole discretion, finds fair and reasonable.
(d) A reserve will be created to handle appeals and errors. Claims will not be payable once the available funding is expended. Any amount of funds reserved for such purposes that are not disbursed for the purpose of correcting errors or omissions, or for the payment of appeals, will not otherwise be distributed to any payment applicants and will be refunded to the U.S. Department of Treasury.
§ 1429.111
Misrepresentation and scheme or device.
(a) In addition to other penalties, sanctions, or remedies as may apply, an asparagus producer will be ineligible to receive assistance through the Asparagus Revenue Market Loss Assistance Payment Program if the asparagus producer is determined by CCC to have:
(1) Adopted any scheme or device that tends to defeat the purpose of this program;
(2) Made any fraudulent representation; or
(3) Misrepresented any fact affecting a program determination.
(b) Any funds disbursed pursuant to this part to any person or operation engaged in a misrepresentation, scheme, or device, must be refunded with interest together with such other sums as may become due and all charges including interest will run from the date of the disbursement of the CCC funds. Any asparagus farm operation, asparagus producer, or person engaged in acts prohibited by this section and any asparagus farm operation, asparagus producer, or person receiving payment as specified in this part will be jointly and severally liable with other persons or operations involved in such claim for payment for any refund due as specified in this section and for related charges. The remedies provided in this part will be in addition to other civil, criminal, or administrative remedies that may apply.
§ 1429.112
Death, incompetence, or disappearance.
(a) In the case of death, incompetency, disappearance, or dissolution of a person or an entity that is eligible to receive payment as specified in this part, an alternate person or persons as specified in part 707 of this title may receive such payment, as determined appropriate by CCC.
(b) Payment may be made for asparagus market losses suffered by an otherwise eligible asparagus producer who is now deceased or is a dissolved entity if a representative who currently has authority to enter into an application for the producer or the producer's estate signs the application for payment. Proof of authority to sign for the deceased producer's estate or a dissolved entity must be provided. If an asparagus producer is now a dissolved general partnership or joint venture, all members of the general partnership or joint venture at the time of dissolution or their duly-authorized representatives must sign the application for payment.
§ 1429.113
Maintaining records.
Producers applying for payment through the Asparagus Revenue Market Loss Assistance Payment Program must maintain records and accounts to document all eligibility requirements specified in this part. Such records and accounts must be retained for 3 years after the date of payment.
§ 1429.114
Refunds; joint and several liability.
(a) Excess payments, payments provided as the result of erroneous information provided by any person, or payments resulting from a failure to comply with any requirement or condition for payment in the application or this part, must be refunded to CCC.
(b) A refund required as specified in this section will be due with interest from the date of CCC disbursement and determined in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section and late payment charges as provided in part 1403 of this chapter.
(c) Persons signing an ALAP Program application as having an interest in the asparagus farm operation will be jointly and severally liable for any refund and related charges found to be due as specified in this section.
(d) Interest will be applicable to any refunds required as specified in parts
792 and 1403 of this title. Such interest will be charged at the rate that the U.S. Department of the Treasury charges CCC for funds, and will accrue from the date CCC made the erroneous payment to the date of repayment.
(e) CCC may waive the accrual of interest if it determines that the cause of the erroneous determination was not due to any action of the person, or was beyond the control of the person committing the violation. Any waiver is at the discretion of CCC alone.
§ 1429.115
Miscellaneous provisions and appeals.
(a)
Offset.
CCC may offset or withhold any amount due CCC as specified in this part in accordance with the provisions of part 1403 of this chapter.
(b)
Claims.
Claims or debts will be settled in accordance with the provisions of part 1403 of this chapter.
(c)
Other interests.
Payments or any portion thereof due under this part will be made without regard to questions of title under State law and without regard to any claim or lien against the asparagus crop, or proceeds thereof, in favor of the owner or any other creditor except agencies and instrumentalities of the U.S. Government.
(d)
Assignments.
Any asparagus producer entitled to any payment as specified in this part may assign any payment in accordance with the provisions of part 1404 of this chapter.
(e)
Appeals.
Appeals will be handled as specified in parts 11 and 780 of this title.
Pt. 1430

# PART 1430—DAIRY PRODUCTS

# Subpart A—Margin Protection Program for Dairy Producers
Sec.
1430.100
Purpose.
1430.101
Administration.
1430.102
Definitions.
1430.103
Eligible dairy operations.
1430.104
Time and method of registration and annual election.
1430.105
Establishment and transfer of production history for a participating dairy operation.
1430.106
Administrative fees.
1430.107
Buy-up coverage.
1430.108
Margin protection payments.
1430.109
Effect of failure to pay administrative fees or premiums.
1430.110
Calculation of average feed cost and actual dairy production margins.
1430.111
Relation to RMA's LGM-Dairy Program.
1430.112
Multi-year contract.
1430.113
Contract modifications.
1430.114
Reconstitutions.
1430.115
Offsets and withholdings.
1430.116
Assignments.
1430.117
Appeals.
1430.118
Misrepresentation and scheme or device.
1430.119
Estates, trusts, and minors.
1430.120
Death, incompetency, or disappearance.
1430.121
Maintenance and inspection of records.
1430.122
Refunds; joint and several liability.
1430.123
Violations of highly erodible and wetland conservation provisions.
1430.124
Violations regarding controlled substances.

# Subpart B—Milk Income Loss Contract Program
1430.200
Applicability.
1430.201
Administration.
1430.202
Definitions.
1430.203
Eligibility.
1430.204
Requesting benefits.
1430.205
Selection of starting month.
1430.206
[Reserved]
1430.207
Dairy operation payment quantity.
1430.208
Payment rate and dairy operation payment.
1430.209
Proof of market loss production.
1430.210
MILC agents.
1430.211
Duration of contracts.
1430.212
Contract modifications and statutory changes in program.
1430.213
Reconstitutions.
1430.214
Violations.
1430.215
[Reserved]
1430.216
Contracts not in conformity with regulations.
1430.217
Offsets and withholdings.
1430.218
Assignments.
1430.219
Appeals.
1430.220
Misrepresentation and scheme or device.
1430.221
Estates, trusts, and minors.
1430.222
Death, incompetency, or disappearance.
1430.223
Maintenance and inspection of records.
1430.224
Refunds; joint and several liability.
1430.225
Violations of highly erodible land and wetland conservation provisions.
1430.226
Violations regarding controlled substances.

# Subpart C—Dairy Product Donation Program
1430.300
Administration, purpose, and funding.
1430.301
Definitions.
1430.302
Commencement and termination of DPDP purchases.
1430.303
DPDP purchases.
1430.304
Distribution of DPDP purchased products.

# Subpart D—Dairy Margin Coverage Program
1430.400
Purpose.
1430.401
Administration.
1430.402
Definitions.
1430.403
Eligible dairy operations.
1430.404
Time and method of registration and annual election.
1430.405
Establishment and transfer of production history for a participating dairy operation.
1430.406
Administrative fees.
1430.407
Buy-up coverage.
1430.408
MPP-Dairy premium repayments.
1430.409
Dairy margin coverage payments.
1430.410
Effect of failure to pay administrative fees or premiums.
1430.411
Calculation of average feed cost and actual dairy production margin.
1430.412
Relation to RMA's LGM-Dairy Program.
1430.413
Multi-year contract for lock-in option.
1430.414
Contract modifications.
1430.415
Reconstitutions.
1430.416
Offsets and withholdings.
1430.417
Assignments.
1430.418
Appeals.
1430.419
Misrepresentation and scheme or device.
1430.420
Estates, trusts, and minors.
1430.421
Death, incompetency, or disappearance.
1430.422
Maintenance and inspection of records.
1430.423
Refunds; joint and several liability.
1430.424
Violations of highly erodible and wetland conservation provisions.
1430.425
Violations regarding controlled substances.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 9051-9060 and 9071 and 15 U.S.C. 714b and 714c.

# Subpart A—Margin Protection Program for Dairy Producers

# Source:
79 FR 51462, Aug. 29, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1430.100
Purpose.
The regulations in this subpart apply for the Margin Protection Program for Dairy (MPP-Dairy), which is authorized by sections 1401 through 1410 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Pub. L. 113-79, 7 U.S.C. 9051-9060). MPP-Dairy is intended to provide eligible dairy producers risk protection against low margins resulting from a combination of low milk prices and high feed costs.
§ 1430.101
Administration.
(a) MPP-Dairy is administered under the general supervision of the Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee, and will be carried out by Farm Service Agency (FSA) State and county committees and employees.
(b) State and county committees and their employees may not waive or modify any requirement of this subpart.
(c) The State committee will take any action required when not taken by the county committee, require correction of actions not in compliance, or require the withholding of any action that is not in compliance with this subpart.
(d) The Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee, may determine any question arising under MPP-Dairy or reverse or modify any decision of the State or county committee.
(e) The Deputy Administrator, Farm Programs, FSA, may waive or modify MPP-Dairy requirements not statutorily required when failure to meet such requirements does not adversely affect the operation of MPP-Dairy.
(f) A representative of CCC will execute a contract for registration in MPP-Dairy and related documents under the terms and conditions determined and announced by the Deputy Administrator on behalf of CCC. Any document not under such terms and conditions, including any execution before the date authorized by CCC, will be null and void.
§ 1430.102
Definitions.
The definitions in this section are applicable for the purposes of administering MPP-Dairy established by this subpart.
Actual dairy production margin
means the difference between the all-milk price and the average feed cost, as calculated under § 1430.110. If the calculation would produce a negative number the margin will be considered to be zero.
Administrative county office
means the county office designated to make determinations, handle official records,
and issue payments for the producer as specified in 7 CFR part 718.
All-milk price
means the national average price received, per hundredweight of milk, by dairy operations for all milk sold to dairy plants and milk dealers in the United States, as determined by the Secretary.
AMS
means the Agricultural Marketing Service of the USDA.
Annual election period for MPP-Dairy
means the period, each calendar year, established by the Deputy Administrator, for a dairy operation to register initially to participate in MPP-Dairy, pay associated administrative fees, and applicable premiums, or, if already registered as a participating dairy operation, to make annual coverage elections for an applicable calendar year.
Average feed cost
means the national average cost of feed used by a dairy operation to produce a hundredweight of milk, as determined under § 1430.110(b).
Buy up coverage
means margin protection coverage for a margin protection level above $4 per hundredweight of milk.
Catastrophic level coverage
means $4 per cwt margin protection coverage and a coverage percentage of 90 percent, with no premium assessed.
CCC
means the Commodity Credit Corporation of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Commercially marketed
means selling whole milk to either the market to which the dairy operation normally delivers and receives monetary compensation or other similar markets.
Consecutive 2-month period
means a 2-month period consisting, respectively, of the months of January and February; March and April; May and June; July and August; September and October; or November and December.
Contract
means the terms and conditions to register for the MPP-Dairy as executed on a form prescribed by CCC and required to be completed by the dairy operation and accepted by CCC, including any contract modifications made in an annual election period before coverage for the applicable calendar year commences.
County committee
means the FSA county committee.
County office
means the FSA office responsible for administering FSA programs for farms located in a specific area in a State.
Covered production history
is equal to the production history of the operation multiplied by the coverage percentage selected by the participating dairy operation.
Dairy operation
means a dairy operation as defined pursuant to the criteria and procedures under the Milk Income Loss Contract (MILC) Program or any dairy facility that was part of a single dairy operation that participated in the MILC Program as of February 7, 2014. Operations that are determined to be “new operations” under this subpart, will be subject to the “affiliation” test under § 1430.103(e) if the operation elects to participate in MPP-Dairy separately. A single dairy operation operated by more than one dairy producer will be treated as a single dairy operation for purposes of participating in MPP-Dairy and can only submit one application. All dairy operations under this part shall commercially market milk produced from cows as a single unit located in the United States in which each dairy producer:
(1) Has risk in the production of milk in the dairy operation; and
(2) Makes contributions, including land, labor, management, equipment, or capital, to the dairy operation at least commensurate to the producers' share of the operation.
Deputy Administrator
means the Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, or designee.
Farm Service Agency or FSA
means the Farm Service Agency of the USDA.
Hundredweight or cwt
means 100 pounds.
Intergenerational transfer
means the one-time establishment of additional production history for a participating dairy operation when a lineal descendant, who is a son, daughter, grandchild, or spouse of a child or grandchild of a current member joins a participating dairy operation.
Milk Income Loss Contract Program or MILC
means the program established under section 1506 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 8773) and the regulations found in subpart B of this part.
Milk marketing
means a sale of milk for which there is a verifiable production record for milk commercially marketed.
NASS
means the National Agricultural Statistics Service of the USDA.
New operation
means a dairy operation that did not commercially market milk at least 12 full months as of February 7, 2014.
Participating dairy operation
means a dairy operation that registers to participate in MPP-Dairy under this part.
Producer
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, estate, trust association, cooperative, or other business enterprise or other legal entity who is, or whose members are, a citizen of, or legal resident alien in the United States, and who directly or indirectly, shares in the risk of producing milk, makes contributions including land, labor, management, equipment, or capital to the dairy operation at least commensurate to the producers' share of the operation, to the dairy operation of the individual or entity, as determined by the Deputy Administrator.
Production history
means the production history determined for a participating dairy operation when the participating dairy operation registers in MPP-Dairy.
RMA
means the Risk Management Agency of the USDA.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
United States
means the 50 States of the United States of America, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and any other territory or possession of the United States.
USDA
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
Verifiable production records
mean evidence that is used to substantiate the amount of production commercially marketed and that can be verified by CCC through an independent source.
[79 FR 51462, Aug. 29, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 21704, Apr. 13, 2016]
§ 1430.103
Eligible dairy operations.
(a) The eligibility requirements for a dairy operation to register in MPP-Dairy and receive payments under this subpart, are to:
(1) Produce milk from cows in the United States that is marketed commercially at the time of each annual election in MPP-Dairy;
(2) Submit accurate and complete information as required by the this subpart;
(3) Provide proof of milk production marketed commercially by all persons in the dairy operation to establish production history;
(4) Not participate in the Livestock Gross Margin for Dairy (LGM-Dairy) Program administered by the USDA Risk Management Agency (RMA) under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501-1536), except to the extent permitted by this subpart, provided that under no circumstance may the operation receive coverage for the same period in MPP-Dairy for which payments have been received or earned under LGM-Dairy; and
(5) Pay required administrative fees for participation in MPP-Dairy as specified in this subpart and any premiums, if applicable, as specified in this subpart.
(b) A person or entity covered by § 1400.401 of this chapter (hereafter “foreign person”) must meet the eligibility requirements contained in that section to receive payments under this part. A dairy operation with ineligible foreign persons as members will have any payment reduced by the proportional share of such members.
(c) Federal agencies and States, including all agencies and political subdivisions of a State, are not eligible for payments under this subpart.
(d) As specified in § 1430.104, each dairy operation is required to submit a separate registration to be eligible for MPP-Dairy coverage and payment. A producer who owns more than one eligible dairy operation may participate separately for each dairy operation; each eligible dairy operation must be registered separately, subject to the affiliation test for new operations.
(e) A new dairy operation will be treated as an affiliated dairy operation and not be treated as a separate dairy
operation under MPP-Dairy if producers that collectively own more than 50 percent of the new dairy operation also collectively own more than 50 percent interest in another dairy operation registered in MPP-Dairy.
§ 1430.104
Time and method of registration and annual election.
(a) A dairy operation may register to participate in MPP-Dairy by submitting a contract prescribed by CCC. Dairy operations may obtain a blank contract in person, by mail, or by facsimile from any county office. In addition, dairy operations may download a copy of the forms at
http://www.sc.egov.usda.gov.
(b) Dairy operation shall submit completed contracts and any other supporting documentation during the annual election period established by the Deputy Administrator, to the administrative county office serving the dairy operation.
(1) A new dairy operation that has been established after the most recent election period is required to submit a contract within the first 90 calendar days from the date on of which the dairy operation first commercially markets milk and may elect coverage that begins the next consecutive 2-month period following the submission date of the registration and coverage election; or
(2) A new dairy operation that does not meet the 90 day requirement of paragraph (b)(1) of this section cannot enroll until the next annual election period for coverage for the following calendar year.
(c) Registration requests and coverage elections are to be submitted in time to be received at FSA by the close of business on the last day of the annual election period established by the Deputy Administrator.
(1) The applicable year of coverage for contracts arising from accepted registrations in the annual election period will be the following calendar year.
(2) Registration requests and coverage elections submitted after the applicable allowed time for submission will not be considered.
(3) During an annual election period, participating dairy operations may change coverage elections for the following calendar year.
(d) To receive margin protection coverage, separate registrations are required for each separately constituted dairy operation. If a dairy producer operates more than one separate and distinct operation, the producer registers each operation for each operation to be eligible for coverage.
(e) A participating dairy operation must elect, during the applicable annual election period and by using the form prescribed by CCC, the coverage level threshold and coverage percentage for that participating dairy operation for the applicable calendar year.
(1) Once the initial completed registration is submitted and approved by CCC, it cannot be cancelled by the participating dairy operation through December 31, 2018; however, each calendar year subsequent to the initial registration of the participating dairy operation, it may elect to change the coverage level threshold and coverage percentage, on a form prescribed by CCC, during the election period for the applicable subsequent calendar year. For dairy operations that want to continue coverage levels established in the prior calendar year, the Deputy Administrator will establish a procedure to allow such coverage levels to continue that will include the requirement of a timely payment of administrative fees and any premiums, if applicable.
(2) If the operation fails to file an update of its election during the annual election period, the coverage level will be reduced to the catastrophic level coverage, but such coverage will only be provided if the participating dairy operation pays the annual administrative fee for the relevant calendar year and submits the appropriate CCC forms.
(3) All producers in the participating dairy operation must agree to the coverage level threshold and coverage percentage elected by the dairy operation.
(f) By registering to participate or receive payment under MPP-Dairy, producers in the participating dairy operation certify to the accuracy and truthfulness of the information in their applications and supporting documentation.
(1) All producers in a participating dairy operation must sign and certify all submissions made under MPP-Dairy that relate to the level of coverage.
(2) All information provided is subject to verification. FSA may require a dairy operation to provide documentation to support all verifiable records. Furnishing the information is voluntary; however, without it MPP-Dairy benefits will not be approved. Providing a false certification to the Federal Government may be punishable by imprisonment, fines, other penalties, or sanctions.
(g) At the time the completed contract is submitted to FSA for the first year in which the dairy operation is to participate in MPP-Dairy, the dairy operation must also submit a separate form, as specified by CCC, to establish the production history for the dairy operation.
[79 FR 51462, Aug. 29, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 21704, Apr. 13, 2016]
§ 1430.105
Establishment and transfer of production history for a participating dairy operation.
(a) A participating dairy operation must provide all information required by FSA to establish the production history of the participating dairy operation for purposes of participating in MPP-Dairy. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section relating to new dairy operations, FSA will establish the production history for a dairy operation for margin protection as the highest annual milk marketings of the participating dairy operation during any one of the 2011, 2012, or 2013 calendar years.
(1) All producers in the participating dairy operation are required to provide adequate proof of the dairy operation's quantity of milk commercially marketed, to establish the production history for the dairy operation.
(2) All information provided is subject to verification, spot check and audit by FSA. If the dairy operation does not provide to the satisfaction of FSA documentation requested to substantiate the production history of the highest annual milk marketings for the participating dairy operation, then, the registration will not be approved.
(b) A participating dairy operation that did not produce and commercially market milk at least 12 full months as of February 7, 2014, will be considered a new dairy operation. To establish the production history for such a new dairy operation the new dairy operation is required to elect one of the following methods:
(1) The volume of the actual milk marketings for the months the dairy operation has been in operation, extrapolated to a yearly amount based on a national seasonally adjusted index, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, to account for differences in milk production during the year; or
(2) An estimate of the actual milk marketings of the dairy operation based on the herd size of the dairy operation relative to the national rolling herd average data published by the Secretary.
(c) If FSA determines that the new enterprise was formed for the purpose of circumventing MPP-Dairy provisions, including, but not limited to, reconstituting a dairy operation to receive additional benefits, or establishing new production history, that enterprise will not be considered a new dairy operation for the purpose of establishing production history.
(d) Once the production history of a participating dairy operation is established as specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, the production history will be adjusted upward by FSA only to reflect any increase in the national average milk production, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, except as provided by paragraph (g) of this section.
(e) The production history may be transferred from one dairy facility to another:
(1) Producers of a dairy operation may relocate the dairy operation to another location and the production history of the original operation may be transferred to the new location and may be added to production history at the new location that has not been transferred;
(2) Producers of a dairy operation may transfer ownership of a dairy operation with its associated production history, but if the producers start a new operation such new operation may
only be eligible for new production history if the new operation is otherwise not affiliated with participants in MPP-Dairy as described in § 1430.103(e); or
(3) Producers of more than one dairy operation that separately participate in MPP-Dairy may transfer the production histories of these dairy operations into a previously unregistered dairy operation.
(f) If CCC waives the obligation, under MPP-Dairy of a participating dairy operation due to death or retirement of the producer or of the permanent dissolution of the dairy operation or under other circumstances as determined by the Deputy Administrator, FSA may reestablish the production history provided that the production history has not been transferred.
(g) The established production history of a participating dairy operation may be adjusted upward once during the term of the contract for an intergenerational transfer based on the purchase of additional cows by the new family member(s). The increase in the established production history of the participating dairy operation will be determined on the basis of the national rolling herd average data for the current year in effect at the time of the intergenerational transfer and the quantity of the production history increase will be limited to an amount not more than 4 million pounds. The additional quantity of production history will receive coverage at the same elected coverage threshold and coverage percentage in effect for the participating dairy operation at the time the production history increase takes effect. Intergenerational transfers will not be allowed if the participating dairy operation's current annual production and the increase in herd size by the new member(s) is less than the operation's established production history.
(1) The dairy operation must notify FSA, using the appropriate CCC form(s), of the intergenerational transfer within 60 days of the purchase of the cows, except that for purchases made for intergenerational transfers occurring between January 1, 2016, and June 30, 2016, the dairy operation must notify FSA during the registration and annual coverage election period for coverage year 2017, established by the Deputy Administrator. The operation has the option of the additional production history taking effect beginning either with the consecutive 2-month period following notification, or the following January 1. If the additional production history takes effect between January 1 and August 31, the premium is due September 1, as specified in § 1430.107(a)(2). If the additional production history takes effect between September 1 and December 31, the premium is due immediately.
(2) All of the items specified in this paragraph must be documented in the notification to FSA and self-certified by the current and new member(s) for the intergenerational transfer to be considered eligible for additional production history, except that intergenerational transfers that occurred in 2014 and 2015 that otherwise meet the requirements of this paragraph will be considered during the registration and annual coverage election period for coverage year 2017 established by the Deputy Administrator for the purposes of adding the new member(s) to the participating dairy operation. However, there will not be any retroactive payments based on a production history increase for the intergenerational transfer. All of the following information is subject to verification by CCC. Refusal to allow CCC or any other agency of USDA to verify any information provided will result in disapproval of the intergenerational transfer.
(i) Documentation that the new member(s) joining the operation have purchased the dairy cows being added to the dairy operation;
(ii) Certification that each new member will have a share of the profits or losses from the dairy operation commensurate with such person's contributions to the dairy operation;
(iii) Certification that each new member has a significant equity ownership in the participating dairy operation at levels determined by the Deputy Administrator and announced on the FSA Web site,
www.fsa.usda.gov;
(iv) Certification that each new member is a lineal descendant or spouse thereof of a current member of the participating dairy operation;
(v) Agreement that each new member will contribute labor in the dairy operation at a minimum of 35 hours per week or have a plan for transition to full-time, subject to FSA county committee review and approval, if only working seasonally or part-time;
(vi) Certification that the dairy operation will be the principal source of non-investment earned income for each new member; and
(vii) Documentation of the participating dairy operation's current annual marketings as of the date of the intergenerational transfer.
[79 FR 51462, Aug. 29, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 21704, Apr. 13, 2016]
§ 1430.106
Administrative fees.
(a) Dairy operations must pay an initial administrative fee to CCC in the amount of $100 at the time of initial registration to participate in MPP-Dairy. Each approved participating dairy operation must also pay a $100 administrative fee each year through 2018. Annual administrative fees are due and payable to CCC through the administrative county FSA office no later than the close of business on the last day of the annual election period established by the Deputy Administrator for each applicable calendar year of margin protection coverage under MPP-Dairy. The administrative fee paid is non-refundable.
(b) The required annual administrative fee is per dairy operation. Therefore, multiple dairy producers in a single participating dairy operation are required to pay only one annual administrative fee for the participating dairy operation. Conversely, in the case of a dairy producer that operates more than one dairy operation, each participating dairy operation is required to pay a separate administrative fee annually.
(c) Failure to pay the administrative fee timely will result in loss of margin protection coverage for the applicable calendar year. The payment will still be due, as provided in § 1430.109.However, coverage for the applicable calendar year, at the catastrophic level only, may be reinstated if the administrative fee is paid late, effective the consecutive 2-month period following payment of the late-filed administrative fee plus applicable charges, if any, and submission to FSA of the appropriate CCC form.
[79 FR 51462, Aug. 29, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 21705, Apr. 13, 2016]
§ 1430.107
Buy-up coverage.
(a) For purposes of receiving buy-up MPP-Dairy coverage, a participating dairy operation may annually elect during an annual election period the following for the succeeding calendar year:
(1) A coverage level threshold for margins that, per cwt, is equal to one of the following: $4.50, $5, $5.50, $6, $6.50, $7, $7.50, or $8; and
(2) A percentage of coverage for the production history from 25 percent to 90 percent, in 5-percent increments.
(b) In the absence of any such election, the applicable coverage level provided, with no premium due, is catastrophic level coverage.
(c) A participating dairy operation that elects margin protection coverage above $4 is required to pay an annual premium based on coverage level and covered production history in addition to the administrative fee. Tier 1 applies to covered production history up to and including 4 million pounds; Tier 2 applies to covered production history above 4 million pounds.
(d) The premium per cwt of milk, based on the elected percentage of coverage of production history is specified in the following table.
Table to § 1430.107(
d
)
Coverage level
(margin)
Tier 1
premium per cwt (for the covered
production
history that is 4 million pounds or less)
Tier 2
premium per cwt (for the part of
covered
production
history over
4 million pounds)
$4.50
$0.010
$0.020
$5.00
0.025
0.040
$5.50
0.040
0.100
$6.00
0.055
0.155
$6.50
0.090
0.290
$7.00
0.217
0.830
$7.50
0.300
1.060
$8.00
0.475
1.360
(e) The annual premium due for a participating dairy operation is calculated by multiplying:
(1) The covered production history; and
(2) The premium per cwt of milk specified in paragraph (d) of this section for the coverage level elected by the dairy operation.
(f) In the case of a new dairy operation that first registers to participate in MPP-Dairy for a calendar year after the start of the calendar year, the participating dairy operation is required to pay a pro-rated premium for that calendar year based on the portion of the calendar year for which the participating dairy operation is eligible, and for which it purchases the coverage.
(g) A participating dairy operation is required to pay the annual premium calculated as specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section for the applicable calendar year, according to either of the following options:
(1) In total at time of submission of coverage election to FSA; or
(2) In total no later than September 1 of the applicable calendar year of coverage, unless otherwise specified by the Deputy Administrator.
(h) If the total premium is not paid for an applicable calendar year of coverage as specified in paragraph (g) of this section, the participating dairy operation will only be covered at catastrophic level coverage beginning with the September-October consecutive 2-month period and for the remainder of the applicable coverage year.
(i) Annual premium balances due CCC from a participating dairy operation for a calendar year of coverage must be paid in full no later than September 1 of the applicable calendar year or within a grace period determined by the Deputy Administrator, if applicable.
(j) A participating dairy operation with an unpaid premium balance for a calendar year of coverage will lose eligibility for buy-up coverage for the subsequent coverage year if the premium is not paid in full by the close of the coverage election period, and will have its current buy-up level coverage reduced to the catastrophic level, as provided in § 1430.109.
(k) The Deputy Administrator may waive the obligation to pay the premium, or refund the premium paid, of a participating dairy operation for a calendar year, in cases that include, but are not limited to, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, death, retirement, permanent dissolution of a participating dairy operation, or other circumstances determined by the Deputy Administrator.
(l) MPP-Dairy administrative fees and premiums are required to be paid by a negotiable instrument satisfactory to FSA and made payable to CCC and either mailed to or provided in person to the administrative county office or other location designated by FSA.
(m) In the case of an intergenerational transfer, the additional premium, if any, is due September 1 if the notification of the transfer is made to FSA between January 1 and September 1 of the applicable calendar year, and immediately, if the notification is made between September 2 and December 31, unless otherwise specified by the Deputy Administrator.
[79 FR 51462, Aug. 29, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 21705, Apr. 13, 2016]
§ 1430.108
Margin protection payments.
(a)
When do MPP-Dairy payments trigger?
An MPP-Dairy payment will be made to a participating dairy operation for any consecutive 2-month period when the average actual dairy production margin for the consecutive 2-month period falls below the coverage level threshold in effect for the participating dairy operation. Payments may trigger at either the elected buy-up level if purchased by the dairy operation, or the catastrophic level.
(b)
How will payments be calculated?
Whether payments trigger at the catastrophic level or at the buy-up level, the payments will be calculated as explained in this paragraph. If the dairy operation only has catastrophic coverage or buy-up coverage at 90 percent, there will be a single calculation. If the dairy operation purchased buy-up coverage at less than 90 percent and the catastrophic level also triggers a payment, then there will be two calculations to determine the payment—first the calculation for the buy-up coverage percentage and then the calculation for the catastrophic level percentage, which is the balance of the established production history up to 90 percent; the result of these two calculations will be added together to determine the
payment amount. Each calculation multiplies the payment rate times the coverage percentage times the production history divided by 6 as follows:
(1)
Payment rate.
The amount by which the coverage level exceeds the average actual dairy production margin for the 2-month period;
(2)
Coverage percentage.
The coverage percentage; and
(3)
Production history.
The production history of the dairy operation, divided by 6.
(c)
Example of payment for buy-up coverage of less than 90 percent when catastrophic level also triggers a payment.
If the dairy operation purchased buy-up level coverage at less than 90 percent of production history, then the dairy operation will receive a payment calculated at the buy-up level, plus the payment at the catastrophic level, if triggered, for the balance of 90 percent of its established production history. For example, if a producer purchased buy-up coverage at the 50 percent level, then that producer will also receive catastrophic level coverage for the next 40 percent for total coverage of 90 percent.
[81 FR 21706, Apr. 13, 2016]
§ 1430.109
Effect of failure to pay administrative fees or premiums.
(a) A participating dairy operation that fails to pay a required administrative fee or premium payment due upon application to MPP-Dairy or for a calendar year of coverage:
(1) Remains legally obligated to pay such administrative fee or premium, as applicable; and
(2) Upon such failure to pay when due after initial approved registration, loses coverage under MPP-Dairy until such administrative fee or premium is paid in full, and once paid, coverage will begin with the next consecutive 2-month period. Failure to pay the premium fee when due will reduce coverage to the catastrophic level for the September and October period and November and December period in that coverage year.
(b) CCC may take such actions as necessary to collect unpaid administrative fees and premium payments.
[79 FR 51462, Aug. 29, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 21706, Apr. 13, 2016]
§ 1430.110
Calculation of average feed cost and actual dairy production margins.
(a) Payments are made to a participating dairy operation as specified in this subpart only when, for a consecutive 2-month period, the calculated average actual dairy production margin is below the coverage level in effect for the participating dairy operation. That margin will be calculated on a national basis and is the amount by which for the relevant consecutive 2-month period, the all milk price exceeds the average feed cost for dairy producers. All calculations will be made on a per cwt basis. The average actual dairy production margin calculation applies to all participating dairy operations. The calculations are not made on an operation by operation basis or on their marketings.
(b) For calculating the national average feed cost that dairy operations use to produce a cwt of milk, the following three items will be added together:
(1) The product determined by multiplying 1.0728 by the price of corn per bushel;
(2) The product determined by multiplying 0.00735 by the price of soybean meal per ton; and
(3) The product determined by multiplying 0.0137 by the price of alfalfa hay per ton.
(c) To make those feed calculations, the Deputy Administrator on behalf of CCC will use the following full month data:
(1) For corn, the full month price received by farmers during the month in the United States as reported in the monthly Agricultural Prices report by USDA NASS;
(2) For soybean meal, the Central Illinois soybean meal price delivered by rail as reported in the USDA AMS Market News-Monthly; and
(3) For alfalfa hay, the full month price received during the month by farmers in the United States for alfalfa hay as reported in the monthly Agricultural Prices report by USDA NASS.
(d) The national average feed cost data for corn, soybean meal, and alfalfa hay used in the calculation of the national average feed cost to determine the actual dairy production margin for the relevant period, will be the data reported in the publication the following month. (For example, preliminary May prices for corn and soybean meal were reported in the May Agricultural Prices publication but full month May prices will be available in the June publication, and those will be the prices used).
(e) The actual dairy production margin for each consecutive 2-month period, will be calculated by subtracting:
(1) The average feed cost for that consecutive 2-month period, determined under paragraph (b) of this section; from
(2) The all-milk price for that consecutive 2-month period.
§ 1430.111
Relation to RMA's LGM-Dairy Program.
(a) A producer may participate in either MPP-Dairy through a dairy operation or the LGM-Dairy program operated by RMA, but not both.
(b) Producers in dairy operations participating in MPP-Dairy must certify at the time of registration and annually during each coverage election period that they will not have an LGM-Dairy policy in effect during the calendar year the dairy operation is requesting coverage.
(c) A participating dairy operation may be required to provide proof, to the satisfaction of FSA, of the cancellation or expiration of any previous LGM-Dairy policy.
[81 FR 21706, Apr. 13, 2016]
§ 1430.112
Multi-year contract.
(a) Participating dairy operations enrolled in MPP-Dairy are enrolled until December 31, 2018. As such, a participating dairy operation is obligated to pay initial and annual administrative fees and applicable premiums each succeeding calendar year following the date the contract is first entered into through December 31, 2018.
(b) Failure to pay administrative fees and premiums will result in the loss or reduction of coverage, as applicable, and the participating dairy operation remains obligated to pay such administrative fees and premiums as specified in § 1430.109.
(c) If a participating dairy operation goes out of business as described in § 1430.107(k) before December 31, 2018, the contract will be terminated immediately, except with respect to payments accrued to the benefit of the participating dairy operation under this subpart before such termination.
[79 FR 51462, Aug. 29, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 21706, Apr. 13, 2016]
§ 1430.113
Contract modifications.
(a) Producers in a participating dairy operation must notify FSA immediately of any changes that may affect their participation in MPP-Dairy under this subpart. Changes include, but are not limited to death of a producer on the contract, producer joining the operation, producer exiting the operation, relocation of the dairy operation, transfer of shares by sale or other transfer action, or dairy operation reconstitutions as provided in § 1430.114.
(b) Payment of any outstanding premium or administrative fee for a participating dairy operation must be paid in full before a transfer of shares by sale or any other change in producers on the contract originally submitted to FSA may take effect. Otherwise, producer changes will not be recognized until the following annual election period, and only if at that time all associated premiums and administrative fees from any previous calendar year of coverage have been paid in full.
§ 1430.114
Reconstitutions.
(a) A participating dairy operation under this subpart may reorganize or restructure itself in such a way that the constitution or makeup of its operation is reconstituted in another organization framework. However, any participating dairy operation that reorganizes or restructures after enrolling is subject to a review by FSA to determine if the operation was reorganized or restructured for the sole purpose of establishing an alternative production history for a participating dairy operation or was reorganized or restructured to otherwise circumvent any
MPP-Dairy provision under this subpart (including the tier system for premiums) or otherwise to prevent the accomplishment of the purpose of the program.
(b) A participating dairy operation that FSA determines has reorganized solely to establish a new production history or to circumvent the determination of applicable fees or premiums based on an established production history determined under this subpart will be considered to have failed to meet MPP-Dairy requirements and, in addition to other sanctions or penalties that may apply, will not be eligible for MPP-Dairy payments.
(c) Under no circumstance, except as approved by the Deputy Administrator or provided for in these regulations, will the reconstitution or restructure of a participating dairy operation change the determined production history for the operation. The Deputy Administrator may, however, adjust the production history of a participating dairy operation if there is a calculation error or if erroneous information has been supplied by or on behalf of the participating dairy operation.
§ 1430.115
Offsets and withholdings.
FSA may offset or withhold any amount due FSA under this subpart under the provisions of part 1403 of this chapter or any successor regulations, or any other authorities that may allow for collection action of that sort.
§ 1430.116
Assignments.
Any producer may assign a payment to be made under this subpart in accordance with part 1404 of this chapter or successor regulations as designated by the Secretary or as allowed by the Deputy Administrator in writing.
§ 1430.117
Appeals.
Any producer who is dissatisfied with a determination made pursuant to this subpart may request reconsideration or appeal of such determination under parts 11 or 780 of this title.
§ 1430.118
Misrepresentation and scheme or device.
(a) In addition to other penalties, sanctions or remedies as may apply, all or any part of a payment otherwise due a person or legal entity on all participating dairy operations in which the person or legal entity has an interest may be withheld or be required to be refunded if the person or legal entity fails to comply with the provisions of this subpart or adopts or participates in adopting a scheme or device designed to evade this subpart, or that has the effect of evading this part. Such acts may include, but are not limited to:
(1) Concealing information that affects an registration or coverage election;
(2) Submitting false or erroneous information; or
(3) Creating a business arrangement using rental agreements or other arrangements to conceal the interest of a person or legal entity in a dairy operation for the purpose of obtaining MPP-Dairy payments the individual or legal entity would otherwise not be eligible to receive. Indicators of such business arrangement include, but are not limited to the following:
(i) No milk is produced and commercially marketed by a participating dairy operation;
(ii) The participating dairy operation has no appreciable assets;
(iii) The only source of capital for the dairy operation is the MPP-Dairy payments; or
(iv) The represented dairy operation exists mainly for the receipt of MPP-Dairy payments.
(b) If the Deputy Administrator determines that a person or legal entity has adopted a scheme or device to evade, or that has the purpose of evading, the provisions of this subpart, such person or legal entity will be ineligible to receive MPP-Dairy payments in the year such scheme or device was adopted and the succeeding year.
(c) A person or legal entity that perpetuates a fraud, commits fraud, or participates in equally serious actions for the benefit of the person or legal entity, or the benefit of any other person or legal entity, in violation of the requirements of this subpart will be subject to a 5-year denial of all program benefits. Such other equally serious actions may include, but are not limited to:
(1) Knowingly engaging in, or aiding in the creation of a fraudulent document or statement;
(2) Failing to disclose material information relevant to the administration of the provisions of this subpart, or
(3) Engaging in any other actions of a person or legal entity determined by the Deputy Administrator to be designed, or intended to, circumvent the provisions of this subpart.
(d) Program payments and benefits will be denied on pro-rata basis:
(1) In accordance with the interest held by the person or legal entity in any other legal entity or joint operations; and
(2) To any person or legal entity that is a cash rent tenant on land owned or under control of a person or legal entity for which a determination of this section has been made.
§ 1430.119
Estates, trusts, and minors.
(a) MPP-Dairy documents executed by producers legally authorized to represent estates or trusts will be accepted only if such producers furnish evidence of the authority to execute such documents.
(b) A minor who is otherwise eligible for benefits under this subpart is also required to:
(1) Establish that the right of majority has been conferred on the minor by court proceedings or by law;
(2) Show that a guardian has been appointed to manage the minor's property and the applicable MPP-Dairy documents are executed by the guardian; or
(3) Furnish a bond under which the surety guarantees any loss incurred for which the minor would be liable had the minor been an adult.
§ 1430.120
Death, incompetency, or disappearance.
In the case of death, incompetency, disappearance or dissolution of a producer that is eligible to receive benefits under this subpart, such persons as are specified in part 707 of this title may receive such benefits, as determined appropriate by FSA.
§ 1430.121
Maintenance and inspection of records.
(a) Participating dairy operations are required to maintain accurate records and accounts that will document that they meet all eligibility requirements specified in this subpart, as may be requested by CCC or FSA. Such records and accounts are required to be retained for 3 years after the date of MPP-Dairy payments to the participating dairy operation. Destruction of the records 3 years after the date of payment will be at the risk of the party undertaking the destruction.
(b) A participating dairy operation is required to allow authorized representatives of CCC, the Secretary, or the Comptroller General of the United States to have access to the premises of the dairy operation in order to inspect the herd of cattle, examine, and make copies of the books, records, and accounts, and other written data as specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Any producer or dairy operation that does not comply with the provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, or that otherwise receives a payment for which it is not eligible, is liable for that payment and is required to repay it to FSA, with interest to run from the date of disbursement.
§ 1430.122
Refunds; joint and several liability.
(a) Any legal entity, including joint operations, joint ventures and partnerships, and any member of a legal entity determined to have knowingly participated in a scheme or device, or other such equally serious actions to evade, or that has the purpose of evading the provisions of this part, will be jointly and severally liable for any amounts determined to be payable as the result of the scheme or device, or other such equally serious actions, including amounts necessary to recover the payments.
(b) Any person or legal entity that cooperates in the enforcement of the provisions of this part may be partially or fully released from liability, as determined by the Executive Vice President, CCC.
(c) The provisions of this section will be applicable in addition to any liability that arises under a criminal or civil statute, regulation, or provision of law.
§ 1430.123
Violations of highly erodible and wetland conservation provisions.
The provisions of part 12 of this title apply to this part.
§ 1430.124
Violations regarding controlled substances.
The provisions of § 718.6 of this title apply to this part.

# Subpart B—Milk Income Loss Contract Program

# Source:
67 FR 64476, Oct. 18, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1430.200
Applicability.
(a) This subpart governs the Milk Income Loss Contract Program. This program provides financial assistance to dairy operations in connection with milk production that is sold in the commercial market.
§ 1430.201
Administration.
(a) This program is administered under the general supervision of the Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee, and shall be carried out by Farm Service Agency (FSA) State and county committees and employees.
(b) State and county committees, and their employees may not waive or modify any requirement of this subpart, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.
(c) The State committee shall take any action required when not taken by the county committee, require correction of actions not in compliance, or require the withholding of any action that is not in compliance with this subpart.
(d) The Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee, may determine any question arising under the program or reverse or modify any decision of the State or county committee.
(e) The Deputy Administrator, Farm Programs, FSA, may waive or modify program requirements where failure to meet such requirements does not adversely affect the operation of the Milk Income Loss Contract Program.
(f) A representative of CCC may execute Milk Income Loss Contracts and related documents under the terms and conditions determined and announced by CCC. Any document not under such terms and conditions, including any purported execution before the date authorized by CCC, shall be null and void.
§ 1430.202
Definitions.
The definitions in this section shall be applicable for all purposes of administering the Milk Income Loss Contract (MILC) program established by this subpart.
CCC
means the Commodity Credit Corporation of the Department.
Class I Milk
means milk, including milk components, classified as Class I milk under a Federal milk marketing order.
Contract application
means a Milk Income Loss Contract as executed on a form prescribed by CCC.
Contract application period
means the date established by the Deputy Administrator for producers to apply for program benefits.
County committee
means the FSA county committee.
County office
means the FSA office responsible for administering FSA programs to farms located in a specific area in a state.
Dairy operation
means any person or group of persons who as a single unit as determined by CCC, produce and market milk commercially produced from cows, and whose production facilities are located in the United States. In administering this program, for purposes of determining what is a “dairy operation” and its eligibility under this program, those determinations will be made in the same manner as was done for the Dairy Market Loss Assistance (DMLA) contracts in the State in which the dairy is located. New MILC operations, which is to say those operations that did not participate in the MILC program for marketings prior to FY 2008, must be unaffiliated with any other DMLA or MILC operations.
Department or USDA
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
Deputy Administrator
means the Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs (DAFP), FSA or a designee.
Eligible production
means milk that was produced at a time relevant to this program by cows in the United States and marketed commercially by a producer in a participating State.
Farm Service Agency or FSA
means the Farm Service Agency of the Department.
Federal Milk Marketing Order
means an order issued under section 8c of the Agricultural Adjustment Act (7 U.S.C. 608c), reenacted with amendments by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937.
Fiscal Year or FY
means the year beginning October 1 and ending the following September 30. Fiscal years will be designated for this part by year by reference to the calendar year in which it ends. For example, FY 2009 is from October 1, 2008, through September 30, 2009 (inclusive).
Hundredweight or cwt.
means 100 pounds.
Marketed commercially
means sold to the market to which the dairy operation normally delivers whole milk and receives a monetary amount.
MILC
means the Milk Income Loss Contract program or the form upon which CCC and the producer agree to the terms of the payment to be made under the MILC program.
Milk handler
means the marketing agency to or through which the producer commercially markets whole milk.
Milk marketing
means a marketing of milk for which there is a verifiable sales or delivery record of milk marketed for commercial use.
Participating State
means each of the 50 States in the United States of America, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any other territory or possession of the United States.
Payment pounds
means the pounds of milk production for which an operation is eligible to be paid under this subpart.
Producer
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, estate, trust association, cooperative, or other business enterprise or other legal entity who is, or whose members are, a citizen of, or legal resident alien in the United States, and who directly or indirectly, as determined by the Secretary, shares in the risk of producing milk, and makes contributions (including land, labor, management, equipment, or capital) to the dairy farming operation of the individual or entity that are at least commensurate with the share of the individual or entity of the proceeds of this operation.
United States
means the 50 States of the United Sates of America, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any other territory or possession of the United States.
Verifiable production records
means evidence that is used to substantiate the amount of production marketed and that can be verified by CCC through an independent source.
[67 FR 64476, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 19622, Apr. 17, 2006; 73 FR 73776, Dec. 4, 2008]
§ 1430.203
Eligibility.
To be eligible to receive payments under this subpart, a dairy operation must:
(a) Have produced milk in the United States and commercially marketed the milk produced anytime during the period of October 1, 2007, through September 30, 2012;
(b) Enter into a MILC during the contract application period;
(c) Agree to all terms and conditions in the MILC and those that are otherwise contained in this subpart and comply with instructions issued by CCC;
(d) Provide proof of monthly milk production commercially marketed by all persons in the dairy operation during the contract period, to determine the total pounds of milk that will be converted to hundredweight (cwt.) used for payment;
(e) Submit timely production evidence according to § 1430.209;
(f) Be actively engaged in the business of producing and marketing agricultural products anytime during the period of October 1, 2007, through September 30, 2012;
(g) Meet all adjusted gross income eligibility requirements of part 1400 of
this chapter as regards any person or entity seeking to receive payment under this part. No person or entity may, generally, receive any payment for FY 2009 marketings and subsequent marketings if their nonfarm yearly income for the relevant base period for the relevant marketings as determined under the adjusted gross income rules (as in effect when the payment is sought) is over $500,000 as determined under this subpart. Further, for entities an otherwise due payment will be reduced commensurately to the extent that any person with an interest in the entity, as determined under the adjusted gross income rules had such income over that limit for the relevant period;
(h) Have submitted a contract during the applicable contract period for FYs 2008 through 2012:
(1) Except for 2009, and subject to the start month provision of § 1430.205, must have for any fiscal year or month for which payment is sought to be paid submitted the FY 2008 through 2012 contract before the end of that fiscal year or month or
(2) For FY 2008 payments, if payments are generated under this part for that fiscal year, must have submitted a contract for the FY 2008 through 2012 program by October 1, 2009 and for FY 2009 the contract must have been submitted by the month for which payment is first sought except to the extent that § 1430.205 explicitly permits the operation to pick a start month in advance of the month in which the contract is submitted; and
(i) Must not, if it did not participate in the preceding MILC program for fiscal years prior to FY 2008, be affiliated with any other dairy operation.
[67 FR 64476, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 19622, Apr. 17, 2006; 73 FR 73766, Dec. 4, 2008]
§ 1430.204
Requesting benefits.
(a) A request for benefits or contract application, under this subpart must be submitted on a form as prescribed by the Agency. Contract applications shall be submitted to the FSA office serving the county where the dairy operation is located. Contract applications must be received by FSA by the close of business on the date established by the Deputy Administrator. Contract applications received after such date shall be disapproved.
(b) The dairy operation requesting MILC benefits must certify the accuracy and truthfulness of the information in their contract application. All information provided is subject to verification by CCC. Refusal to allow CCC or any other agency of the Department to verify any information provided will result in disapproval.
(c) Contract applications will be approved by execution by FSA and producer of a MILC. All persons who share in the risk of a dairy operation's total production must sign and certify the contract application.
§ 1430.205
Selection of starting month.
(a) A dairy operation that enters into a MILC contract with CCC must designate the starting month for each fiscal year for the calculation of payments and pound limits for the operation. Once a start month is chosen for a fiscal year the corresponding month will be the start month for each subsequent fiscal year unless changed by an affirmative request in writing on a form approved by CCC. The production start month must be selected on or before the 14th of the month before the month for which payment is sought. If such date falls on a weekend, the start month selection must be made on the last business day preceding the weekend. A dairy operation cannot select as the start month for payment a month which:
(1) Has already begun, except as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section;
(2) Has already passed; or
(3) During which no milk production was produced by the dairy operation.
(b) For FY 2009, if the operation signs its FY 2008 through 2012 MILC contract within 30 days of the beginning of the application period it can pick any preceding FY 2009 month as its start month for that period or can use the normal rule of paragraph (c) of this section to pick the start month.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the start month for a fiscal year may only be
(1) For the fiscal year in which the contract is submitted, the month the contract is submitted or
(2) For a fiscal year that has not yet begun, any month, provided that a month may not be selected after the 14th of the preceding month.
(d) Dairy operations may change the production start month on or before the 14th day of the month previously selected.
(e) If a change of the production starting month is not made by the dates required by paragraph (d) of this section, the MILC production starting month cannot be changed until the next fiscal year. If the selected MILC production starting month is never modified, it will remain the same throughout the duration of the contract.
(f) MILC payments will be made consecutively to the dairy operation on a monthly basis after the production starting month has been designated until the earlier of the following:
(1) Payment quantity is reached in accordance with § 1430.207; or
(2) The end of the applicable fiscal year.
(g)(1) MILC production start month selections made during the signup period designated by CCC may be made as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, otherwise MILC production start month selections must be made in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. If a payment rate is not in effect during the production start month selected by the dairy operation, payments to the dairy operation will be issued based on the next consecutive month with a payment rate in effect following the MILC production start month selected by the dairy operation. Production in months in which the pay formula does not produce a payment will not count against the fiscal year's poundage limit for the operation.
(2) Dairy operations with MILC production start months that begin with the month a MILC contract is submitted to FSA or that begin with the first month of the fiscal year with an effective payment rate will receive payments made by CCC consecutively on a monthly basis, if otherwise provided for in this part, until the earlier of the following:
(i) The maximum payment quantity for the fiscal year or month is reached as determined in accordance with § 1430.207 or
(ii) The end of the applicable fiscal year.
(h) All producers involved in the dairy operation must agree to the month designated. The dairy operation assumes the risk of not reaching the maximum payment quantity based on the month selected by the dairy operation. Payments will not be issued for past months for the sole purpose of reaching the maximum payment quantity.
[71 FR 19622, Apr. 17, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 73766, Dec. 4, 2008]
§ 1430.206
[Reserved]
§ 1430.207
Dairy operation payment quantity.
(a) The applicant's payment quantity of milk will be determined by CCC, based on the quantity of milk that was produced and commercially marketed by each dairy operation per fiscal year.
(b) The maximum quantity of eligible production for which dairy operations, per separate and distinct operation, are eligible for payment per fiscal year under this subpart will be:
(1) 2,400,000 pounds (24,000 cwt.) for FY 2008 (October 1, 2007, through September 30, 2008);
(2) 2,985,000 pounds (29,850 cwt.) for FY 2009 (October 1, 2008 through September 30, 2009), FY 2010 (October 1, 2009, through September 30, 2010), FY 2011 (October 1, 2010, through September 30, 2011) and FY 2012 (October 1, 2011, through September 30, 2012), provided further an operation may receive payment for September, 2012, marketings only if its pre-September FY 2012 marketings did not exceed 2,400,000 pounds in which case new marketings that would not put the operation's FY 2012 marketings over 2,400,000 pounds will be eligible for payments otherwise permitted in this rule.
(c) In accordance with these regulations, the Deputy Administrator will determine what is a separate and distinct operation. That decision will be final
[67 FR 64476, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 73767, Dec. 4, 2008]
§ 1430.208
Payment rate and dairy operation payment.
(a) Payments under this subpart may be made to dairy operations when the Boston Class I milk price under the applicable Federal milk marketing order is below $16.94 per cwt. No payments will be made to dairy operations for marketings during the months that the Boston Class I milk price under the applicable milk marketing order is equal to or exceeds $16.94.
(b) A per-hundredweight payment rate will be determined for the applicable month by:
(1) Subtracting from $16.94 the Class I milk price per cwt. in Boston;
(2) Multiplying the difference by 34 percent for marketings during the period beginning on October 1, 2007, and ending on September 30, 2008;
(3) Multiplying the difference by 45 percent for marketings during the period beginning on October 1, 2008, and ending on August 31, 2012; and
(4) Multiplying the difference by 34 percent for marketings in September 2012.
(c) The payment rate as calculated as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, will be adjusted to compensate for feed prices when the National Average Dairy Feed Ration Cost for a month is greater than the levels set in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section. The National Average Dairy Feed Ration Cost per cwt. for each month will be calculated using the same procedures used to calculate the feed components of the estimated price of 16 percent Mixed Dairy Feed per pound noted on page 33 of the USDA monthly Agricultural Prices publication (including the data and factors noted in footnote 4). The payment rate adjustment for Entire Month feed prices will be determined by increasing $16.94 by the percentage that is 45 percent of the percentage by which the National Average Dairy Feed Ration Cost exceeds $7.35 per cwt. (except that $7.35 will be $9.50 for September 2012 marketings.)
(d) Each eligible dairy operation payment will be calculated, as determined by the Secretary, by:
(1) Converting whole pounds of milk to hundredweight and
(2) Multiplying the payment rate determined in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section by the quantity of eligible production marketed by the operation during the applicable month as determined according to § 1430.205 and other provisions of this subpart.
(3) Payments to dairy operations will be based on calculated payment rates rounded seven places to the right of the decimal.
(e) Payments under this subpart may be made to a dairy operation only up to the maximum production limitations set in § 1430.207(b) of eligible production per applicable fiscal year.
(f) Dairy operations receiving benefits under this subpart, will receive earned payments on a monthly basis according to the MILC contract, to the extent practicable, not later than 60 days after the later of production evidence and all supporting documents for the applicable month are received by CCC or the entire month National Average Dairy Feed Ration Cost is made available by USDA, as applicable. Payments issued by CCC more than 60 days after the later of all production evidence and supporting documentation are received by CCC or the entire month National Average Dairy Feed Ration Cost is made available by USDA, whichever is later, will be subject to prompt payment interest as allowed by law. However, CCC will endeavor where possible to make payments within 60 days of the end of the marketing month.
[67 FR 64476, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 19623, Apr. 17, 2006; 72 FR 48231, Aug. 23, 2007; 73 FR 73767, Dec. 4, 2008]
§ 1430.209
Proof of market loss production.
(a) A dairy operation entering into a MILC must, based on instructions issued by the Deputy Administrator, provide adequate proof of the dairy operation's eligible production during the months of each fiscal year designated in the MILC. The dairy operation must also provide proof that the eligible production was commercially marketed during the months beginning October 1, 2007, and ending September 30, 2012. Evidence of milk production claimed for payment shall be provided to CCC with supporting documentation under paragraph (b) of this section. All information provided is subject to
verification, spot check and audit by FSA. Further verification information may be obtained from the dairy operation's milk handler or marketing cooperative if deemed necessary by CCC to verify provided information. Refusal to allow a representative of CCC or any other agency of the Department of Agriculture to verify any information provided will result in a determination of ineligibility for benefits under this subpart.
(b) Eligible dairy operations marketing milk during the period specified in the MILC shall provide any available supporting documents from all producers in the dairy operation to assist CCC in verifying that the dairy operation produced and marketed milk commercially from the designated starting month and thereafter. Examples of supporting documentation include, but are not limited to: milk marketing payment stubs, tank records, milk handler records, daily milk marketings, copies of any payments received as compensation from other sources, or any other documents available to confirm the production and production history of the dairy operation. Producers may also be required to allow CCC to examine the herd of cattle as production evidence. If supporting documentation requested is not presented to CCC or FSA, the request for MILC benefits will be disapproved.
[67 FR 64476, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 19623, Apr. 17, 2006; 73 FR 73767, Dec. 4, 2008]
§ 1430.210
MILC agents.
(a) MILC benefits may be disbursed by a dairy marketing cooperative that serves special groups or communities, such as an Amish or Mennonite community. Producers in such groups in a dairy operation may authorize an agent of a dairy cooperative or milk handler affiliated with such cooperative to obtain and disburse MILC benefits to the dairy operation.
(b) The authorized MILC agent must on behalf of the dairy operation do the following:
(1) Obtain an acceptable power of attorney or acceptable equivalent for the producers of the dairy operation that authorizes the agent to enter into an MILC contract;
(2) Enter into a written agreement with CCC for approval to act as a MILC agent on a form prescribed by CCC;
(3) Provide the dairy operation's monthly production evidence to the appropriate FSA office;
(4) Disburse payment to the dairy operation in the producer's monthly milk check or in an otherwise approved manner.
§ 1430.211
Duration of contracts.
(a) Except as provided in § 1430.205, or elsewhere in this subpart, a MILC entered into by producers in a dairy operation shall cover eligible production marketed by the producers in the dairy operation during the period beginning with the first day of the month the producers in the dairy operation enter into an MILC and ending on September 30, 2012.
(b) If a dairy goes out of business during the contract period, the MILC will be terminated immediately, except as applicable to earned payments.
[67 FR 64476, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 19623, Apr. 17, 2006; 73 FR 73768, Dec. 4, 2008]
§ 1430.212
Contract modifications and statutory changes in program.
(a) Producers in a dairy operation must notify FSA immediately of any changes that may affect their MILC. Changes include, but are not limited to changes to the starting month to receive payment for the next fiscal year, death of producer on the contract, new member joining the operation, member exiting the operation, transfer of shares by sale or other transfer action, or farm reconstitutions undertaken in accordance with § 1430.213.
(b) CCC may modify an MILC if such modifications are desirable to carry out purposes of the program or to facilitate the program's administration.
(c) Payments otherwise due under this subpart or the program will be adjusted or denied to the extent provided for by a statutory change in program eligibilities or requirements of any kind irrespective of whether the program contract preceded the statutory change. Operations will be given the
option of accepting the changes or terminating the contract.
[67 FR 64476, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 73768, Dec. 4, 2008]
§ 1430.213
Reconstitutions.
(a) A dairy operation receiving MILC benefits may reorganize or restructure such that the constitution or makeup of its operation is reconstituted in another organizational framework. However, any operation that reorganizes or restructures after October 1, 2007, is subject to a review by FSA to determine if the operation was reorganized or restructured for the sole purpose of receiving multiple or additional MILC payments.
(b) A dairy operation that FSA determines has reorganized solely to receive additional MILC payments will be in violation of its contract and dealt in accordance with § 1430.214.
(c) If during the contract period a change in the dairy operation occurs, the modification to the MILC will not take effect until the first day of the fiscal year following the month FSA received notification of the changes. Changes include but are not limited to any producer affiliated with a dairy operation that has an approved MILC with CCC forming a new dairy operation that is not formed solely to receive additional MILC payments.
(d) Changes resulting in the following will take effect immediately upon notification to CCC, in accordance with § 1430.212:
(1) Increases or reductions of shareholders or producers and their corresponding share amounts in the dairy operation; or
(2) Purchases of a new dairy operation by a producer or producers not affiliated with an existing dairy operation that has an approved MILC with CCC.
[67 FR 64476, Oct. 18, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 73768, Dec. 4, 2008]
§ 1430.214
Violations.
(a) If producers in a dairy operation violates the MILC or the requirements of this subpart, CCC may:
(1) Terminate the MILC for the remainder of the fiscal year in which the violation occurs, and allow the producer to retain any payments received under the contract; or
(2) Allow the MILC to remain in effect and require the producer to repay a portion of the payments received commensurate with the violation's severity, as CCC determines.
(3) If the MILC is terminated under this section, the participant shall forfeit all rights to further MILC benefits and shall refund all or part of the payments received as CCC determines appropriate.
(4) A producer or operation with a violation, as determined by CCC, shall refund all MILC funds disbursed under of this part. The remedies provided in this subpart shall be in addition to other civil, criminal, or administrative remedies which may apply.
(b) A MILC is violated by the following actions:
(1) Failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the MILC and addendum;
(2) Reconstitutions of the dairy operation for the sole purpose of receiving multiple program benefits;
(3) Failure to comply with highly erodible land conservation and wetland provisions of this 7 CFR part 12 or their successor regulations;
(4) Failure to meet the definition of a dairy operation according to § 1430.202;
(5) Any action that tends to defeat the purpose of the program, as CCC determines.
(c) The Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs (DAFP) of the Farm Service Agency may terminate any MILC by mutual agreement upon request of the participant if DAFP determines that termination is in the best interest of the public.
(d) The DAFP may determine that failure of the dairy operation to perform the MILC does not warrant termination and may require the participant to refund part of the payments received or accept adjustments in the payment as the DAFP determines to be appropriate.
§ 1430.215
[Reserved]
§ 1430.216
Contracts not in conformity with regulations.
If it is discovered that an MILC contract does not comply with this subpart as the result of a misunderstanding by someone who has signed the contract, the contract may be modified by mutual agreement. If the parties to the MILC cannot reach agreement for such modification, it shall be terminated and all payments paid or payable under the contract shall be forfeited or refunded to CCC, except as may otherwise be allowed under § 1430.214.
§ 1430.217
Offsets and withholdings.
CCC may offset or withhold any amount due CCC under this subpart under the provisions of part 1403 of this chapter or any successor regulations.
§ 1430.218
Assignments.
Any producer may assign a payment to be made under this part in accordance with part 1404 of this chapter or successor regulations as designated by the Department.
§ 1430.219
Appeals.
Any producer who is dissatisfied with a determination made pursuant to this subpart may request reconsideration or appeal of such determination under part 11 or 780 of this title.
§ 1430.220
Misrepresentation and scheme or device.
(a) A dairy operation shall be ineligible for the MILC program if FSA determines that it knowingly:
(1) Adopted a scheme or device that tends to defeat the purpose of this program;
(2) Made any fraudulent representation; or
(3) Misrepresented any fact affecting a determination under this program. CCC will take steps deemed necessary to protect the interests of the government.
(b) Any funds disbursed to a producer or operation engaged in a misrepresentation, scheme, or device, shall be refunded to CCC. The remedies provided in this subpart shall be in addition to other civil, criminal, or administrative remedies which may apply.
§ 1430.221
Estates, trusts, and minors.
(a) Program documents executed by producers legally authorized to represent estates or trusts will be accepted only if such producers furnish evidence of the authority to execute such documents.
(b) A minor who is otherwise eligible for assistance under this part must also:
(1) Establish that the right of majority has been conferred on the minor by court proceedings or by statute;
(2) Show that a guardian has been appointed to manage the minor's property and the applicable program documents are executed by the guardian; or
(3) Furnish a bond under which the surety guarantees any loss incurred for which the minor would be liable had the minor been an adult.
§ 1430.222
Death, incompetency, or disappearance.
In the case of death, incompetency, disappearance or dissolution of a producer that is eligible to receive benefits under this part, such persons as are specified in part 707 of this title may receive such benefits, as determined appropriate by FSA.
§ 1430.223
Maintenance and inspection of records.
(a) Producers approved for benefits under this program must maintain accurate records and accounts that will document that they meet all eligibility requirements specified herein, as may be requested by CCC or FSA. Such records and accounts must be retained for 3 years after the date of payment to the dairy operation under this program. Destruction of the records 3 years after the date of payment shall be the risk of the party undertaking the destruction.
(b) At all times during regular business hours, authorized representatives of CCC, the Department, or the Comptroller General of the United States shall have access to the premises of the dairy operation in order to inspect the herd of cattle, examine, and make copies of the books, records, and accounts,
and other written data as specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Any funds disbursed pursuant to this part to any producers or operation who does not comply with the provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, or who otherwise receives a payment for which they are not eligible, shall be refunded with interest.
§ 1430.224
Refunds; joint and several liability.
(a) In the event of an error on a MILC application, a failure to comply with any term, requirement, or condition for payment arising under the MILC application, or this subpart, all improper payments shall be refunded to CCC together with interest from the date payment was received through the date the refund is received by CCC.
(b) All producers signing a dairy operation's application for payment as having an interest in the operation shall be jointly and severally liable for any refund, including related charges, that is determined to be due for any reason under the terms and conditions of the contract application and addendum or this part for such operation.
§ 1430.225
Violations of highly erodible land and wetland conservation provisions.
The provisions of part 12 of this title apply to this part.
§ 1430.226
Violations regarding controlled substances.
The provisions of § 718.11 of this title apply to this part.

# Subpart C—Dairy Product Donation Program

# Source:
79 FR 51468, Aug. 29, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1430.300
Administration, purpose, and funding.
(a) The regulations in this subpart apply for the Dairy Product Donation Program (DPDP). DPDP is authorized by section 1431 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Pub. L. 113-79, 7 U.S.C. 9071).
(b) DPDP is designed to address low dairy producer margins, through periodic purchases of dairy products, as specified in this subpart. Dairy products purchased for DPDP will be used to provide nutritional assistance to members of low-income groups.
(c) The purchase aspect of DPDP will be operated for the Secretary of Agriculture and for the Commodity Credit Corporation by the Farm Service Agency (FSA) under the direction of the FSA's Deputy Administrator for Commodity Operations. Purchases are subject to the terms and conditions in FSA's purchase announcements. The distribution of products purchased through DPDP will be operated for the Secretary under the direction of the Food and Nutrition Service.
§ 1430.301
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart, the following terms and acronyms apply:
2014 Farm Bill
means the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Pub. L. No. 113-79).
Actual dairy production margin
is as defined in subpart A of this part.
AMS
means the Agricultural Marketing Service of the USDA.
CCC
means the Commodity Credit Corporation.
Deputy Administrator
means the Farm Service Agency Deputy Administrator for Commodity Operations.
Distribution
means the provision of products purchased through DPDP to low-income groups through FNS food distribution programs in accordance with those program regulations and 7 CFR part 250.
DPDP
means the Dairy Product Donation Program.
FNS
means the Food and Nutrition Service of the USDA.
FSA
means the Farm Service Agency of the USDA.
FSA Administrator
means Administrator of the Farm Service Agency, USDA.
Hundredweight or cwt
means 100 pounds.
MPP-Dairy
means the Margin Protection Program for Dairy provided for in subpart A of this part.
NDM
means non-fat dry milk.
Recipient agencies
means agencies or organizations that are eligible to receive donated product for distribution under this subpart.
USDA
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
§ 1430.302
Commencement and termination of DPDP purchases.
(a) DPDP purchases commence only if approved by the FSA Administrator under the provisions of this subpart. The FSA Administrator will approve DPDP purchases only if the actual dairy production margin has been $4 or less per cwt for each of the preceding 2 months. The actual dairy production margin will be calculated as specified in § 1430.110. The following chart shows an example of the timing for the determination of DPDP purchases.
DPDP Purchase Determination Example Based on Dairy Production Margins and 3-Month Maximum for Purchases
1
2 Consecutive months
Calculate margin for 2 consecutive months
2
If both margins below $4 per cwt in the 2 consecutive months
3-Month maximum consideration
If either margin above $4 per cwt in the 2 consecutive months
January and February
March
Dairy product purchases
3
begin in April
1st month of purchases
No purchases.
February and March
April
Dairy product purchases
3
begin in May
2nd consecutive month of purchases
No purchases.
March and April
May
Dairy product purchases
3
begin in June
3rd consecutive month of purchases
No purchases.
April and May
June
4
No purchases; terminated after 3 consecutive months
3-month maximum reached (1st month off)
No purchases.
May and June
July
No purchases; terminated after 3 consecutive months
3-month maximum reached (2nd month off)
No purchases.
June and July
August
No purchases; terminated after 3 consecutive months
3-month maximum reached (3rd month off)
No purchases.
July and August
September
Dairy product purchases
3
begin in October
1st month of purchases
No purchases.
August and September
October
Dairy product purchases
3
begin in November
2nd consecutive month of purchases
No purchases.
September and October
November
Dairy product purchases
3
begin in December
3rd consecutive month of purchases
No purchases.
October and November
December
No purchases; terminated after 3 consecutive months
3-month maximum reached (1st month off)
No purchases.
November and December
January
No purchases; terminated after 3 consecutive months
3-month maximum reached (1st month off)
No purchases
1
This example assumes that purchases begin in January. In reality, DPDP can—depending on prices and margin triggers—begin on September 1, 2014, which is the start of MPP-Dairy.
2
The full month data for a given month is available at the end of the following month. For example, January data are not available until the end of February.
2
Purchases cannot begin unless domestic cheddar cheese or nonfat dry milk prices are at certain differentials relative to world prices.
3
In the example, June is the 3rd month of consevutive purchases. June would not be calculated as a potential trigger month, but it is shown on the chart to clearly show the concept of 3 months on and 3 months off for purchases. If purchases are taking place during a month, that month cannot be used as a trigger month for a future purchase period.
(b) DPDP purchases terminate and are not reinstated until the condition specified in paragraph (a) of this section is again met, whenever any one of the following occurs:
(1) If purchases were made for the preceding 3 months, even if the actual dairy production margin remains $4 or less per cwt of milk.
(2) If the actual dairy production margin has been greater than $4 per cwt of milk for the immediately preceding month.
(3) If the actual dairy production margin has been $4 or less, but more than $3, per cwt for the immediately preceding month and during the same month —
(i) The price in the United States for cheddar cheese was more than 5 percent above the world price, or
(ii) The price in the United States for non-fat dry milk (NDM) was more than 5 percent above the world price of skim milk powder.
(4) If the actual dairy production margin has been $3 or less per cwt of milk for the immediately preceding month and during the same month —
(i) The price in the United States for cheddar cheese was more than 7 percent above the world price; or
(ii) The price in the United States for NDM was more than 7 percent above the world price of skim milk powder.
(c) Purchases will terminate beginning with the first day of any month that does not qualify for DPDP purchases.
(d) For calculations under paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section, the FSA Administrator may use data from a single or multiple locales or markets, including weighted averages, in consultation with AMS or other USDA agencies.
§ 1430.303
DPDP purchases.
(a) DPDP purchases will be made only for those months that the FSA Administrator has determined meet all the requirements specified in § 1430.302. The purchases are subject to DPDP requirements including price and quantity restrictions specified in this subpart.
(b) The Secretary has the authority to determine purchase and distribution methods for dairy product purchases and distribution. Unless otherwise determined by the Secretary, this authority is delegated to the Deputy Administrator in consultation with FNS.
(c) FSA and FNS will determine the types and quantities of products that will be purchased, in consultation with public or private nonprofit organizations and State and local agencies eligible to receive such products.
(d) The FSA Administrator will determine the quantity of purchases to be made for a qualifying month and will consider the results of any consultations in determining the quantity to be purchased. In making the determination, the FSA Administrator will also take into account a number of factors, including, but not limited to, dairy product market conditions, logistical considerations involved in the efficient and immediate distribution of the dairy products, the potential effect on markets and margins, time constraints of DPDP, and the cost effectiveness of the purchases. Approved quantities for a month will not exceed the amount of product that may be effectively distributed without waste.
(e) Purchases may be approved for a qualifying month to the extent that the purchase by FSA can reasonably be expected to be completed in that calendar month and the products delivered to recipient agencies within 90 days.
(f) DPDP purchases cannot be stored by or for CCC, and CCC cannot incur storage costs on behalf of recipient agencies for the dairy products.
(g) The purchase price of products will be the prevailing market price for like dairy products for private buyers as determined by the Deputy Administrator. That price may be, if approved by the Deputy Administrator, the price determined by the normal procurement methods used to procure foods for FNS domestic food assistance programs, if the dairy products are obtained that way.
§ 1430.304
Distribution of DPDP purchased products.
(a) Purchased products will be distributed to private and public nonprofit organizations eligible to receive donated foods for distribution to low-income groups through FNS' food distribution programs as specified in FNS program regulations and the requirements in 7 CFR part 250.
(b) Public and private nonprofit organizations receiving donated dairy products under this section will be responsible for the proper handling and distribution of such products in accordance with FNS program regulations, 7 CFR part 250, and FNS guidance and instructions.
(c) A private or nonprofit organization agency receiving donated products under this section which improperly distributes or uses such product or causes loss of or damage to such product, will be subject to recovery of losses or other corrective action in accordance with FNS program regulations, 7 CFR part 250.

# Subpart D—Dairy Margin Coverage Program

# Source:
84 FR 28176, June 18, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1430.400
Purpose.
The regulations in this subpart apply to the Dairy Margin Coverage (DMC)
Program that replaces the Margin Protection Program for Dairy (MPP-Dairy) in subpart A. The purpose of DMC is to provide eligible dairy producers risk protection against low margins resulting from a combination of low milk prices and high feed costs.
§ 1430.401
Administration.
(a) The DMC Program is administered by the Farm Service Agency (FSA) under the general supervision of the Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee, and will be carried out by FSA State and county committees and employees.
(b) FSA State and county committees, and their employees may not waive or modify any requirement of this subpart, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.
(c) The State committee will take any action required when not taken by the county committee, require correction of actions not in compliance, or require the withholding of any action that is not in compliance with this subpart.
(d) The Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee, may determine any question arising under the program or reverse or modify any decision of the State or county committee.
(e) The Deputy Administrator, Farm Programs, FSA, may waive or modify non-statutory program deadlines when failure to meet such deadline does not adversely affect the operation of the DMC Program.
(f) A representative of CCC may execute a contract for participation in the DMC Program and related documents under the terms and conditions determined and announced by the Deputy Administrator on behalf of CCC. Any document not under such terms and conditions, including any purported execution before the date authorized by CCC, will be null and void.
§ 1430.402
Definitions.
The definitions in this section apply for all purposes of administering the DMC Program.
Actual dairy production margin
means the difference between the all-milk price and the average feed cost, as calculated under § 1430.411. If the calculation would produce a negative number, the margin is considered to be zero.
Adjusted base production history
means the production history determined under this subpart for a participating dairy operation with production of less than 5 million pounds that is adjusted according to this subpart.
Administrative county office
means the county FSA office designated to make determinations, handle official records, and issue payments for the producer in accordance with 7 CFR part 718.
All-milk price
means the national average price received, per hundredweight of milk, by dairy operations for all milk sold to dairy plants and milk dealers in the United States, as determined by the Secretary.
AMS
means the Agricultural Marketing Service of USDA.
Annual election period for DMC
means the period, each calendar year, established by the Deputy Administrator, for a dairy operation to register to participate in DMC for the following coverage year, pay associated administrative fees, and make coverage elections for an applicable calendar year.
Average feed cost
means the national average cost of feed used by a dairy operation to produce a hundredweight of milk, as determined under the provisions of this subpart.
Beginning farmer or rancher
means an individual or entity who has both not operated a farm or ranch, or who has operated a farm or ranch for not more than 10 consecutive years; and materially and substantially participates in the operation of the farm or ranch. For legal entities to be considered a beginning farmer or rancher, all members must be related by blood or marriage; and all the members must be beginning farmers or ranchers.
Buy up coverage
means dairy margin coverage for a margin protection level above $4 per hundredweight of milk.
Calendar year
means the year beginning with January 1 and ending the following December 31.
Catastrophic level coverage
means $4 per cwt margin protection coverage and a coverage percentage of 95 percent, with no premium assessed.
CCC
means the Commodity Credit Corporation of USDA.
Commercially marketed
means selling whole milk to either the market to which the dairy operation normally delivers or other similar markets and receives monetary compensation.
Contract
means the terms and conditions to participate in the DMC Program as executed on a form prescribed by CCC and required to be completed by the producers in the dairy operation and accepted by CCC, including any contract modifications made in an annual election period before coverage for the applicable calendar year commences.
Covered production history
is equal to the production history of the operation multiplied by the coverage percentage selected by the participating dairy operation.
County committee
means the FSA county committee.
County office
means the FSA office responsible for administering FSA programs for farms located in a specific area in a state.
Dairy margin coverage
(or DMC) means the dairy margin coverage program for dairy producers established under this subpart.
Dairy margin coverage payment
(DMC payment) means a payment made to a participating dairy operation under the DMC Program under the terms of this subpart.
Dairy operation
means, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, and subject to conditions that the Deputy Administrator may impose to advance the achievement of the purposes of the DMC Program, any one or more dairy producers that produce and market milk commercially produced from cows as a single unit in which each dairy producer:
(1) Shares in the pooling of resources under a common ownership structure;
(2) Is at risk in the production of milk in the dairy operation;
(3) Contributes land, labor, management, equipment, or capital to the dairy operation that are at least commensurate to the producer's share in the operation; and
(4) Has production facilities located in the United States.
Deputy Administrator
means the Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, Farm Service Agency, or designee.
Farm Service Agency
or FSA means the Farm Service Agency of USDA.
Handler or producer handler
means the initial individual or entity making payment to a dairy operation for milk produced in the United States and marketed for commercial use.
Hundredweight
or
cwt
means 100 pounds.
Limited resource farmer or rancher
means a farmer or rancher that is a person with both:
(1) Direct or indirect gross farm sales not more than an amount determined by FSA in each of the previous 2 years; and
(2) A total household income at or below the national poverty level for a family of four or less than 50 percent of county median household income in each of the previous 2 years.
Milk Income Loss Contract Program
or
MILC
means the program established under section 1506 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 8773) and the regulations in part 1430, subpart B of this part.
Milk marketing
means a sale of milk for which there is a verifiable production record for milk commercially marketed.
NASS
means the National Agricultural Statistics Service of USDA.
New operation
means a dairy operation that:
(1) Did not establish a production history under the MPP-Dairy;
(2) Has less than 12 full months in a calendar year of commercial milk marketings produced by the dairy operation; and
(3) Started commercially marketing milk within 60 days of submitting a contract application under DMC.
Open enrollment period for DMC
means the period, each calendar year, established by the Deputy Administrator, for a participating dairy operation to either register to participate in the DMC Program, pay associated administrative fees, if applicable, and applicable premiums, or to make annual coverage elections for an applicable calendar year of participation.
Participating dairy operation
means a dairy operation that signs up to participate in the DMC Program under this part.
Producer
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, estate, trust, association, cooperative, or other business enterprise or other legal entity who is, or whose members are, a citizen of, or legal resident alien in the United States, and who directly, or indirectly:
(1) Shares in the risk of producing milk, and
(2) Makes contributions including land, labor, management, equipment, or capital:
(i) To the dairy operation at least commensurate to the producer's share of the operation, or
(ii) To the dairy operation of the individual or entity, as determined by the Deputy Administrator.
Production history
means the production history determined for a participating dairy operation under this subpart when the participating dairy operation first registers to participate in DMC or previously established under MPP-Dairy, as determined under the provisions of this subpart.
RMA
means the Risk Management Agency of USDA.
Secretary
means the Secretary of USDA.
Socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher
means a farmer or rancher who is a member of a group whose members have been subject to racial, ethnic, or gender prejudice because of their identity as members of a group without regard to their individual qualities. Groups include: American Indians or Alaskan Natives, Asians or Asian Americans, Blacks or African Americans, Native Hawaiians or other Pacific Islanders, Hispanics, and women. For legal entities requesting to be considered Socially Disadvantaged, the majority interest must be held by socially disadvantaged individuals.
Supplemental production history
means the production history determined according to a formula using actual 2019 marketings, as authorized by the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (Pub. L. 116-260) for coverage years 2021, 2022, and 2023, for dairy operations enrolled in DMC with less than 5 million pounds of production.
United States
means, unless the context suggests otherwise, the 50 States of the United States of America, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and any other territory or possession of the United States.
USDA
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Verifiable production records
means evidence that is used to substantiate the amount of production marketed and that can be verified by CCC through an independent source.
Veteran farmer or rancher
means a person who has served in the United States Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, and Coast Guard, including the reserve components, and who has not operated a farm or ranch; has operated a farm or ranch but not for more than 10 years total, since becoming a veteran; or has obtained status as a veteran during the most recent 10-year period. A legal entity or joint operation will be considered a veteran farmer or rancher entity, if all members meet this definition.
[84 FR 28176, June 18, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 70707, Dec. 13, 2021; 89 FR 14375, Feb. 27, 2024]
§ 1430.403
Eligible dairy operations.
(a) In order for a dairy operation to be eligible to register for DMC and receive payments, such dairy operation must:
(1) Produce milk from cows in the United States that is marketed commercially at the time of each annual election for an applicable coverage year in DMC, except that dairy operations that have stopped producing and marketing milk in any month before or during the annual coverage election period for 2019 and 2024 are eligible for only those applicable months;
(2) Submit accurate and complete information as required by this subpart;
(3) Provide proof of milk production marketed commercially by all persons in the dairy operation to establish production history;
(4) Pay required administrative fees for participation in DMC as specified in this subpart and any premiums, if applicable, as specified in this subpart.
(b) A person or entity covered by § 1400.401 of this chapter (hereafter
“foreign person”) must meet the eligibility requirements in that section to receive payments under this subpart. A dairy operation with ineligible foreign persons as members will have any payment reduced by the proportional share of such members.
(c) Federal agencies and States, including all agencies and political subdivisions of a State, are not eligible for payments under this subpart.
(d) A single dairy operation operated by more than one dairy producer will be treated as a single dairy operation for purposes of participating in DMC and can only submit one application. If a producer owns more than one eligible dairy operation in which each operation is separate and distinct from each other, such dairy producer may be eligible to participate separately for each dairy operation, however, each eligible dairy operation must be separately registered, as specified in § 1430.404.
(e) The Deputy Administrator or designee will determine additional dairy operations that operate in a manner that are separate and distinct from each other according to paragraph (d) of this section and which may, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, be considered an operation even though they may not meet the conditions otherwise imposed in this definition. Also, the Deputy Administrator may require operations to be combined and considered one operation when there is close interest by family or otherwise between two operations, to avoid schemes or devices, or otherwise. Likewise, the Deputy Administrator may consider other factors as are deemed appropriate to adjust what is considered a dairy operation to conform with the DMC Program requirements in an equitable manner, including taking into account a dairy's status under MPP-Dairy and the Milk Income Loss Contract Program formerly operated under this part.
(f) Dairy operation eligibility for adjusted based production history requires the dairy operation to be enrolled in DMC for the applicable calendar year. Dairy operations with less than 5 million pounds of DMC production history are eligible for adjusted based production history.
[84 FR 28176, June 18, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 70707, Dec. 13, 2021; 89 FR 14375, Feb. 27, 2024; 89 FR 39540, May 9, 2024]
§ 1430.404
Time and method of registration and annual election.
(a) A dairy operation may register to participate in DMC by establishing a production history and, if eligible, adjusted base production history, according to § 1430.405 on a form prescribed by CCC and also submitting a contract prescribed by CCC. Dairy operations may obtain a contract in person, by mail, or by facsimile from any FSA county office. In addition, dairy operations may download a copy of the forms at
https://www.sc.egov.usda.gov.
(b) A dairy operation must submit completed contracts and any other supporting documentation, during the annual election period established by the Deputy Administrator, to the administrative county FSA office serving the dairy operation. However, the production history must be established only once and approved by CCC before the contract is submitted and considered complete. Dairy operations with less than 5 million pounds of production may make a one-time adjustment to production history based on a prescribed formula using actual 2019 milk marketings according to § 1430.405(a)(3), during the 2024 annual coverage election period. Once the adjusted base production history is established, that history will be permanent, will be used in place of previously established production history, and will be subject to coverage elections made by the dairy operation under the lock-in option according to § 1430.407(j) or made by the dairy operation in subsequent annual coverage year enrollments.
(1) A new dairy operation that has been established after the most recent election period is required to submit a contract within the first 60 calendar days from the date of which the dairy operation first commercially markets milk and may elect coverage that begins the month and day the dairy operation has commercial marketings.
(2) A new dairy operation that does not meet the 60-day requirement of paragraph (b)(1) of this section cannot
enroll until the next annual election period for coverage for the following calendar year.
(c) Annual contracts with coverage elections are to be submitted in time to be received at FSA by the close of business on the last day of the annual election period, established by the Deputy Administrator.
(1) The applicable year of coverage for contracts received during an annual election period will be the following calendar year, except for 2019 and 2024, where the election and coverage year will be the same, or unless otherwise specified by the Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs. Coverage for dairy operations that register during the 2019 election period will be retroactive to January 1, 2019. Coverage for dairy operations that are approved for 2024 DMC enrollment will receive any applicable payments triggered after January 1, 2024.
(2) Annual contracts with coverage elections submitted after the applicable allowed time for submission will not be considered.
(d) If the dairy producer operates more than one separate and distinct operation, the producer must register each operation for each operation to be eligible for coverage. If the producer moves the same herd of cattle between two facilities, then the two facilities will not be regarded as separate and distinct but as one operation unless the Deputy Administrator determines otherwise. A separate operation must distinctly, as a single unit, have their own cattle, facilities, milk marketings, tanks, feed, records, State level licenses, and permits. All new dairy operations that did not participate in MPP-Dairy must meet all the requirements of this paragraph. A participating dairy operation in business prior to January 1, 2019, that participated in MPP-Dairy will automatically be determined as a “dairy operation” for DMC Program purposes in the same manner as under MPP-Dairy. In disputes regarding separate dairy operations the Deputy Administrator will determine what is a separate and distinct operation and that decision will be final. A dairy operation operated by more than one dairy producer will be treated as a single dairy operation for purposes of participating in DMC and may only, submit one contract. Only participating dairy operations enrolling using contract forms approved by CCC will be covered by the DMC Program.
(e) A participating dairy operation must elect, during the applicable annual election period and by using the form prescribed by CCC, the coverage level threshold and coverage percentage for that participating dairy operation for the applicable calendar year:
(1) Once the registration for a calendar year of coverage is submitted and approved by CCC, coverage for subsequent years does not automatically carry forward. For each calendar year, a dairy operation that decides to participate in DMC must register for a calendar year of coverage according to this paragraph (e) during the applicable coverage election period, except as described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section;
(2) During the 2019 annual coverage election period only, participating dairy operations that make a one-time election of coverage level and percentage of coverage, according to § 1430.407(j), will be locked in at the same coverage level and percentage of coverage for a 5-year period beginning January 1, 2019, and ending December 31, 2023. During the annual coverage election period, dairy operations that elected that lock-in option must choose to remain locked in at the same coverage level and percentage of coverage for an additional year, ending December 31, 2024, or opt out of lock-in coverage for coverage year 2024. Dairy operations that elect the lock-in option are required to pay the annual administrative fee and submit an annual contract during the annual contract election period for each coverage year to certify that the dairy operation is still in the business of producing and commercially marketing milk. If the operation fails to pay the applicable administrative fees or certify the status of the dairy operation, the dairy operation will remain obligated for all applicable unpaid administrative and premium fees calculated for the lock-in period.
(3) All participating producers in the participating dairy operation must
agree to the coverage level threshold and coverage percentage elected by the operation on the contract. Producers in the participating dairy operation that elect not to participate may not submit a separate contract for coverage. All producers that share in risk of the dairy operations production must be indicated on the contract with their corresponding share in the dairy operation, however, a signature from the non-participating member will not be required for CCC approval.
(4) During the 2021 special enrollment period only, for participating dairy operations that had a succession-in-interest occur from January 2, 2021, through the opening of special enrollment, for supplemental production history to be applicable to such successors, the predecessor must first establish supplemental production history. For successions-in-interest when the successor establishes supplemental production history before the predecessor, the successor's supplemental production history will be applicable for 2022.
(f) By registering to participate or receive payment under DMC, all participating producers in the dairy operation must certify to the accuracy and truthfulness of the information in their applications and supporting documentation.
(1) All participating producers who share in the risk of a dairy operation's production must sign and certify all submissions made under DMC that relate to the level of coverage and marketed production for the dairy operation.
(2) All information provided is subject to verification by FSA. FSA may require a dairy operation to provide documentation that supports all verifiable records. Furnishing the information is voluntary; however, without such information DMC Program benefits will not be approved. Providing a false certification to the Federal Government may be punishable by imprisonment, fines, and other penalties or sanctions.
(g) At the time the completed contract is submitted to FSA for the first program year in which the operation is to participate in DMC, the dairy operation must also submit a separate form, as prescribed by CCC, to establish the production history for the dairy operation. An established production history and a completed contract are both required to have a complete submission that is subject to approval by FSA. Production histories established for dairy operations under MPP-Dairy will be used in the DMC Program. A new production history will only be established for new dairy operations that did not participate in MPP-Dairy.
(h) In addition to meeting requirements in paragraph (g) of this section, the dairy operation must submit a separate form as prescribed by CCC to establish the adjusted base production history for the dairy operation, if applicable, to complete a submission.
[84 FR 28176, June 18, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 70707, Dec. 13, 2021; 89 FR 14375, Feb. 27, 2024]
§ 1430.405
Establishment and transfer of production history for a participating dairy operation.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, FSA will establish the production history for a dairy operation for DMC as the highest annual milk marketings of the participating dairy operation during any one of the 2011, 2012, or 2013 calendar years, and will establish an adjusted base production history, if applicable.
(1) Producers in the participating dairy operation are required to provide adequate proof of the dairy operation's quantity of milk commercially marketed, to establish the production history and or adjusted base production history for the dairy operation.
(2) All information provided is subject to verification, spot check, and audit by FSA. If the dairy operation does not provide, to the satisfaction of FSA, documentation requested to substantiate the production history of the highest annual milk marketings or 2019 milk marketings for the participating dairy operation, then the registration will not be approved.
(3) A participating dairy operation may establish supplemental production history during the coverage election period preceding the coverage year, except for 2021 when a special enrollment will occur. To determine supplemental production history, the dairy operation
production history established according to paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section must be subtracted from that dairy operation's actual pounds of 2019 milk production as indicated on the milk marketing statement, with the result multiplied by 75 percent. Supplemental production history may not be established after the 2023 coverage year.
(4) A participating dairy operation with production of less than 5 million pounds may establish adjusted base production history during the coverage election period beginning with the 2024 coverage year. To determine adjusted base production history, the dairy operation production history established according to paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, and as previously adjusted under paragraph (e) of this section, if applicable, must be subtracted from that dairy operation's actual pounds of 2019 milk production as indicated on the milk marketing statement, with the result multiplied by 75 percent, and then added to the previously established production history. If the new adjusted base production history for a lock-in contract in coverage year 2024 exceeds the maximum 5 million pounds that can be covered under Tier 1, according to § 1430.407(d), the excess pounds above 5 million pounds will be enrolled in Tier 2 at the $4.00 Catastrophic level coverage. If the new adjusted base production history for an annual contract exceeds the maximum 5 million pounds that can be covered under Tier 1, the excess pounds above 5 million pounds will be enrolled according to the coverage elections on the annual contract.
(b) A participating dairy operation that was not in operation prior to January 1, 2014, that has not established a production history will elect the highest annual milk marketings during any one calendar year while in operation to determine the production history of the participating dairy operation.
(c) A participating dairy operation with less than one year of production history will be considered a new dairy operation. To establish the production history for such a new dairy operation the new dairy operation is required to elect one of the following methods:
(1) The volume of the actual milk marketings for the months the dairy operation has been in operation, extrapolated to a yearly amount based on a national seasonally adjusted index, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, to account for differences in milk production during the year; or
(2) An estimate of the actual milk marketings of the dairy operation based on the herd size of the dairy operation relative to the national rolling herd average data published by the Secretary.
(d) If FSA determines that the new enterprise was formed for the purpose of circumventing DMC provisions, including, but not limited to, reconstituting a dairy operation to receive additional benefits, or establishing new production history, that enterprise will not be considered a new dairy operation for the purpose of establishing production history.
(e) Once the production history of a participating dairy operation is established under paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, the production history will be adjusted by a one-time upward adjustment by FSA to reflect any increase in the national average milk production relative to calendar year 2017, as determined by the Deputy Administrator. Dairy operations participating in DMC, that had production history previously established under MPP-Dairy but elected not to participate in MPP-Dairy are not eligible for the production history adjustment. Dairy operations with approved contracts for 2018 coverage under MPP-Dairy will maintain that same production history, as in the DMC Program and are not eligible for the production history adjustment. New dairy operations that participate in DMC, that did not previously have their production history established nor participate in MPP-Dairy, will have the same adjustment factor of 1.0186 applied to their established production history for registration in the DMC Program as 2018 MPP-Dairy participants. There will be no further adjustments in subsequent years of participation made to the established production history under the DMC Program.
(f) The production history or adjusted base production history must be
transferred from one dairy facility to another as follows:
(1) Producers of a dairy operation relocate the dairy operation to another location and the production history and or adjusted base production history, if applicable, of the original operation must be transferred to the new location and subject to the same elected coverage levels for that year; or
(2) Producers of a dairy operation transfer ownership of a dairy operation with its associated production history and or adjusted base production history, if applicable, through a succession-in-interest transfer when there is a spouse, child, heir, or common member that the dairy operation is being transferred to and there is no break in the continuity of the dairy operation. However, the successor operation must submit a separate registration according to § 1430.404, to participate in DMC, but will be subject to the same elected coverage levels made by the predecessor for that coverage year or lock-in period, as applicable.
(g) If CCC waives the obligation, under DMC of a participating dairy operation due to death or retirement of the producer or of the permanent dissolution of the dairy operation or under other circumstances as determined by the Deputy Administrator, FSA may reestablish the production history and adjusted base production history, if applicable.
(h) The established production history of a participating dairy operation may be adjusted upward once during the term of the contract for an intergenerational transfer based on the purchase of additional cows by the new family member(s). The increase in the established production history of the participating dairy operation will be determined on the basis of the national rolling herd average data for the current year in effect at the time of the intergenerational transfer and the quantity of the production history increase will be limited to an amount not more than 5 million pounds. The additional quantity of production history will receive coverage at the same elected coverage threshold and coverage percentage in effect for the participating dairy operation at the time the production history increase takes effect. Intergenerational transfers will not be allowed if the participating dairy operation's current annual production and the increase in herd size by the new member(s) is less than the operation's established production history.
(1) The dairy operation must notify FSA, using the appropriate CCC form(s), of the intergenerational transfer within 60 days of the purchase of the cows, except that for purchases made for intergenerational transfers occurring in 2019 before the 2019 annual coverage election period, the dairy operation must notify FSA during the registration and annual coverage election period for coverage year 2019, established by the Deputy Administrator. The operation has the option of the additional production history taking effect beginning with the month the producer first began to commercially produce and market milk as part of the dairy operation, or the following January 1. If the additional production history takes effect between January 1 and August 31, the premium is due September 1, as specified in § 1430.407(h)(2). If the additional production history takes effect between September 1 and December 31, the premium is due immediately.
(2) All of the items specified in this paragraph must be documented in the notification to FSA and self-certified by the current and new member(s) for the intergenerational transfer to be considered eligible for additional production history. All of the following information is subject to verification by CCC. Refusal to allow CCC or any other agency of USDA to verify any information provided will result in disapproval of the intergenerational transfer.
(i) Documentation that the new member(s) joining the operation has purchased the dairy cows being added to the dairy operation;
(ii) Certification that each new member will have a share of the profits or losses from the dairy operation commensurate with such person's contributions to the dairy operation;
(iii) Certification that each new member has a significant equity ownership in the participating dairy operation at levels determined by the Deputy Administrator and announced on the FSA website,
www.fsa.usda.gov;
(iv) Certification that each new member is a lineal descendant or spouse of a current member of the participating dairy operation;
(v) Agreement that each new member will contribute labor in the dairy operation at a minimum of 35 hours per week or have a plan for transition to full-time, subject to FSA county committee review and approval, if only working seasonally or part-time;
(vi) Certification that the dairy operation will be the principal source of non-investment earned income for each new member; and
(vii) Documentation of the participating dairy operation's current annual marketings as of the date of the intergenerational transfer.
[84 FR 28176, June 18, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 70707, Dec. 13, 2021; 89 FR 14375, Feb. 27, 2024]
§ 1430.406
Administrative fees.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, dairy operations must pay an administrative fee to CCC in the amount of $100 at the time of enrollment during the annual election period for each applicable coverage year the dairy operation decides to participate in DMC. Annual administrative fees are due and payable to CCC through the administrative county FSA office no later than the close of business on the last day of the annual election period established by the Deputy Administrator for each applicable calendar year of dairy margin coverage under DMC. The administrative fee paid is non-refundable.
(b) The required annual administrative fee is per dairy operation. Therefore, multiple dairy producers in a single participating dairy operation are required to pay only one annual administrative fee for the participating dairy operation. Conversely, in the case of a dairy producer that operates more than one dairy operation, each participating dairy operation is required to pay a separate administrative fee annually.
(c) Dairy operations that lock-in coverage according to § 1430.407(j), are required to pay the administrative fee each year through 2024, except as provided in paragraph (e) in this section.
(d) Failure to pay the administrative fee timely will result in loss of dairy margin coverage for the applicable calendar year.
(e) A limited resource, beginning, veteran, or socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher, as defined in § 1430.402, will be exempt from paying the administrative fee in this section. The administrative fee waiver for the DMC Program for socially disadvantaged, beginning, and limited resource farmers and ranchers must be requested on a form specified by FSA and must accompany the contract application for coverage under this part in the administrative county FSA office.
[84 FR 28176, June 18, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 14376, Feb. 27, 2024]
§ 1430.407
Buy-up coverage.
(a) For purposes of receiving buy-up dairy margin coverage, a participating dairy operation may annually elect, except as provided by paragraph (i) of this section, during an annual election period the following for the applicable calendar year:
(1) A coverage level threshold for margins that, per cwt, is equal to one of the following: $4.50, $5, $5.50, $6, $6.50, $7, $7.50, $8, $8.50. $9, or $9.50; and
(2) A percentage of coverage for the production history or adjusted base production history from 5 percent to 95 percent, in 5 percent increments.
(b) In the absence of any such election, the applicable coverage level provided, with no premium due, is catastrophic level coverage.
(c) A participating dairy operation that elects margin protection coverage above $4 is required to pay an annual premium based on coverage level and covered production history in addition to the administrative fee. Tier 1 applies to covered production history up to and including 5 million pounds; Tier 2 applies to covered production history above 5 million pounds.
(d) A participating dairy operation may only select one coverage level threshold and only one percentage of coverage applicable to both Tier 1 and
Tier 2. However, a participating dairy operation that elects a coverage level threshold of $8.50, $9, or $9.50, according to paragraph (a)(1) of this section, on the dairy operation's first 5 million pounds of production history under Tier 1, must choose a different coverage level threshold that is equal to $4, $4.50, $5, $5.50, $6, $6.50, $7, $7.50, $8 to apply to production history in excess of 5 million pounds included in the covered production under Tier 2 elected by the participating dairy operation.
(e) The premium per cwt of milk, based on the elected percentage of coverage of production history is specified in the following table:
Table 1 to § 1430.407(
e
)
Coverage level
(margin)
Tier 1
premium per cwt (for the covered
production
history that is
5 million pounds or less)
Tier 2
premium per cwt (for the part of
covered
production
history over
5 million pounds)
$4.00
None
None
4.50
$0.0025
$0.0025
$5.00
0.005
0.005
$5.50
0.030
0.100
6.00
0.050
0.310
6.50
0.070
0.650
7.00
0.080
1.107
7.50
0.090
1.413
8.00
0.100
1.813
8.50
0.105
N/A
9.00
0.110
N/A
9.50
0.150
N/A
(f) The annual premium due for a participating dairy operation is calculated for production history or adjusted base production history, as applicable, by multiplying:
(1) The covered production history or adjusted base production history; and
(2) The premium per cwt of milk specified in paragraph (e) of this section for the coverage level elected in paragraph (d) of this section by the dairy operation.
(g) In the case of a new dairy operation that first registers to participate in DMC for a calendar year after the start of the calendar year, the participating dairy operation is required to pay a pro-rated premium for that calendar year based on the portion of the calendar year for which the participating dairy operation is eligible, and for which it purchases the coverage.
(h) A participating dairy operation is required to pay the annual premium in total as specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section for the applicable calendar year, at time of submission of coverage election to FSA; but no later than September 1 of the applicable calendar year of coverage, unless otherwise specified by the Deputy Administrator.
(i) If the total premium is not paid for an applicable calendar year of coverage as specified in paragraph (g) of this section, the participating dairy operation will lose coverage until such time as the premium has been fully paid.
(j) For each calendar year 2019 through 2023, a participating dairy operation that makes a one-time election of a coverage level threshold and a percentage of coverage according to this section, for a 5-year period, will have their elected coverage level, as applicable to each tier, reduced by 25 percent. The option to lock in for the premium rate discount must be elected during the 2019 annual coverage election period announced by FSA. Except that, new dairy operations, not in existence during the 2019 annual election period, that elect to participate in DMC according to § 1430.404(b), are eligible to receive the premium rate discount for locking coverage for the period beginning with the first available calendar year and ending in 2023, except that new dairy operations registering for DMC for the first time for coverage year 2023 and dairy operations that stop producing and marketing milk in 2019 that are registering for eligible months in 2019 are not eligible for the multi-year premium rate discount. All dairy operations that elect the lock-in option are subject to full participation in the DMC Program at the same elected premium coverage levels and calculated premium for the duration of DMC according to § 1430.413. Participating dairy operations that received the premium rate discount during the 2023 calendar year of coverage are eligible to receive the premium rate discount for calendar year 2024, unless the dairy operation opts-out of lock-in coverage for 2024 according to § 1430.404(e)(2).
(k) Annual premium balances due to CCC from a participating dairy operation for a calendar year of coverage must be paid in full no later than September 1 of the applicable calendar year or within a grace period determined by the Deputy Administrator, if applicable.
(l) The Deputy Administrator may waive the obligation to pay the premium, or refund the premium paid, of a participating dairy operation for a calendar year, for death, retirement, permanent dissolution of a participating dairy operation, or other circumstances determined by the Deputy Administrator. In these instances, the contract will be terminated immediately, except with respect to payments accrued to the benefit of the participating dairy operation under this subpart before such termination.
(m) DMC administrative fees and premiums are required to be paid by a negotiable instrument satisfactory to FSA and made payable to CCC and either mailed to or provided in person to the administrative county office or other location designated by FSA.
(n) The premium rate for adjusted base production history eligible under a lock-in contract maintains the 25 percent discounted rate according to paragraph (j) of this section.
[84 FR 28176, June 18, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 70707, Dec. 13, 2021; 89 FR 14376, Feb. 26, 2024]
§ 1430.408
MPP-Dairy premium repayments.
(a) A dairy operation that participated in MPP-Dairy during any of calendar years 2014 through 2017 may receive a repayment in an amount equal to the difference between the total amount of premiums paid by the dairy operation for each applicable calendar year of coverage and the total amount of payments made to the MPP-Dairy participating dairy operation for that applicable calendar year.
(b) FSA will determine the calculated repayment amounts for each year for each dairy operation that participated in MPP-Dairy during the years of 2014 through 2017.
(1) Coverage years in which the payments exceeded premiums paid for that coverage year will yield a $0 calculation for that calendar year.
(2) Dairy operations must provide adequate proof, to the satisfaction of FSA, for calculated repayment amounts in dispute.
(c) Qualifying dairy operations according to paragraph (a) of this section, must elect on a form prescribed by CCC, to receive the repayment in either an amount that is equal to the following:
(1) 75 percent of the calculated repayment as a credit that may be used by the dairy operation towards DMC premiums; or
(2) 50 percent of the calculated repayment as a direct cash repayment.
(d) Dairy operations may transfer their premium repayment election choice in paragraph (c) of this section to a dairy operation that succeeded to the dairy operation through a succession-in-interest transfer under MPP-Dairy. However, the dairy operation to which the election choice is being transferred to must be participating in the DMC Program if the credit option is elected according to paragraph (c)(1) of this section. Otherwise, their credit repayment election is not transferrable. Dairy operations that give up their right to elect a premium repayment option by designation of such on a form prescribed by CCC are not eligible to receive a cash or credit benefit, in full or partially, for premiums paid under MPP-Dairy.
(e) A dairy operation that elects the credit option can only use the credit in the DMC Program. If the entire credit is not used, for any reason, it cannot be applied as a credit to any other USDA program and will have zero cash value that cannot be redeemed for any purpose.
(f) A dairy operation that elects the cash repayment option will have the repayment issued only in the name of the dairy operation entity as it existed in MPP-Dairy.
(g) A dairy operation must choose their MPP-Dairy premium repayment option on a form prescribed by CCC during a period specified by FSA. Once the premium repayment choice of credit or cash is made by the dairy operation and approved by FSA, that choice cannot be changed.
§ 1430.409
Dairy margin coverage payments.
(a) A DMC payment will be made to a participating dairy operation for any month when the average actual dairy production margin for that month falls below the coverage level threshold in effect for the participating dairy operation.
(b) Payments trigger at the catastrophic level or at the buy-up level; the payments will be calculated according to this paragraph. If the dairy operation only has catastrophic coverage or buy-up coverage at 95 percent, there will be a single calculation. If the dairy operation purchased buy-up coverage at less than 95 percent and the catastrophic level also triggers a payment, then there will be two calculations to determine the payment—first the calculation for the buy-up coverage percentage and then the calculation for the catastrophic level percentage, which is the balance of the established production history up to 95 percent; the result of these two calculations will be added together to determine the payment amount. Each calculation multiplies the payment rate times the coverage percentage times the production history or established adjusted base production history divided by 12 as follows:
(1)
Payment rate.
The amount by which the coverage level exceeds the average actual dairy production margin for a month;
(2)
Coverage percentage.
The coverage percentage; and
(3)
Production history.
The production history or established adjusted base production history or adjusted base production history of the dairy operation, divided by 12.
(c) If the dairy operation purchased buy-up level coverage at less than 95 percent of production history or adjusted base production history, then the dairy operation will receive a payment calculated at the buy-up level, plus the payment at the catastrophic level, if triggered, for the balance of 95 percent of its established production history or adjusted base production history. For example, if a producer purchased buy-up coverage at the 50 percent level, then that producer will also receive catastrophic level coverage for the next 45 percent for total coverage of 95 percent.
[84 FR 28176, June 18, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 70708, Dec. 13, 2021; 89 FR 14376, Feb. 27, 2024]
§ 1430.410
Effect of failure to pay administrative fees or premiums.
(a) A participating dairy operation that fails to pay a required administrative fee or premium payment due upon application to DMC or for a calendar year of coverage:
(1) Remains legally obligated to pay such administrative fee or premium, as applicable; and
(2) Upon such failure to pay when due, loses coverage under DMC until such administrative fee or premium is paid in full, and once paid, coverage will be reinstated beginning with the month coverage was lost.
(b) CCC may take such actions as necessary to collect unpaid administrative fees and premium payments.
§ 1430.411
Calculation of average feed cost and actual dairy production margins.
(a) Payments are made to a participating dairy operation as specified in this subpart only when the calculated average actual dairy production margin for a month is below the coverage level in effect for the participating dairy operation. That margin will be calculated on a national basis and is the amount by which for the relevant month, the all milk price exceeds the average feed cost for dairy producers. The average actual dairy production margin calculation applies to all participating dairy operations. The calculations are not made on an operation by operation basis or on their marketings.
(b) For calculating the national average feed cost that dairy operations use to produce a cwt of milk, the following three items will be added together:
(1) The product determined by multiplying 1.0728 by the price of corn per bushel;
(2) The product determined by multiplying 0.00735 by the price of soybean meal per ton; and
(3) The product determined by multiplying 0.0137 by the price of alfalfa hay per ton.
(c) To make those feed calculations, the Deputy Administrator on behalf of CCC will use the following full month data:
(1) For corn, the full month price received by farmers during the month in the United States as reported in the monthly Agricultural Prices report by USDA NASS;
(2) For soybean meal, the Central Illinois soybean meal price delivered by rail as reported in the USDA AMS Market News-Monthly; and
(3) For alfalfa hay, the full month price received during the month by farmers in the United States for high quality (premium and supreme) alfalfa hay as reported in the monthly Agricultural Prices report by USDA NASS will be used to calculate the hay price.
(d) The national average feed cost data for corn, soybean meal, and alfalfa hay used in the calculation of the national average feed cost to determine the actual dairy production margin for the relevant period, will be the data reported in the publication the following month. (For example, full month May prices will be available in the June publication, and those will be the prices used).
(e) The actual dairy production margin for each month, will be calculated by subtracting:
(1) The average feed cost for that month, determined under paragraph (b) of this section; from
(2) The all-milk price for that same month.
[84 FR 28176, June 18, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 70708, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1430.412
Relation to RMA's LGM-Dairy Program.
(a) Dairy producers that produced and commercially marketed milk in 2018 and participated in the LGM-Dairy Program operated by RMA in 2018 are eligible to receive retroactive 2018 coverage under MPP-Dairy for those months in operation. Approved participation for retroactive MPP-Dairy coverage is subject to verification of LGM-Dairy coverage in 2018 by RMA.
(b) Eligible dairy producers must apply for the retroactive 2018 MPP-Dairy coverage on a CCC-prescribed application form during a signup period announced by the Deputy Administrator.
(c) Eligible producers that received partial year benefits under MPP-Dairy are eligible for the full year, less any payments issued for a month that triggered a payment under MPP-Dairy in 2018.
§ 1430.413
Multi-year contract for lock-in option.
(a) Participating dairy operations enrolled in DMC according to § 1430.407(j) are registered through December 31, 2023. As such, a participating dairy operation is obligated to pay applicable administrative fees and applicable premiums each succeeding calendar year following the date the contract is first entered into through December 31, 2023. Likewise, any successor to the dairy operation with lock-in coverage will be bound to the same coverage elections made by the predecessor and applicable premiums for the duration of the lock-in period.
(b) A participating dairy operation under a lock-in option that fails to pay applicable administrative fees and premiums no later than September 1 of the applicable calendar year of coverage year of the lock-in will remain obligated to pay such applicable administrative fees and premiums as specified in § 1430.410.
(c) If a participating dairy operation goes out of business as described in § 1430.407(l) before the end of the lock-in period, the contract will be terminated immediately, except with respect to payments accrued to the benefit of the participating dairy operation under this subpart before such termination.
(d) For 2024 DMC coverage, participating dairy operations with lock-in coverage in 2023 are eligible to extend lock-in coverage for coverage year 2024.
(e) During the 2024 election period, a participating dairy operation with lock-in coverage in 2023, may opt out of the lock-in contract for coverage year 2024 and enroll in 2024 DMC through an annual contract at the standard premium rate.
[[84 FR 28176, June 18, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 14376, Feb. 27, 2024]
§ 1430.414
Contract modifications.
(a) Producers in a participating dairy operation must notify FSA immediately of any changes that may affect their participation in DMC. Changes include, but are not limited to, death of a producer who is on the contract, producer joining the operation, producer exiting the operation, relocation of the dairy operation, transfer of shares by sale or other transfer action, or dairy operation reconstitutions as provided in § 1430.415.
(b) Payment of any outstanding premium or administrative fee for a participating dairy operation must be paid in full before a transfer of shares by sale or any other change in producers on the contract originally submitted to FSA may take effect. Otherwise, producer changes will not be recognized until the following annual election period, and only if at that time all associated premiums and administrative fees from any previous calendar year of coverage have been paid in full.
§ 1430.415
Reconstitutions.
(a) Any participating dairy operation that reorganizes or restructures after enrollment is subject to a review by FSA to determine if the operation was reorganized or restructured for the sole purpose of establishing an alternative production history for a participating dairy operation or was reorganized or restructured to otherwise circumvent any DMC Program provision under this subpart (including the tier system for premiums) or otherwise to prevent the accomplishment of the purpose of the DMC Program.
(b) A participating dairy operation that FSA determines has reorganized solely to establish a new production history or to circumvent the determination of applicable fees or premiums based on an established production history determined under this subpart will be considered to have failed to meet the DMC Program requirements and, in addition to other sanctions or penalties that may apply, will not be eligible for DMC payments.
(c) Under no circumstance, except as approved by the Deputy Administrator or provided for in these regulations, will the reconstitution or restructure of a participating dairy operation change the determined production history for the operation. The Deputy Administrator may, however, adjust the production history of a participating dairy operation if there is a calculation error or if erroneous information has been supplied by or on behalf of the participating dairy operation.
§ 1430.416
Offsets and withholdings.
FSA may offset or withhold any amount due to FSA or CCC under this subpart under the provisions of part 1403 of this chapter or any successor regulations, or any other authorities that may allow for collection action of that sort.
§ 1430.417
Assignments.
Any producer may assign a payment to be made under this subpart in accordance with part 1404 of this chapter or successor regulations as designated by the Secretary or as allowed by the Deputy Administrator in writing.
§ 1430.418
Appeals.
Any producer who is dissatisfied with a determination made pursuant to this subpart may request reconsideration or appeal of such determination under part 11 or 780 of this title.
§ 1430.419
Misrepresentation and scheme or device.
(a) In addition to other penalties, sanctions or remedies as may apply, all or any part of a payment otherwise due a person or legal entity on all participating dairy operations in which the person or legal entity has an interest may be withheld or be required to be refunded if the person or legal entity fails to comply with the provisions of this subpart or adopts or participates in adopting a scheme or device designed to evade this subpart, or that has the effect of evading this part. Such acts may include, but are not limited to:
(1) Concealing information that affects a registration or coverage election;
(2) Submitting false or erroneous information; or
(3) Creating a business arrangement using rental agreements or other arrangements to conceal the interest of a
person or legal entity in a dairy operation for the purpose of obtaining DMC payments the individual or legal entity would otherwise not be eligible to receive. Indicators of such business arrangement include, but are not limited to the following:
(i) No milk is produced and commercially marketed by a participating dairy operation;
(ii) The participating dairy operation has no appreciable assets;
(iii) The only source of capital for the dairy operation is the DMC payments; or
(iv) The represented dairy operation exists mainly for the receipt of DMC payments.
(b) If the Deputy Administrator determines that a person or legal entity has adopted a scheme or device to evade, or that has the purpose of evading, the provisions of this subpart, such person or legal entity will be ineligible to receive DMC payments in the year such scheme or device was adopted and the succeeding year.
(c) A person or legal entity that perpetuates a fraud, commits fraud, or participates in equally serious actions for the benefit of the person or legal entity, or the benefit of any other person or legal entity, in violation of the requirements of this subpart will be subject to a 5-year denial of all DMC Program benefits. Such other equally serious actions may include, but are not limited to:
(1) Knowingly engaging in, or aiding in the creation of a fraudulent document or statement;
(2) Failing to disclose material information relevant to the administration of the provisions of this subpart, or
(3) Engaging in any other actions of a person or legal entity determined by the Deputy Administrator to be designed, or intended to, circumvent the provisions of this subpart.
(d) Program payments and benefits will be denied on pro-rata basis:
(1) In accordance with the interest held by the person or legal entity in any other legal entity or joint operations; and
(2) To any person or legal entity that is a cash rent tenant on land owned or under control of a person or legal entity for which a determination of this section has been made.
§ 1430.420
Estates, trusts, and minors.
(a) DMC Program documents executed by producers legally authorized to represent estates or trusts will be accepted only if such producers furnish evidence of the authority to execute such documents.
(b) A minor who is otherwise eligible for benefits under this subpart is also required to:
(1) Establish that the right of majority has been conferred on the minor by court proceedings or by law;
(2) Show that a guardian has been appointed to manage the minor's property and the applicable DMC Program documents are executed by the guardian; or
(3) Furnish a bond under which the surety guarantees any loss incurred for which the minor would be liable had the minor been an adult.
§ 1430.421
Death, incompetency, or disappearance.
In the case of death, incompetency, disappearance, or dissolution of a producer that is eligible to receive benefits under this subpart, such persons as are specified in part 707 of this title may receive such benefits, as determined appropriate by FSA.
§ 1430.422
Maintenance and inspection of records.
(a) Participating dairy operations are required to maintain accurate records and accounts that will document that they meet all eligibility requirements specified in this subpart, as may be requested by CCC or FSA. Such records and accounts are required to be retained for 3 years after the date of DMC payments to the participating dairy operation. Destruction of the records 3 years after the date of payment will be at the risk of the party undertaking the destruction.
(b) A participating dairy operation is required to allow authorized representatives of CCC, the Secretary, or the Comptroller General of the United States to have access to the premises of the dairy operation in order to inspect the herd of cattle, examine, and make copies of the books, records, and
accounts, and other written data as specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Any producer or dairy operation that does not comply with the provisions of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, or that otherwise receives a payment for which it is not eligible, is liable for that payment and is required to repay it to FSA, with interest to run from the date of disbursement.
§ 1430.423
Refunds; joint and several liability.
(a) Any legal entity, including joint operations, joint ventures and partnerships, and any member of a legal entity determined to have knowingly participated in a scheme or device, or other such equally serious actions to evade, or that has the purpose of evading the provisions of this part, will be jointly and severally liable for any amounts determined to be payable as the result of the scheme or device, or other such equally serious actions, including amounts necessary to recover the payments.
(b) Any person or legal entity that cooperates in the enforcement of the provisions of this part may be partially or fully released from liability, as determined by the Executive Vice President, CCC.
(c) The provisions of this section will be applicable in addition to any liability that arises under a criminal or civil law, regulation, or other provision of law.
§ 1430.424
Violations of highly erodible and wetland conservation provisions.
The provisions of 7 CFR part 12 apply to this part.
§ 1430.425
Violations regarding controlled substances.
The provisions of 7 CFR 718.6 apply to this part.
Pt. 1434

# PART 1434—NONRECOURSE MARKETING ASSISTANCE LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS FOR HONEY
Sec.
1434.1
Applicability.
1434.2
Administration.
1434.3
Definitions.
1434.4
Eligible producer.
1434.5
Eligible honey.
1434.6
Beneficial interest.
1434.7
Approved storage.
1434.8
Containers and drums.
1434.9
Determination of quantity.
1434.10
Application, availability, disbursement, and maturity.
1434.11
Fees and interest.
1434.12
Liens.
1434.13
Transfer of producer's interest prohibited.
1434.14
Loss or damage.
1434.15
Personal liability..
1434.16
Release of the honey pledged as collateral for a MAL.
1434.17
Liquidation of loans.
1434.18
Loan repayments.
1434.19
Settlement.
1434.20
Foreclosure.
1434.21
Loan deficiency payments.
1434.22
Death, incompetency, or disappearance; appeals; other loan provisions.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7231-7237, 7931-7936, and 9031-40; and 15 U.S.C. 714b and c.

# Source:
66 FR 15177, Mar. 15, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1434.1
Applicability.
(a) This part specifies the terms and conditions of Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) nonrecourse marketing assistance loan (MAL) and loan deficiency payment (LDP) Programs for honey. MAL gains and LDPs for honey are limited by the adjusted gross income provisions specified in part 1400 of this chapter.
(b) Producers must comply with all provisions of this part and part 1421 of this chapter.
[74 FR 15656, Apr. 7, 2009, as amended at 80 FR 139, Jan. 2, 2015; 86 FR 70708, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1434.2
Administration.
(a) The regulations of this part will be administered under the general supervision of the Executive Vice President, CCC, and are carried out in the field by Farm Service Agency (FSA) State and county committees.
(b) State and county committees, representatives and employees thereof, do not have the authority to modify or waive any of the provisions of the regulations of this part.
(c) The State committee will take any action required by the regulations of this part that has not been taken by
the county committee. The State committee will also:
(1) Correct, or require a county committee to correct, any action taken by such county committee that is not in accordance with the regulations of this part; or
(2) Require a county committee to withhold taking any action that is not in accordance with the regulations of this part.
(d) No provision or delegation herein to a State or county committee will preclude the Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee, from determining any question arising under the program or from reversing or modifying any determination made by a State or county committee.
(e) The Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, FSA, may authorize State and county committees to waive or modify deadlines and other program requirements in cases where timeliness or failure to meet such other requirements does not affect adversely the operation of the program.
(f) An approving official of CCC may execute loans and related documents only under the terms and conditions determined and announced by CCC. Any such document that is not executed in accordance with such terms and conditions, including any purported execution before the date authorized by CCC, will be null and void unless affirmed by the Executive Vice President, CCC.
[66 FR 15177, Mar. 15, 2001, as amended at 80 FR 139, 141, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1434.3
Definitions.
The definitions in this section are applicable for all purposes of program administration. The terms defined in part 718 of this title are also applicable except where those definitions are inconsistent with the definitions in this section or for purpose of program instruments created under this part.
Approving official
is a representative of CCC who is authorized by the Executive Vice President, CCC, to approve loan documents prepared under this part.
Calling a loan
is accelerating or moving forward the maturity date of an outstanding MAL. A MAL can be called when the terms and conditions of the MAL note and security agreement are violated, a producer incorrectly certifies a loan quantity or makes any fraudulent representation with respect to obtaining a loan, removing or disposing of a farm-stored commodity pledged as collateral for a loan without authorization, to protect CCC's interest, or in emergency situations.
Charge
is a fee, cost, and expense (including foreclosure costs) incident to insuring, carrying, handling, storing, conditioning, and marketing the honey and otherwise protecting the honey.
CMA
is a cooperative marketing association engaged in marketing honey.
County office
is the local FSA office.
Crop year
is the calendar year in which honey is extracted.
Ineligible honey
is honey not eligible for a MAL under this part for which ineligibility will include, but is not limited to, honey from ineligible floral sources regardless of whether the honey meets other eligibility requirements.
Intermediate Bulk Container (IBC)
is a bulk container with a polyethylene inner bottle with a galvanized steel protective cage with a 275 and 330 gallon capacity and is reusable.
Loan
is a nonrecourse marketing assistance loan on honey.
Loan deficiency payment (LDP)
means a payment made in lieu of a MAL when the CCC-determined value, which is based on the current local price in a county, is below the applicable county loan rate. The payment is the difference between the two rates times the eligible quantity.
Nontable honey
is honey having a predominant flavor of limited acceptability for table use even though such honey may be considered suitable for table use.
Person
is an individual, partnership, association, corporation, estate or trust, or other business enterprise or other legal entity and, whenever applicable a State, political subdivision of a State, or any agency thereof.
Table honey
is any honey having a good flavor of the predominant floral source which can be readily marketed for table use.
Representative
is a receiver, executor, administrator, guardian, or trustee
representing the interests of a person or an estate.
[66 FR 15177, Mar. 15, 2001, as amended at 80 FR 139, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1434.4
Eligible producer.
(a) To be eligible to receive an individual or joint loan or LDP under this part, a person must:
(1) Have produced honey in the United States during the calendar year for which a loan is requested and extracted on or before December 31 of such calendar year;
(2) Be responsible for the risk of keeping the bees and producing honey;
(3) Have a continuous beneficial interest in the honey from the time the honey was extracted through date of repayment of the loan;
(4) Store the honey pledged as loan collateral in eligible storage and in eligible containers that meet the requirements of § 1434.7 and § 1434.8, respectively; and
(5) Adequately protect the interests of CCC by providing security for a loan in accordance with the requirements in § 1434.8 and by maintaining in good condition the honey pledged as security for a loan.
(b) A person who complies with paragraph (a) of this section, who enters into a contract to sell the honey used as collateral for a loan but retains a beneficial interest in the honey and who does not receive an advance payment from the purchaser to enter into the contract unless the purchaser is a cooperative marketing association (CMA) that is eligible under paragraph (g) of this section, remains eligible for a loan.
(c) Two or more applicants may be eligible for a joint loan if:
(1) The conditions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are met with respect to the commingled honey collateral stored in the same eligible containers they are tendering for a loan; and
(2) The commingled honey is not used as collateral for an individual loan that has not been repaid.
(d) Heirs who succeed to a beneficial interest in the honey are eligible for a loan if they:
(1) Assume the decedent's obligation under a loan if such loan has already been obtained; and
(2) Assure continued safe storage of the honey if such honey has been pledged as collateral for a loan.
(e) A representative may be eligible to receive a loan on behalf of a person or estate who or which meets the requirements in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this section and that the honey tendered as collateral by the representative, in the capacity of a representative, will be considered as tendered by the person or estate being represented.
(f) A minor who otherwise meets the requirements of this part for a loan is eligible to receive a loan only if the minor meets one of the following requirements:
(1) A court or statute has conferred the right of majority on the minor;
(2) A guardian has been appointed to manage the minor's property and the applicable loan documents are signed by the guardian;
(3) Any note signed by the minor is cosigned by a person determined by the county committee to be financially responsible; or
(4) A surety, by furnishing a bond, guarantees to protect CCC from any loss incurred for which the minor would be liable had the minor been an adult.
(g) A CMA that the Executive Vice President, CCC, determines meets the requirements for CMA's in part 1425 of this title may be eligible to obtain a loan on behalf of those members who themselves are eligible to obtain a loan provided that:
(1) The beneficial interest in the honey must always, until loan repayment or forfeiture, remain in the member who delivered the honey to the eligible CMA or its member CMA's, except as otherwise provided in this part; and
(2) The honey delivered to an eligible CMA will not be eligible for a loan if the member who delivered the honey does not retain the right to share in the proceeds from the marketing of the honey as provided in part 1425 of this title.
[66 FR 15177, Mar. 15, 2001, as amended at 80 FR 139, 141, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1434.5
Eligible honey.
To be eligible for a loan, the honey must:
(a) Have been produced by an eligible producer;
(b) Have been produced in the United States during the calendar year for which a loan is requested and extracted on or before December 31 of such calendar year;
(c) Be of merchantable quality deemed by CCC to be suitable for loan; that is, the honey:
(1) Is not adulterated;
(2) Has not been scorched, burned, or subjected to excessive heat resulting in objectionable flavor, color deterioration or carmelization;
(3) Does not contain any ineligible honey floral sources; such as andromeda, bitterweed, broomweed, cajeput (melaleuca), carrot, chinquapin, dog fennel, desert hollyhock, gumweed, mescal, onion, prickly pear, prune, queen's delight, rabbit brush, snowbrush (ceanothus), snow-on-the-mountain, spurge (leafy spurge), tarweed, and similar objectionably-flavored honey or blends of honey as determined by the Director, Price Support Division, FSA. If any blends of honey contain such ineligible honey, the lot as a whole will be considered ineligible for loan;
(4) Does not contain excessive bees or bee parts, paint chips, wood chips, or other foreign matter; and
(5) Is not fermenting; and
(d) Be stored in acceptable containers.
[66 FR 15177, Mar. 15, 2001, as amended at 80 FR 141, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1434.6
Beneficial interest.
(a) To be eligible to receive MALs under this part a producer must have the beneficial interest in the honey that is tendered to CCC for a loan. The producer must always have had the beneficial interest in the honey unless, before the honey was extracted, the producer and a former producer whom the producer tendering the honey to CCC has succeeded had such an interest in the honey. Honey obtained by gift or purchase shall not be eligible to be tendered to CCC for loans. Heirs who succeed to the beneficial interest of a deceased producer or who assume the decedent's obligations under an existing loan shall be eligible to receive loans whether succession to the honey occurs before or after extraction so long as the heir otherwise complies with the provisions of this part.
(b) A producer is not be considered to have divested the beneficial interest in the honey if the producer retains title and control of the honey including the right to make all decisions regarding the tender of such honey to CCC for a loan, and the producer:
(1) Executes an option to purchase, whether or not a payment is made by the potential buyer for such option to purchase, with respect to such honey if all other eligibility requirements are met and the option to purchase contains the following provision:
“Notwithstanding any other provision of this option to purchase or any other contract, title and control of the honey and beneficial interest in the honey, as specified in 7 CFR 1434.6, must remain with the producer until the buyer exercises this option to purchase the honey. This option to purchase will expire, notwithstanding any action or inaction by either the producer or the buyer, at the earlier of:
(1) The maturity of any Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) loan which is secured by such honey;
(2) The date the CCC claims title to such honey; or
(3) Such other date as provided in this option.”
(2) Enters into a contract to sell the honey if the producer retains title, and beneficial interest in the honey and the purchaser does not pay to the producer any advance payment amount or any incentive payment amount to enter into such contract except as provided in part 1425 of this chapter.
(c) If loans are made available to producers through an approved CMA in accordance with part 1425 of this chapter, the beneficial interest in the honey must always have been in the producer-member who delivered the honey to the CMA or its member CMA's, except as otherwise provided in this section. Honey delivered to such a CMA is not be eligible for loans if the producer-member who delivered the honey does not retain the right to share in the proceeds from the marketing of the honey as provided in part 1425 of this chapter.
(d) A producer may, before the final date for obtaining a loan for honey, re-offer as loan honey any honey that has been previously pledged if the loan was repaid with principal plus interest, the loan on such re-offered honey will have the same maturity date as the original loan.
[66 FR 15177, Mar. 15, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 64480, Oct. 18, 2002; 74 FR 15656, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 139, 141, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1434.7
Approved storage.
(a) Loans will be made only on honey in approved storage, which will consist of a storage structure located on or off the farm that is determined by CCC to be under the control of the producer and affords safe storage for honey pledged as collateral for a loan. If the honey located in a farm storage structure is pledged as collateral that secures more than one loan, the honey must be segregated so as to preserve the identity of the honey securing such loan. Honey securing a loan must also be segregated from any honey not pledged as collateral for a loan that is stored in the same structure.
(b) Producers may also obtain loans on honey packed in eligible containers and stored in facilities owned by third parties in which the honey of more than one person is stored if the honey that is to be pledged as collateral for a loan and that is stored identity preserved or is segregated from all other honey. Each container of the segregated quantity of honey must be marked with the producer's name, loan number, and lot number so as to identify the honey from other honey stored in the structure.
[66 FR 15177, Mar. 15, 2001, as amended at 80 FR 139, 141, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1434.8
Containers and drums.
(a)(1) To be eligible for assistance under this part, honey must be packed in:
(i) CCC-approved, 5-gallon plastic containers;
(ii) 5-gallon metal containers;
(iii) Steel drums with a capacity not less than 5 gallons nor greater than 70 gallons, or
(iv) Plastic Intermediate Bulk Containers (IBC's).
(2) Honey stored in plastic containers must be determined safe and secure from all possibility of contamination.
(3) Honey storage containers used for these purposes must meet requirements of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as amended and other specified requirements, as determined by CCC and must be generally fit for the purpose for which they are to be used.
(4) CCC-approved 5-gallon plastic containers must hold approximately 60 pounds of honey. The containers must be free and clear of leakage and punctures and of suitable purity for food contact use and meet food storage standards as provided by CCC. Plastic containers must be new or previously used only to store honey. Plastic containers previously used to store chemicals, pesticides, or any other product or substance other than honey are ineligible for honey storage. The handle of each container must be firm and strong enough to permit carrying the filled container. The cover opening must not be damaged in any way that will prevent a tight seal. Containers that have been punctured and resealed will not be acceptable;
(5) The 5-gallon metal containers must hold approximately 60 pounds of honey, and must be new, clean, sound, uncased, and free from appreciable dents and rusts. The handle of each container must be firm and strong enough to permit carrying the filled container. The cover and container opening must not be damaged in any way that will prevent a tight seal. Containers that are punctured or have been punctured and resealed by soldering will not be acceptable; and
(6) The steel drums must be an open type and filled no closer than 2 inches from the top of the drums. Drums must be new or must be used drums that have been reconditioned inside and outside. Drums must be clean, treated inside and outside to prevent rusting, fitted with gaskets that provide a tight seal and have an inside coating suitable for honey storage.
(7) IBC's are bulk containers with a polyethylene inner bottle and a galvanized steel protective cage, a capacity
of either 275 or 330 gallons, and are reusable. IBC's must be clean, sound and provide a tight seal.
(b) Honey is not be eligible to be pledged as collateral for loans if such honey is stored in:
(1) 55-gallon steel drums having a tare weight less than 38 pounds, 30-gallon steel drums having a tare weight less than 26 pounds, or drums having removable liners of polyethylene or other materials;
(2) Bung-type drums;
(3) Bulk tanks;
(4) Containers that do not meet the specified requirements of paragraph (a) of this section or other CCC specifications or requirements.
(5) Steel drums that are severely enough dented as to cause damage to their lining, improper seal, or stacking capabilities; and
(6) Rusted drums with corroded areas.
[66 FR 15177, Mar. 15, 2001, as amended at 69 FR 52169, Aug. 25, 2004; 80 FR 139, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1434.9
Determination of quantity.
The amount of a marketing assistance loan or loan deficiency payment will be based on 100 percent of the net weight in pounds of such quantity that is eligible to be pledged as security for the MAL or LDP and is certified by the producer and verified by the county office representative in the manner prescribed by CCC. Estimates of the quantity of honey will be made on the basis of 12 pounds for each gallon of the rated capacity of the container.
[80 FR 140, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1434.10
Application, availability, disbursement, and maturity.
(a) A producer must, unless otherwise authorized by CCC, request MALs and LDPs at the appropriate FSA county office responsible for administering the program as provided under part 718 of this title. To receive MALs and LDPs for honey, a producer must execute a note and security agreement or LDP application on or before March 31 of the year following the year in which the honey was extracted.
(b) A producer must request a loan at the county office of the county where the honey is stored if the honey is stored at the producer's farm. A producer who requests a loan on honey stored in eligible storage other than the producer's farm, may request loans at either the county office of the county where the storage facility is located or at the county office of the county where the producer's main place of business is located. A CMA must request loans at the county office for the county in which the principal office of the CMA is located unless the State committee designates another county office. If the CMA has operations in two or more States, the CMA must file its loan applications at the county office for the county in which its principal office for each State is located.
(c) MALs will be made on the honey as declared and certified by the producer in the manner specified by CCC at the time the honey is pledged as collateral for a MAL. The producer is also required to declare and certify the class of honey (table or non-table) and floral source of the honey in the manner specified by CCC when the honey is pledged as collateral for a MAL.
(d) The request for a loan will not be approved until all producers having an interest in the honey sign the note and security agreement and CCC approves such note and security agreement. The disbursement of loans will be made by county offices on behalf of CCC, for honey that:
(1) Has been extracted;
(2) Is in eligible storage; and
(3) Has not been blended or mixed with ineligible honey.
(e) MALs mature on demand, but not later than the last day of the ninth calendar month following the month in which the note and security agreement was approved.
(1) When the maturity date falls on a non-workday for county offices, CCC will extend the final date to the next workday. Before the date specified in paragraph (a) of this section, a producer may re-offer as MAL collateral any eligible honey that has been offered previously for a MAL if the previous MAL has been repaid at principal plus interest only.
(2) The maturity date of any MAL may not be extended.
(f) If, after a loan is made, CCC determines that the producer or the honey
collateral is not in compliance with any of the provisions of this part, the producer must refund the total amount disbursed under loan and charges plus interest, including late payment interest as provided in part 1403 of this title.
[66 FR 15177, Mar. 15, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 64481, Oct. 18, 2002; 80 FR 140, 141, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1434.11
Fees and interest.
(a) A producer must pay a nonrefundable MAL service fee. The MAL service fee will be the smaller of one-half of 1 percent (.005) times the gross MAL amount or $45 per MAL plus $3 for each storage structure over one.
(b) Interest that accrues with respect to a loan wil be determined in accordance with part 1405 of this chapter.
[66 FR 15177, Mar. 15, 2001, as amended at 80 FR 140, 141, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1434.12
Liens.
(a) CCC's security interest in the honey pledged as collateral is first and superior to all other security interests.
(b) The county office will file or record, as required by State law, all financing statements needed to perfect a security interest in honey pledged as collateral for a loan. The cost of filing and recording will be for the account of CCC.
(c) If there are any other security interests, liens, or encumbrances on the honey, CCC will obtain waivers that fully protect the interest of CCC even though the security interests, liens, or encumbrances are satisfied from the loan proceeds. No additional security interests, liens, or encumbrances will be placed on the honey after the loan is approved.
[66 FR 15177, Mar. 15, 2001, as amended at 80 FR 141, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1434.13
Transfer of producer's interest prohibited.
Absent written approval from CCC, the producer may not transfer either the remaining interest in, or right to redeem, the honey pledged as collateral for a MAL on honey nor may anyone acquire such interest or right. Subject to the provisions of § 1434.17, a producer who wishes to liquidate all or part of a MAL by contracting for the sale of the honey must obtain written approval from the county office on a form prescribed by CCC to remove a specified quantity of the honey from storage. Any such approval will be subject to the terms and conditions in the applicable form, copies of which may be obtained by producers at the FSA county office.
[80 FR 140, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1434.14
Loss or damage.
The producer is responsible for any loss in quantity or quality of the honey pledged as collateral for a loan. CCC will not assume any loss in quantity or quality of the loan collateral.
[66 FR 15177, Mar. 15, 2001, as amended at 80 FR 141, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1434.15
Personal liability..
(a) As part of the application for an individual or joint MAL or LDP, each producer agrees that:
(1) By signing the MAL note and security agreement, the producer must:
(i) Provide correct, accurate, and truthful certifications and representations of the loan quantity and all other matters of fact and interest; and
(ii) Not remove or dispose of any amount of the loan quantity without prior written approval from CCC in accordance with this section.
(2) That violation of the terms and conditions of this part and the MAL note and security agreement will cause harm or damage to CCC in that funds may be disbursed to the producer for a MAL quantity that is not actually in existence or for a quantity for which the producer is not eligible.
(b) For the purposes of this section, violations include any failure to comply with this part or the loan agreement, including but not limited to any incorrect certification or:
(1) Unauthorized removal of honey, which includes, but is not limited to, the movement of any loan quantity of honey from the storage structure in the commodity was stored when the loan was approved to any other storage structure whether or not such structure is located on the producer's farm without prior written authorization from the county committee in accordance with § 1434.14;
(2) Any unauthorized disposition, which includes, but is not limited to, the conversion of any loan quantity pledged as collateral for a loan without prior written authorization from the county committee in accordance with this section.
(c) The producer and CCC agree that it will be difficult, if not impossible, to prove the amount of damages to CCC for conduct that is in violation of this section. Accordingly, if the county committee determines that the producer has engaged in any such violation, liquidated damages will be assessed in addition to any loan refund and other charges that may be due. The amount of such damages will be computed using the quantity of honey that is involved in the violation and the following formula. If CCC determines the producer:
(1) Acted in good faith when the violation occurred, liquidated damages will be assessed by multiplying the quantity involved in the violation by 10 percent of the loan rate applicable to the loan note for each offense.
(2) Did not act in good faith with regard to the violation, or for cases other than the first or second offense, liquidated damages will be assessed by multiplying the quantity involved in the violation by 10 percent of the loan rate applicable to the loan note.
(d) For liquidated damages assessed in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the county committee will:
(1) Require repayment of the loan principal applicable to the loan quantity involved in the violation plus charges and interest; and
(2) If the producer fails to pay such amount within 30 calendar days from the date of notification, call the applicable loan for all of the honey under loan, plus charges and interest.
(e) For liquidated damages assessed in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the county committee will call the loan involved in the violation, and charges plus interest.
(f) The county committee:
(1) May waive the administrative actions taken in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1) and (d) of this section if the county committee determines that:
(i) The violation occurred inadvertently, accidentally, or unintentionally; or
(ii) The producer acted to prevent spoilage of the commodity.
(2) Will not consider the following acts as inadvertent, accidental, or unintentional:
(i) Movement of loan collateral off the farm;
(ii) Movement of loan collateral from one storage structure to another on the farm; and (iii) Consumption of loan collateral.
(g) If there is any violation of the loan agreement or this part, the loan may be terminated in which case there must be a full refund of the loan plus interest and costs.
(h) If the county committee determines that the producer has violated this part or the loan agreement, the county committee will notify the producer in writing that:
(1) The producer has 30 calendar days to provide evidence and information regarding the circumstances that caused the violation, to the county committee, and
(2) Administrative actions will be taken in accordance with paragraphs (d) or (e) of this section.
(i)(1) If a producer:
(i) Makes any fraudulent or misleading representation in obtaining a loan, maintaining, or settling a loan; or
(ii) Disposes or moves the loan collateral without the approval of CCC, such loan shall become payable upon demand by CCC. The producer is liable for:
(A) The amount of the loan;
(B) Any additional amounts paid by CCC with respect to the loan;
(C) All other costs that CCC would not have incurred but for the fraudulent representation, the unauthorized disposition or movement of the loan collateral;
(D) Interest on such amounts;
(E) Late payment interest as may be provided for in part 1403 of this title; and
(F) Liquidated damages assessed under paragraph (c) of this section; and
(2) Notwithstanding any provisions of the note and security agreement, if a producer has made any such fraudulent
or misleading representation to CCC or if the producer has disposed of, or moved, the loan collateral without prior written approval from CCC in accordance with this section, the value of the settlement for such collateral removed by CCC is determined by CCC according to this section.
(j) A producer is personally liable for any damages resulting from honey removed by CCC, containing mercurial compounds or other substances poisonous to humans, animals, or food commodities that are contaminated.
(k) If the amount disbursed under a loan or in settlement thereof exceeds the amount authorized under this part, the producer is personally liable for repayment of such excess and charges, plus interest, and for any other sanction as may be allowed by law.
(l) If the amount collected from the producer in satisfaction of the loan is less than the amount required in accordance with this part, the producer is personally liable for repayment of the amount of such deficiency and charges, plus interest.
(m) In the case of joint MALs, the personal liability for the amounts specified in this section are joint and several on the part of each producer signing the MAL note. Further, each producer who is a party to a joint MAL will be jointly and severally liable for any violation of the terms and conditions of the note and security agreement, and the regulations in this part. Each such producer also remains liable for repayment of the entire MAL amount until the MAL is fully repaid without regard to such producer's claimed share in the honey, or MAL proceeds, after execution of the note and security agreement by CCC.
(n) Any or all of the liquidated damages assessed in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section may be waived as determined by CCC.
(o) Remedies set out in this section are in addition to remedies the CCC will have through its security interest on honey that secures the repayment of the loan made on the honey.
(p) All remedies provided for in this section or part are in addition to any remedies as may otherwise be provided for in law.
[66 FR 15177, Mar. 15, 2001, as amended at 74 FR 15657, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 140, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1434.16
Release of the honey pledged as collateral for a MAL.
(a)(1) A producer may not move or dispose of any honey pledged as collateral for a loan until prior written approval for such removal or disposition has been received from the county committee in accordance with this section.
(2) A producer may at any time obtain a release of all or part of the honey remaining as loan collateral by paying to CCC the amount of the loan and any charges that had been made by CCC to the producer with respect to the quantity of the honey released, plus interest.
(3) When the proceeds of a sale of honey are needed to repay all or part of a farm stored MAL, the producer must request and obtain prior written approval of the county office on a form prescribed by CCC in order to remove a specified quantity of the honey from storage. Any such approval will be subject to the terms and conditions in the applicable form, copies of which may be obtained by producers at the county office. Any such approval will not constitute a release of CCC's security interest in the commodity or release the producer from liability for any amounts due and owing to CCC with respect to any MAL indebtedness if full payment of such amounts is not received by the county office.
(b) The note and security agreement will not be released until all loan liability has been satisfied in full.
(c) After satisfaction of a MAL, CCC will release CCC's security interest in the honey at the producer's request. The producer is responsible for payment of any fee for such release if such fee can be determined.
[66 FR 15177, Mar. 15, 2001, as amended at 80 FR 140, 141, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1434.17
Liquidation of loans.
(a) The producer is required to repay the loan on or before maturity by payment of the amount of loan, plus any charges, plus interest.
(b) If a producer fails to settle the loan in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section within 30 calendar days from the maturity date of such loan, or other reasonable time period as established by CCC, a claim for the loan amount, plus charges, plus interest will be established. CCC will inform the producer before the maturity date of the loan of the date by which the loan must be settled or a claim will be established in accordance with part 1403 of this title.
[66 FR 15177, Mar. 15, 2001, as amended at 80 FR 141, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1434.18
Loan repayments.
(a) A honey producer may repay a nonrecourse MAL during the loan period at a rate that is the lesser of:
(1) The principal, plus interest; or
(2) The alternative repayment rate for honey as determined by the Secretary.
(3) In the event of a severe disruption to marketing, transportation, or related infrastructure, the Secretary may modify the repayment rate otherwise applicable under this section for MALs. Any adjustment made to the repayment rate for MALs for honey under this part will be in effect on a short-term and temporary basis, as determined by the Secretary.
(b) To the extent practicable, CCC will determine and announce the alternative repayment rate, based upon the prevailing domestic market price for honey, on a monthly basis.
[66 FR 15177, Mar. 15, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 64481, Oct. 18, 2002; 74 FR 15657, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 140, 141, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1434.19
Settlement.
(a) The value of the settlement of loans will be made by CCC on the following basis:
(1) With respect to nonrecourse loans, the schedule of premiums and discounts for the commodity:
(i) If the value of the collateral at settlement is less than the amount due, the producer must pay to CCC the amount of such deficiency and charges, plus interest on such deficiency; or
(ii) If the value of the collateral at settlement is greater than the amount due, the excess will be paid to the producer or, if applicable, to the producer and any secured creditor of the producer.
(2) With respect to honey that is delivered from other than an approved warehouse, settlement will be made by CCC on the basis of the basic loan rate that is in effect for the commodity at the producer's customary delivery point, as determined by CCC.
(b) CCC will not assume any loss in quantity or quality of the loan collateral for honey MALs.
[66 FR 15177, Mar. 15, 2001, as amended at 80 FR 140, 141, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1434.20
Foreclosure.
(a) Upon maturity and nonpayment of the loan, title to the unredeemed honey securing the loan will vest in CCC.
(b) If the total amount due on a loan or the unpaid amount of the note and charges, plus interest is not satisfied upon maturity, CCC may remove the honey from storage and assign, transfer, and deliver the honey or documents evidencing title thereto at such time, in such manner, and upon such terms as CCC may determine at public or private sale. Any such disposition may also be effected without removing the honey from storage. The honey may be processed before sale and CCC may become the purchaser of the whole or any part of the honey at either a public or private sale.
(1) If the value of the collateral computed at settlement is less than the amount due, the producer must pay to CCC the amount of such deficiency and charges, plus interest on such deficiency and CCC may take any action against the producer to recover the deficiency; or
(2) If the proceeds received from the sale of the honey so computed are greater than the sum of the amount due plus any cost incurred by CCC in conducting the sale of the honey, such excess will be paid to the producer or, if applicable, to any secured creditor of the producer.
[66 FR 15177, Mar. 15, 2001, as amended at 80 FR 141, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1434.21
Loan deficiency payments.
(a) LDPs will be available for honey.
(b) In order to be eligible to receive LDP for a crop of honey, the producer must:
(1) Comply with all of the program requirements to be eligible to obtain loan in accordance with this part;
(2) Agree to forego obtaining such loans;
(3) Submitted a request for a honey LDP on the form as CCC prescribes.
(4) Comply with §§ 1434.7 and 1434.8 or provide evidence of production as determined by CCC for such quantity; and
(5) Otherwise comply with all program requirements.
(c) The LDP rate for a crop will be the amount by which the MAL rate exceeds the rate at which CCC has announced that producers may repay their MAL as specified in § 1434.18.
(d) The LDP applicable to a crop of honey will be computed by multiplying the LDP rate, as determined as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, by the quantity of honey the producer is eligible to pledge as collateral for a price support MAL for which an LDP is requested.
(e) Notwithstanding any provisions in this section, LDPs may be based on 100 percent of the net quantity specified on acceptable evidence of disposition of the honey certified as eligible for an LDP if CCC determines that such quantity represented the quantity for the number of containers of honey initially certified for the LDP when the payment was made.
(f) When applying for an individual LDP, each producer agrees:
(1) The producer will provide correct, accurate, and truthful certifications and representations of the loan quantity and all other matters of fact and interest when submitting a request for a honey LDP; and
(2) That violation of the terms and conditions of this part will cause harm or damage to CCC in that funds may be disbursed to the producer for a LDP quantity that is not actually in existence or for a quantity for which the producer is not eligible.
(g) For the purposes of this section, violations include any failure to comply with this part or the loan agreement, including but not limited to any incorrect certification.
[66 FR 15177, Mar. 15, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 64481, Oct. 18, 2002; 74 FR 15657, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 141, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1434.22
Death, incompetency, or disappearance; appeals; other loan provisions.
(a) In the case of death, incompetency, or disappearance of any producer who is entitled to the payment of any sum in settlement of a loan, payment will, upon proper application to the county office that made the loan, be made to the persons who would be entitled to such producer's share under the regulations contained in part 707 of this title. Applications for loans may be made upon application of a representative of the producer as allowed under standard practice for farm programs.
(b) Appeals of adverse decisions made under this part will be subject to the provisions of 7 CFR parts 11 and 780.
[66 FR 15177, Mar. 15, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 64481, Oct. 18, 2002. Redesignated at 74 FR 15657, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 141, Jan. 2, 2015]
Pt. 1435

# PART 1435—SUGAR PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
1435.1
Applicability.
1435.2
Definitions.
1435.3
Maintenance of records.
1435.4
Administration.
1435.5
Other regulations.

# Subpart B—Sugar Loan Program
1435.100
Applicability.
1435.101
Loan rates.
1435.102
Eligibility requirements.
1435.103
Availability, disbursement, and maturity of loans.
1435.104
Loan maintenance.
1435.105
Loan settlement and foreclosure.
1435.106
Miscellaneous provisions.

# Subpart C—Information Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements
1435.200
Information reporting.
1435.201
Civil penalties.

# Subpart D—Flexible Marketing Allotments For Sugar
1435.300
Applicability.
1435.301
Annual estimates and quarterly re-estimates.
1435.302
Establishment of allotments.
1435.303
Adjustment of the overall allotment quantity.
1435.304
Beet and cane allotments.
1435.305
State cane sugar allotments.
1435.306
Allocation of marketing allotments to processors.
1435.307
Transfer of allocation.
1435.308
New entrants.
1435.309
Reassignment of deficits.
1435.310
Sharing processors' allocations with producers.
1435.311
Proportionate shares for sugarcane producers.
1435.312
Establishment of acreage bases under proportionate shares.
1435.313
Permanent transfer of acreage base histories under proportionate shares.
1435.314
Temporary transfer of proportionate share due to disasters.
1435.315
Adjustments to proportionate shares.
1435.316
Acreage reports for purposes of proportionate shares.
1435.317
Revision of allocations and proportion shares.
1435.318
Penalties and assessments.
1435.319
Appeals and arbitration.

# Subpart E—Disposition of CCC Inventory
1435.400
General statement.
1435.401
CCC sugar inventory disposition.

# Subpart F—Processor Sugar Payment-In-Kind (PIK) Program
1435.500
General statement.
1435.501
Bid submission procedures.
1435.502
Bid selection procedures.
1435.503
In-kind payments.
1435.504
Timing of distribution of CCC-owned sugar.
1435.505
Miscellaneous provisions.

# Subpart G—Feedstock Flexibility Program
1435.600
General statement.
1435.601
Sugar surplus determination and public announcement.
1435.602
Eligible sugar to be purchased by CCC.
1435.603
Eligible sugar seller.
1435.604
Eligible sugar buyer.
1435.605
Competitive procedures.
1435.606
Miscellaneous.
1435.607
Appeals.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1359aa-1359jj, 7272, and 8110; 15 U.S.C. 714b and 714c.

# Source:
67 FR 54928, Aug. 26, 2002, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 1435.1
Applicability.
(a) The regulations in this part specify the terms and conditions under which the Farm Service Agency (FSA) will administer the Sugar Program for the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) to:
(1) Make loans and enter agreements with eligible processors,
(2) Collect data from sugarcane processors, sugar beet processors, cane refiners, and importers of sugar, syrup, and molasses,
(3) Administer sugar marketing allotments, and
(4) Administer an inventory disposition program to sell CCC inventory to bioenergy producers and exchange CCC inventory for processor reductions in production or certificates of quota entry.
(b) [Reserved]
[67 FR 54928, Aug. 26, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 15363, Apr. 6, 2009; 80 FR 141, Jan. 2, 2015]
§ 1435.2
Definitions.
The definitions set forth in this section are applicable for all purposes of program administration. Terms defined in part 718 of this title are also applicable.
Ability to market
means, for purposes of determining the State cane sugar allotments and sugarcane processor allocations for Hawaii and Puerto Rico, the estimated quantity of sugar, raw value, as CCC determines, that will be produced in the cane State or by the sugarcane processor, as appropriate, during the applicable crop year; for determining the remaining State cane sugar allotments, the highest single year of sugar production for the State during the 1999 through 2003 crop years; for determining the sugarcane processor allocations for mainland cane States other than Louisiana, the highest single year of sugar production for the processor during the 1999 through 2003 crop years; and, for determining the sugarcane processor allocations for Louisiana, the simple average of two amounts for each processor, including:
(1) The production of sugar for the processor, stated in short tons, raw
value, during Crop Year 2003, as determined by CCC; and
(2) The simple average of 3 years of the processor's production of sugar, stated in short tons, raw value, from among the 1999 through 2003 crop years, excluding the year in which the production was the highest and the year in which the production was the lowest. With respect to the 2003 crop year, each processor's production shall be the same as determined under paragraph (1).
Allocation
means the division of the beet sugar allotment among the sugar beet processors in the United States and the division of each State's cane sugar allotment among the State's sugarcane processors.
Beet sugar
means sugar that is processed directly or indirectly from sugar beets, sugar beet molasses, or in-process beet sugar, whether produced domestically or imported.
Beet sugar allotment
means that portion of the overall allotment quantity allocated to sugar beet processors.
CCC
means the Commodity Credit Corporation.
Cane sugar
means sugar derived directly or indirectly from sugarcane produced in the United States, including sugar produced from sugarcane molasses.
Cane sugar allotment
means that portion of the overall allotment quantity allocated to sugarcane processors.
Cane sugar refiner
means any person in the U.S. Customs Territory that refines raw cane sugar through affination or defecation, clarification, and further purification by absorption or crystallization.
Carry-in stocks
means inventories of sugar owned by sugar beet processors, sugarcane processors, cane sugar refiners, and CCC and physically located in the United States at the beginning of the fiscal year.
Crop year
means the period from October 1 through September 30, inclusive, and is identified by the year in which the crop year begins. For example, the 2002 crop year begins on October 1, 2002. The 2002 crop of sugar beets or sugar cane means domestically grown sugar beets or sugar cane processed during the 2002 crop year. The 2002 crop of sugar means sugar processed from domestically-grown sugar beets or sugarcane during the 2002 crop year. Sugar from de-sugaring molasses is considered to be from the crop year the de-sugaring occurred.
Deputy Administrator
means the Deputy Administrator, Farm Programs, FSA, or designee.
Deficit
means the quantity of sugar covered by an allocation of an allotment that CCC estimates a sugar beet processor or sugarcane processor will be unable to market during the crop year in which marketing allotments are in effect.
Edible molasses
means molasses that is not to be further refined or improved in quality and that is to be distributed for human consumption, either directly or in molasses-containing products.
Edible syrups
means syrups that are not to be further refined or improved in quality and that are to be distributed for human consumption, either directly or in syrup-containing products.
Executive Vice President, CCC,
means the Executive Vice President, CCC, or designee.
Facility
means a factory, mill, or plant.
Farm
means that entity as defined in § 718 of this title, except that when a State is subject to proportionate shares, producers will not be allowed to have farms reconstituted across State lines even if the farm land is adjoining.
Fiscal year
means that year beginning October 1 and ending the following September 30.
FSA
means Farm Service Agency.
Human consumption
means sugar for use in human food, beverages, or similar products.
Imports
means sugar originating in foreign countries or areas and entered, or to be entered, into the United States customs territory.
In-process beet sugar
means the intermediate sugar-containing product, as CCC determines, produced from processing sugar beets. Like sugar beets, it is considered an input into the production of sugar regardless of whether it is produced domestically or imported.
In-process cane sugar
means the intermediate sugar-containing product, as CCC determines, produced from the processing of sugarcane. It is not raw
sugar, nor is it suitable for direct human consumption.
Market or marketing
means the transfer of title associated with the sale or other disposition of sugar for human consumption in United States commerce. A marketing also includes a sale of sugar under the Feedstock Flexibility Program, the forfeiture of sugar loan collateral under the Sugar Loan Program, exportation of sugar from the United States Customs Territory eligible to receive credits under reexport programs for refined sugar or sugar-containing products administered by the Foreign Agricultural Service, or the sale of sugar eligible to receive credit for the production of polyhydric alcohol under the Polyhydric Alcohol program (see part 1530 of this title) administered by the Foreign Agricultural Service, and for any integrated processor and refiner, the movement of raw cane sugar into the refining process.
Nonrecourse loan
means a loan for which eligible sugar offered as loan collateral may be forfeited to CCC, at loan maturity, in satisfaction of loan indebtedness.
Overall allotment quantity
means, on a national basis, the total quantity of domestically produced sugar, raw value, processed from sugarcane, sugar beets or in-process beet sugar (whether the sugar beets or in-process beet sugar are produced domestically or imported), and the raw value equivalent of sugar in sugar products, that is permitted to be marketed by processors, during a crop year or other period in which marketing allotments are in effect.
Past marketings
means, for purposes of determining State cane sugar allotments and sugarcane processor allocations for States other than Louisiana, the average of the 2 highest years of sugar production during the 1996 through 2000 crop years; for Louisiana sugarcane processor allocations, the average of the 2 highest years of sugar production during the 1997 through 2001 crop years.
Past processing
means, for determining Hawaii and Puerto Rico's allotments, the 3-year average of the 1998 through 2000 crop years; and for determining the remaining cane State allotments, the 3 crop years with the greatest production (in the States collectively) during the 1991 through 2000 crop years. Past processing, for determining the sugarcane processor allocation for States other than Louisiana, means the average of the 3 highest years of production during the 1996 through 2000 crop years; and, for determining sugarcane processor allocations in Louisiana, the average of the 2 highest years of sugar production during the 1997 through 2001 crop years.
Per-acre yield goal
means a State's yield level that is established at not less than the State's two highest average per-acre yield years from among the 1999 through 2001 crop years as CCC determines to ensure an adequate net return per pound to State producers.
Proportionate share
means the total acreage from which a producer may harvest sugarcane for sugar or seed during any crop year or other period in which marketing allotments are in effect.
Proportionate share State
means a State with an established allotment and more than 250 sugarcane producers in the State, other than Puerto Rico.
Raw sugar
means any sugar that is to be further refined or improved in quality other than in-process sugar.
Raw value
of any quantity of sugar means its equivalent in terms of raw sugar testing 96 sugar degrees, as determined by a polarimetric test performed under procedures recognized by the International Commission for Uniform Methods of Sugar Analysis (ICUMSA). Direct-consumption sugar derived from sugar beets and testing 92 or more sugar degrees by the polariscope shall be translated into terms of raw value by multiplying the actual number of pounds of such sugar by 1.07. Sugar derived from sugarcane and testing 92 sugar degrees or more by the polariscope shall be translated into terms of raw value in the following manner: raw value = {[(actual degree of polarization − 92) × 0.0175] + 0.93} × actual weight. For sugar testing less than 92 sugar degrees by the polariscope, derive raw value by dividing the number of pounds of the “total sugar content” (
i.e.,
the sum of the sucrose and invert sugars) thereof by 0.972.
Reasonable carryover stocks
means desirable inventories of sugar owned by sugar beet processors, sugarcane processors, cane sugar refiners, and CCC and on hand in the United States at the end of the fiscal year, as CCC determines.
State
means any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
Sugar
means any grade or type of saccharine product derived, directly or indirectly, from sugarcane, sugar beets, sugarcane molasses, sugar beet molasses or in-process beet sugar whether domestically produced or imported and consisting of, or containing, sucrose or invert sugar, including raw sugar, refined crystalline sugar, edible molasses, edible cane syrup, liquid sugar, and in-process cane sugar.
Sugar beet processor
means a person who commercially produces sugar, directly or indirectly, from sugar beets, sugar beet molasses, or in-process beet sugar.
Sugar products
means products for human consumption, other than sugar, that contain 50 percent or more of sucrose, on a dry weight basis, and that are marketed by a sugar beet processor or sugarcane processor. In determining sugar subject to marketing allocations, only the sugar content of such products will be counted against the allocation.
Sugarcane processor
means a person who commercially produces sugar, directly or indirectly, from sugarcane, has a viable processing facility, and a supply of sugarcane for the applicable allotment year.
Ton
means a short ton or 2,000 pounds.
United States
means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
U.S. market value
means, for sugarcane, the daily New York Board of Trade No. 14 contract price for raw sugar, or other price, as determined by CCC; for sugar beets, the Midwest refined beet sugar price published in Milling and Baking News, or other price, as determined by CCC.
USDA
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
[67 FR 54928, Aug. 26, 2002, as amended at 69 FR 55062, Sept. 13, 2004; 74 FR 15363, Apr. 6, 2009]
§ 1435.3
Maintenance of records.
(a) Each sugar beet processor, sugarcane processor, importer of sugars, syrups and molasses, and cane sugar refiner or any person having custody of records required by CCC to operate the sugar program must retain such books, records, accounts, and other written or electronic data for not less than 3 years from the date:
(1) A loan is disbursed under subpart B;
(2) Market data are reported to CCC under subpart C of this part; and
(3) Marketings are conducted under marketing allotments under subpart D of this part.
(b) [Reserved]
[67 FR 54928, Aug. 26, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 15364, Apr. 6, 2009]
§ 1435.4
Administration.
(a) This program shall be administered under the general supervision of the Executive Vice President, CCC, and may be carried out in the field by FSA State and county committees.
(b) State and county committees, and representatives and employees thereof, may not modify or waive any of the provisions of part 1435.
(c) The State committee shall take any action required by this part that the county committee has not taken. The State committee shall also:
(1) Correct, or require a county committee to correct, a county committee action not under this part; or
(2) Require a county committee to withhold taking any action not under this part.
(d) No provision or delegation herein to a State or county committee shall preclude the Executive Vice President, CCC, from determining any question arising under the program or from reversing or modifying any State or county committee determination.
(e) The Deputy Administrator may authorize State and county committees to waive or modify deadlines and other program requirements in cases where lateness or failure to meet such
requirements do not adversely affect program operation.
(f) A CCC representative may execute loans and related documents only under the terms and conditions CCC determines and announces. Any such document not executed under such terms and conditions, including any purported execution before the CCC-authorized date, shall be null and void.
§ 1435.5
Other regulations.
The following are applicable to this part:
(a) Part 707—Payments due persons who have died, disappeared, or have been declared incompetent.
(b) Part 718—Provisions applicable to multiple programs.
(c) Part 780—Appeal regulations.
(d) Part 1403—Debt settlement policies and procedures.
(e) Part 1405—Loans, purchases, and other operations.

# Subpart B—Sugar Loan Program
§ 1435.100
Applicability.
(a) The regulations of this subpart set forth the terms and conditions under which CCC will make nonrecourse loans available to eligible processors. Additional terms and conditions are set forth in the loan application and note and security agreement that a processor must execute to receive a loan.
(b) Loan rates used in administering the loan program are available in FSA State and county offices.
(c) Loans shall not be available for sugar produced from imported sugar beets, sugarcane, molasses, syrups and in-process sugar.
§ 1435.101
Loan rates.
(a) The national average loan rate for raw cane sugar produced from domestically grown sugarcane may be established based on rates that comply with applicable statutes, and may be adjusted by CCC to reflect grade, type, quality, and other factors as applicable.
(b) The national average loan rate for refined beet sugar from domestically grown sugar beets may be established based on rates that comply with applicable statutes, and may be adjusted by CCC to reflect grade, type, quality, and other factors as applicable
(c) Loan rates for eligible sugar are adjusted to reflect the processing location of the sugar offered as loan collateral.
(d) Loan rates for eligible in-process sugar shall equal 80 percent of the loan rate applicable to raw cane sugar or beet sugar on the basis of the expected production of raw sugar or beet sugar from the in-process sugar or syrups.
[67 FR 54928, Aug. 26, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 15364, Apr. 6, 2009; 80 FR 141, Jan. 2, 2015; 86 FR 70708, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1435.102
Eligibility requirements.
(a) An eligible producer is the owner of a portion or all of the domestically-grown sugar beets or sugarcane, including share rent landowners, at both the time of harvest and the time of delivery to the processor, except those producers determined to be ineligible as a result of the regulations governing highly erodible land and wetland conservation found at 7 CFR part 12, regulations governing crop insurance at 7 CFR part 400, or regulations governing controlled substance violations at 7 CFR part 718.
(b) In addition to all other provisions of this part, a sugar beet or sugarcane processor is eligible for loans only if the processor has agreed to all the terms and conditions in the loan application, and has executed a note and security agreement, and storage agreement with CCC. No loan proceeds will be distributed by CCC before CCC's approval of the note and security agreement and the CCC storage agreement.
(c) Sugar pledged as collateral during the crop year:
(1) May not exceed the quantity derived from processing domestically-grown sugar beets or sugarcane from eligible producers during the applicable crop year;
(2) Must be processed and owned by the eligible processor and stored in a CCC-approved warehouse;
(3) May not have been processed from imported sugarcane, sugar beets in-process sugars, or molasses;
(4) Must have been processed in the United States; and
(5) Must have processor certification in the loan application that the sugar
or in-process sugar syrups are eligible and available to be pledged as collateral.
(d) Sugar and in-process sugar must meet the following minimum quality requirements to be eligible to be pledged as loan collateral:
(1) Refined beet sugar to be pledged as loan collateral must be:
(i) Dry and free flowing;
(ii) Free of excessive sediment; and
(iii) Free of any objectionable color, flavor, odor, or other characteristic that would impair its merchantability or that would impair or prevent its use for normal commercial purposes.
(2) Raw cane sugar to be pledged as loan collateral must be:
(i) Of reasonable grain size; and
(ii) Free of objectionable color, flavor, odor, moisture or other characteristic that would impair its merchantability or that would impair or prevent its use for normal refining and commercial purposes.
(3) Edible sugarcane syrup or edible molasses must be free from any objectionable color, flavor, odor, or other characteristic that would impair the merchantability of such syrup or molasses or would impair or prevent the use of such syrup or molasses for normal commercial purposes.
(4) In-process sugar must be of at least the minimum quality expected to commercially yield raw cane sugar or refined beet sugar, as determined by CCC.
(e) The loan collateral must be stored in a CCC-approved warehouse as described in 7 CFR part 1423.
[67 FR 54928, Aug. 26, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 15364, Apr. 6, 2009]
§ 1435.103
Availability, disbursement, and maturity of loans.
(a) Before obtaining a loan, a processor must:
(1) File a loan application, as CCC prescribes, no earlier than October 1 and no later than September 30 of the applicable crop year, with the State committee of the State where such processor is headquartered, or with a county committee designated by the State committee.
(2) Execute a note and security agreement, and storage agreement with CCC;
(3) Provide quantity and quality information as prescribed by CCC of the commodity to be pledged as collateral;
(4) Pay CCC a loan service fee, as determined by CCC, for the disbursement of each loan.
(5) If there are any liens or encumbrances on sugar or in-process sugar pledged as loan collateral, obtain waivers that fully protect CCC's interest even though the liens or encumbrances are satisfied from the loan proceeds. No additional liens or encumbrances shall be placed on the sugar after loan approval; and
(6) Agree to reimburse CCC for any costs incurred as a result of the failure of the processor to obtain the waivers specified in subparagraph (5).
(b) No loan proceeds may be disbursed until the sugar and in-process sugar have actually been produced and are otherwise established as being eligible to be pledged as loan collateral.
(c)(1) A processor may, within the loan availability period, repledge as collateral sugar that previously served as loan collateral for a repaid loan. In making application for such a loan, the processor shall:
(i) Specify that the loan collateral should be treated as a quantity of eligible sugar that previously served as loan collateral for a repaid loan; and
(ii) Designate the loan to which the reoffered loan collateral was originally pledged.
(2) The subsequent loan shall have the same maturity date as the original loan.
(3) Loan collateral repledged that was previously redeemed from CCC is not included in determining the total quantity of sugar on which loans have been obtained for purposes of § 1435.102.
(d) Raw cane sugar loan disbursements shall be made without regard to the actual polarity or quality factors of the sugar pledged as loan collateral but shall be made on the assumption that the polarity of such sugar is 96 degrees by the polariscope.
(e)(1) Loans will mature at the earlier of:
(i) the end of the 9-month period beginning on the 1st day of the first month after the month in which the loan is made; or
(ii) September 30 following disbursement of the loan.
(2) CCC may accelerate loan maturity dates under § 1435.105(h).
(f) Processors receiving loans in July, August, or September may repledge the sugar as collateral for a supplemental loan. Such supplemental loan must:
(1) Be requested by the processor during the following October;
(2) Be made at the loan rate in effect at the time the first loan was made; and
(3) Mature in 9 months less the number of months that the first loan was in effect.
[67 FR 54928, Aug. 26, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 15364, Apr. 6, 2009]
§ 1435.104
Loan maintenance.
(a) All processors receiving loans shall:
(1) Abide by the terms and conditions of the loan application, note and security agreement and storage agreement;
(2) Pay interest on the principal at a rate determined in part 1405 of this chapter.
(b) The security interests CCC obtains as a result of the execution of security agreements by sugarcane and sugar beet processors shall be superior to all statutory and common law liens on raw cane sugar, refined beet sugar, and in-process sugar for the producers of sugarcane and sugar beets and all prior recorded and unrecorded liens on the crops of sugarcane and sugar beets from which the sugar was derived.
(c) A processor receiving a loan under this part shall pay all eligible producers who have delivered or will deliver sugar beets or sugarcane to such processors for processing not less than the minimum payment levels CCC specifies for the applicable crop year.
(1) In the case of sugar beets, the minimum payment shall not exceed the rate of payment provided for under the applicable contract between a sugar beet producer and a sugar beet processor.
(2) In the case of sugarcane, CCC will annually determine and announce the annual grower minimum payment.
(3) Processors are ineligible for loans for the crop year following their failure to meet the required minimum grower payment.
(d)(1) A processor shall maintain eligible sugar or in-process sugar of sufficient quality and quantity as collateral to satisfy the processor's loan indebtedness to CCC. CCC shall not assume any loss in quantity or quality of the loan collateral.
(2) The processor is responsible for storage costs through the loan maturity date or title transfer to CCC, whichever occurs later.
(3) Sugar and in-process sugar pledged as loan collateral need not be stored identity preserved.
(4) When the proceeds of the sale of loan collateral are needed to repay all or part of a sugar loan, the processor may request and obtain prior written approval from the loan making office by executing a loan collateral release request, as prescribed by CCC, to remove a specified quantity of the loan collateral from storage for the purpose of delivering it to a buyer before loan repayment. Any such approval shall be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the applicable form. The loan making office shall not approve such a request unless the buyer of the sugar agrees to pay CCC an amount necessary to satisfy the processor's loan indebtedness regarding collateral being sold. Any such approval shall not:
(i) Constitute a release of CCC's security interest in the loan collateral; or
(ii) Relieve the processor of liability for the full amount of the loan indebtedness, including interest.
[67 FR 54928, Aug. 26, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 15364, Apr. 6, 2009]
§ 1435.105
Loan settlement and foreclosure.
(a) A processor may, any time before loan maturity, redeem all or any part of the loan collateral by paying CCC the applicable principal and interest.
(b) Forfeiture of sugar loan collateral will be accepted as payment in full of the principal and interest due under a nonrecourse loan, subject to applicable premiums and discounts based on the difference between specifications reported on the sugar loan certification report and actual loadout characteristics.
(c)(1) Forfeiture of in-process sugar serving as loan collateral will be accepted as payment in full of principal
and interest if the processor converts the in-process sugar into raw cane sugar or refined beet sugar of acceptable grade and quality for sugar eligible for loans within 1 month of loan maturity.
(2) The in-process sugar must be fully processed into raw cane sugar or refined beet sugar, before the processor shall transfer the sugar to CCC.
(3) On transfer of the sugar, CCC shall make a payment to the processor in an amount equal to the amount obtained by multiplying the difference between the loan rate for raw cane sugar or refined beet sugar, as appropriate, and the in-process loan rate the processor received by the quantity of sugar transferred to CCC. The loan agreement shall specify the quantity of sugar that can be forfeited to CCC.
(d) If the processor does not forfeit the collateral, but instead further processes the in-process sugar into raw cane sugar or refined beet sugar and repays the loan on the in-process sugar;
(1) the processor may obtain a loan for the raw cane sugar or refined beet sugar, as appropriate, and
(2) the term of a loan made under this subsection for a quantity of in-process sugar, when combined with the term of a loan made for the raw cane sugar or refined beet sugar derived from the in-process sugar, may not exceed 9 months.
(e) CCC shall not accept delivery of sugar in settlement of a nonrecourse loan in excess of the quantity of sugar that is shown on the note and security agreement minus any quantity that was redeemed or released for removal under this section.
(f) If the processor does not redeem any of the nonrecourse loan collateral, title to the unredeemed nonrecourse loan collateral as described in the note and security agreement will, without further CCC or processor action transfer to CCC in-store at the CCC-approved warehouse at 12 a.m. the next business day following the maturity date of the loan. Title, all rights, and interest to such sugar shall immediately vest in CCC.
(g) The value of the settlement of loans shall be made by CCC according to the CCC schedule of premiums and discounts.
(h) CCC may, at any time, accelerate the date for loan repayment including interest. CCC will give the processor notice of such acceleration at least 15 days in advance of the accelerated loan maturity date.
(i) If a processor's nonrecourse loan indebtedness is not satisfied under the provisions of this section or if forfeited in-process sugar is not converted to raw or refined sugar within the prescribed time:
(1) Interest on the processor's indebtedness shall accrue as specified in part 1403 of this title and shall accrue until the debt is paid;
(2) CCC may, upon notice, with or without removing the collateral from storage, sell such collateral at either a public or private sale;
(3) The processor shall be liable for the deficiency if the net proceeds are less than the amount of principal, interest, and any other charges CCC incurs; and
(4) If the processor forfeits the in-process sugar loan collateral but does not transfer raw or refined sugar of suitable quality to CCC within 1 month, CCC will charge liquidated damages, as provided in the loan agreement.
(j) The CCC rates for the storage of forfeited sugar to approved warehouses for each crop year of 2008 through 2011 will be at least:
(1) For refined sugar, 15 cents per hundredweight of refined sugar per month; and
(2) For raw cane sugar, 10 cents per hundredweight of raw cane sugar per month.
(3) For 2012 and subsequent crop years, rates for the storage of forfeited sugar will revert to those used before June 18, 2008.
(4) For sugar located in space not approved by CCC for storage, the payment rate will be zero until such time as the processor delivers such sugar to a CCC-approved warehouse.
[67 FR 54928, Aug. 26, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 15364, Apr. 6, 2009]
§ 1435.106
Miscellaneous provisions.
(a) The regulations governing setoffs and withholding set forth at parts 3 and 1403 of this title are applicable to the program set forth in this subpart.
(b) A producer or processor may obtain reconsideration and review of determinations made under this subpart under the regulations at parts 11 and 780 of this title.
(c) Any false certification, including those made for the purpose of enabling a processor to obtain a loan to which it is not entitled, will subject the person making such certification to liability under applicable Federal civil and criminal statutes.

# Subpart C—Information Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements
§ 1435.200
Information reporting.
(a) Every sugar beet processor, sugarcane processor, cane sugar refiner, and importer of sugar, syrup, and molasses shall report, by the 20th of each month, on CCC-required forms, its imports and receipts, processing inputs, production, distribution, stocks, and other information necessary to administer the sugar programs. If the 20th of the month falls on a weekend or a Federal holiday, the report shall be due the next business day.
(b) Any processor must, upon CCC's request, provide such information as CCC deems appropriate for determining regional loan rates.
(c) Any processor must, upon CCC's request, provide such information as CCC deems appropriate for determining whether processors of sugarcane or sugar beets will be able to market their respective sugar allocations.
(d) Each sugarcane producer located in Louisiana shall report, in the manner CCC prescribes, sugarcane yields and sugarcane planted acres.
(e) Importers of sugars, syrups, or molasses to be used for domestic human consumption or to be used for the extraction of sugar for domestic human consumption must report such information as CCC requires, including the quantities of the products imported and the sugar content or equivalent of the products.
(f) The Secretary will collect information on the production, consumption, stocks and trade of sugar in Mexico and publish the data in each edition of the World Agricultural Supply and Demand Estimates report.
(g) The Secretary will collect publicly available information on the production, consumption, and trade of high fructose corn syrup in Mexico and publish the data in each edition of the World Agricultural Supply and Demand Estimates report.
(h) Based on the information received under this subsection, the Secretary shall publish on a monthly basis composite data on sugar production, imports, distribution, and stock levels.
(i) By November 20 of each year, sugar beet processors, sugarcane processors, sugarcane refiners, and importers of sugars, syrups, and molasses, as selected by CCC, will submit to CCC a report, as specified by CCC, from an independent Certified Public Accountant that reviews its information submitted to CCC during the previous October 1 through September 30 period.
(j) The sugar information reporting and recordkeeping requirements of this subpart are administered under the general supervision of the Executive Vice President, CCC.
[67 FR 54928, Aug. 26, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 16200, Mar. 31, 2006; 74 FR 15365, Apr. 6, 2009]
§ 1435.201
Civil penalties.
(a) Any processor, refiner, or importer of sugar, syrup, and molasses who willfully fails or refuses to furnish the information, or who willfully furnishes false data required under § 1435.200(a) through (e), is subject to a civil penalty of no more than the amount specified at § 3.91(b)(10)(ii) of this title for each such violation.
(b) The Controller, CCC, shall assess civil penalties and interest.
(c) Affected processors, refiners, and importers of sugar, syrup, and molasses may request reconsideration of civil penalties by filing a request, within 30 days of receipt of certified written notification from the Controller, CCC, of such assessment of civil penalties, with the Executive Vice President, CCC, Stop 0501, 1400 Independence Ave. SW., Washington, DC 20250-0501.
(d) After reconsideration, affected processors, refiners, or importers of sugar, syrup, and molasses may appeal civil penalties by filing a notice of appeal, within 30 calendar days of receipt of certified written notification from
the Executive Vice President, CCC, of an affirmation of the assessment of civil penalties, with the National Appeals Division under part 780 of this title.
[67 FR 54928, Aug. 26, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 15635, Apr. 6, 2009; 75 FR 17561, Apr. 7, 2010]

# Subpart D—Flexible Marketing Allotments For Sugar
§ 1435.300
Applicability.
(a) This subpart applies to the establishment and allocation of marketing allotments for:
(1) Processor marketings of sugar domestically processed from sugar beets or in-process beet sugar, whether such sugar beets or in-process beet sugar were produced domestically or imported,
(2) Processor marketings of sugar processed from sugarcane,
(3) Distribution of a processor's allocation to producers in proportionate share States, and
(4) Harvesting sugarcane by producers subject to proportionate shares.
(b) This subpart does not apply to marketing imported raw or refined sugar.
(c) This subpart applies throughout the United States and Puerto Rico.
[67 FR 54928, Aug. 26, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 15365, Apr. 6, 2009]
§ 1435.301
Annual estimates and quarterly re-estimates.
(a) Not later than August 1 before the beginning of the crop year, CCC will estimate, and make re-estimates as necessary but not later than the beginning of each quarter of such crop year, the:
(1) Quantity of sugar that will be subject to human consumption in the United States during the crop year;
(2) Quantity of sugar that will provide for reasonable carryover stocks;
(3) Quantity of sugar that will be used for human consumption in the United States from carry-in stocks;
(4) Quantity of sugar that will be available from domestically processed sugarcane, sugar beets, and in-process beet sugar; and
(5) Quantity of sugars, syrups, and molasses that will be imported for human consumption or for the extraction of sugar for human consumption in the United States and Puerto Rico (other than sugar imported for the production of polyhydric alcohol or to be refined and re-exported in refined form or in sugar-containing products), whether such articles are included in a tariff-rate quota or not.
(b) Calculation of all allotments, allocations, estimates, and re-estimates in this subpart will use available USDA statistics and estimates of production, consumption, and stocks, taking into account, where appropriate, data supplied in reports submitted pursuant to the reporting requirements set forth in § 1435.200.
[67 FR 54928, Aug. 26, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 15365, Apr. 6, 2009]
§ 1435.302
Establishment of allotments.
(a) By the beginning of the crop year, CCC will establish the overall allotment quantity, beet sugar and cane sugar allotments, State cane sugar allotments, and allocations for processors marketing sugar domestically processed from sugarcane, sugar beets, or in-process beet sugar, whether the sugar beets or in-process beet sugar is domestically produced or imported at a level:
(1) That is sufficient to maintain raw and refined sugar prices above minimum prices to avoid forfeiture of loans to the CCC, but
(2) Not less that 85 percent of estimated quantity of sugar for domestic human consumption for the crop year.
(b) Determinations under this section to establish marketing allotments will be published in the
Federal Register
and accompanied by a statement of the reasons for the determination.
[74 FR 15365, Apr. 6, 2009]
§ 1435.303
Adjustment of the overall allotment quantity.
(a) The overall allotment quantity may be adjusted, as CCC determines appropriate, but never to a quantity less than 85 percent of the estimated quantity of sugar for domestic human consumption for the crop year:
(1) To avoid forfeiture of sugar loan collateral to CCC,
(2) Ensure adequate supplies of raw and refined sugar in the domestic market, and,
(3) To reflect changes in estimated sugar consumption, stocks, production, or imports based on re-estimates under § 1435.301.
(b) Determinations to adjust the overall allotment quantity will be published in the
Federal Register
and accompanied by a statement of the reasons for the determination.
(c) The beet sugar allotment, cane sugar allotment, State cane sugar allotments, proportionate shares, and allocations to each sugar beet processor and sugarcane processor will be increased or decreased, as appropriate, to reflect an overall allotment quantity adjustment.
(d) If the overall allotment quantity is reduced under paragraph (a) of this section and the quantity of sugar and sugar products any individual processor marketed by the time of the reduction exceeds the processor's reduced allocation, the quantity of excess sugar or sugar products marketed will be deducted from the processor's allocation under an allotment next established.
[67 FR 54928, Aug. 26, 2002. Redesignated and amended at 74 FR 15365, Apr. 6, 2009]
§ 1435.304
Beet and cane sugar allotments.
(a) The allotment for beet sugar will be 54.35 percent of the overall allotment quantity.
(b) The allotment for cane sugar will be 45.65 percent of the overall allotment quantity.
(c) A sugar beet processor allocated a share of the beet sugar allotment may use only beet sugar to fill such allocation. A sugarcane processor allocated a share of the cane sugar allotment may use only cane sugar to fill such allocation.
[67 FR 54928, Aug. 26, 2002. Redesignated at 74 FR 15365, Apr. 6, 2009]
§ 1435.305
State cane sugar allotments.
(a) Hawaii and Puerto Rico will be allotted a total of 325,000 short tons, raw value, of the cane sugar allotment.
(b) A new entrant cane State will receive an allotment to accommodate a new processor's allocation under 1435.308.
(c) Subject to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the remaining cane States will be allotted, in aggregate, the remaining cane sugar allotment.
(d) The individual cane State allotments, other than a new entrant cane State, will be based on:
(1) Past marketings of cane sugar,
(2) Past processing of cane sugar, and
(3) The ability to market the sugar covered under the allotment assigned to the State.
(e) Past marketings and past processings will each be weighted by 0.25 and the ability to market will be weighted by 0.50 in determining the States' respective cane sugar allotments. The weights may be adjusted, as CCC deems appropriate, for the crop year.
(f) Except when deficits are reassigned as provided in § 1435.309, a processor may fill an allocation of a cane sugar allotment only with sugar processed from sugarcane grown in the State for which the allotment was established.
[67 FR 54928, Aug. 26, 2002. Redesignated and amended at 74 FR 15365, Apr. 6, 2009]
§ 1435.306
Allocation of marketing allotments to processors.
(a) Each sugar beet processor's allocation, other than a new entrant's, of the beet allotment will be calculated as the beet processor's share times the beet sector allotment:
(1) A beet processor's share is calculated as the beet processor's adjusted weighted average sugar production divided by the sum of all beet processors' adjusted weighted average sugar production.
(2) A beet processor's weighted average sugar production equals 0.25 times its 1998-crop sugar production plus 0.35 times its 1999-crop sugar production plus 0.40 times its 2000-crop sugar production, with the 2000 sugar PIK payments added to its 2000-crop sugar production.
(3) A beet processor's weighted average sugar production shall be adjusted by the following, as CCC determines:
(i) Increased 1.25 percent of the sum of all beet processors' weighted average sugar production for opening a sugar
beet processing factory during the 1996 through 2000 crop years;
(ii) Decreased 1.25 percent of the sum of beet processors' weighted average sugar production for closing a sugar beet processing factory during the 1998 through 2000 crop years:
(iii) Increased 0.25 percent of the sum of all beet processors' weighted average sugar production for opening a molasses desugarization facility during the 1998 through 2000 crop years; and
(iv) Increased 1.25 percent of the sum of all beet processors' weighted average sugar production for suffering a substantial quality loss on stored beets, as CCC determines, during the 1998 through 2000 crop years.
(b) Each sugarcane processor's, other than a new entrant's, allocation from a State cane sugar allotment will be calculated as the cane processor's share times the State cane sector allotment.
(1) Each cane processor's share will be calculated as the processor's production base divided by the sum of the State's processor production bases.
(2) A processor's production base is the sum of 0.50 times its ability to market plus 0.25 times its past processings plus 0.25 times its past marketings. These weights may be adjusted as CCC deems appropriate for the crop year.
(c) An informal hearing will be held in August of each year, if requested by affected sugarcane processors and growers by July 15th, to afford all interested persons the opportunity to comment on the next crop year's marketing allotments and allocations. After consideration of comments obtained at the hearing, a final determination on cane State allotments and processor allocations will be announced.
(d) During any crop year in which marketing allotments are in effect and allocated to processors, the quantity of sugar and sugar products that a processor markets shall not exceed the quantity of the processor's allocation.
(e) Paragraph (d) of this section will not apply to:
(1) Any sugar marketings to facilitate the export of sugar or sugar-containing products as long as such exports are not eligible to receive credits under reexport programs administered by the Foreign Agricultural Service for refined sugar or sugar-containing products;
(2) Any sugar marketings for nonhuman consumption, except for the sale of sugar for the production of ethanol or other bioenergy under the Feedstock Flexibility program or the sale of sugar for the production of polyhydric alcohol under the Polyhydric Alcohol program administered by the Foreign Agricultural Service; and
(3) Any processor marketings of sugar to another processor made to enable the purchasing processor to fulfill its allocation if such sales;
(i) Are made before May 1, and
(ii) Reported to CCC within 51 days of the date of sale.
(f) Paragraph (d) of this section also shall not apply to marketings of purchased sugar marketed in the crop year of the purchase, but does apply to marketings of sugar purchased as part of a transaction pursuant to paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(g) Paragraph (d) of this section also will not apply to the marketing of beet sugar processed from purchased in-process beet sugar if the processor purchased the in-process beet sugar before October 1, 2008.
(h) A sugar beet processor allocated a share of the beet sugar allotment may use only beet sugar to fill such allocation. A sugarcane processor allocated a share of the cane sugar allotment may only use cane sugar to fill such allocation.
[67 FR 54926, Aug. 26, 2002, as amended at 69 FR 39813, July 1, 2004. Redesignated and amended at 74 FR 15365, Apr. 6, 2009]
§ 1435.307
Transfer of allocation.
(a) If a sugarcane processing facility is sold or transferred to another owner or is closed as part of a corporate consolidation CCC will transfer the allotment allocation to the purchaser or successor.
(b) In proportionate share States, allocations, based on the number of acres of sugarcane base being transferred and the pro rata amount reflecting the grower's contribution to allocation of the processor for the sugarcane base being transferred, will be transferred between facilities if the transfers are based on:
(1) Written consent of the crop-share owners, or their representatives,
(2) Written certification from the processor that will accept the additional sugarcane deliveries that its processing capacity will not be exceeded,
(3) CCC will only consider requests for transfer of allocation submitted during the month of May. The request must include the grower's sugar production history for crop years 1997 through 2003. The facility with the grower's history will be required to certify the history when requested by the grower, and
(4) Allocation transfers will be effective for the next fiscal year after the request is submitted to CCC, that is beginning October 1.
(c) If a sugar beet processing facility or a sugarcane processing facility located in a non-proportionate share State is closed, and the growers that delivered their crops to the closed facility elect to deliver their crops to another processor, the growers may petition the Executive Vice President, CCC, to transfer their share of the allocation from the processor that closed the facility to their new processor. If CCC approves transfer of the allocations, it will distribute the closed facility's allocation based on the contribution of the growers' production history to the closed facility's allocation. CCC may grant the allocation transfer upon:
(1) Written request by a grower to transfer allocation,
(2) Written approval of the processor that will accept the additional deliveries,
(3) Evidence satisfactory to CCC that the new processor has the capacity to accommodate the production of petitioning growers, and
(4) Determinations by the CCC will be made within 60 days after the filing of the petition.
(d) Subject to a transfer of allocation, if any, described in paragraph (c) of this section being completed, CCC will consider a processor to be permanently terminated and eliminate the processor's remaining allocation and distribute it to all other processors on a pro-rata basis when the processor:
(1) Has been dissolved,
(2) Has been liquidated in a bankruptcy proceeding,
(3) Has not processed sugarcane or sugar beets for 2 consecutive crop years,
(4) Has notified CCC that the processor has permanently terminated operations, or
(5) Has been determined by CCC to have permanently terminated operations.
(e) If a processor of beet sugar purchases all the assets of another processor, then CCC will immediately transfer allocation commensurate with the purchased facilities' production history, unless the allocation has already been transferred under paragraph (d) of this section.
(f) If a processor of beet sugar purchases some, but not all, of the assets of another processor, then CCC will assign a pro rata portion of the allocation to the buyer to reflect the historical contribution of the sold facilities, unless the buyer and seller have agreed upon a different allocation amount.
(1) The assignment of the allocation will apply to the crop year in which the sale occurs and for each subsequent year.
(2) The buyer of the facilities as specified in paragraph (e) of this section may fill the assigned allocation with production from other facilities it owns if the purchased facilities lack the production to fill the assigned allocation.
[74 FR 15366, Apr. 6, 2009]
§ 1435.308
New entrants.
(a) The Secretary may assign a new entrant sugarcane processor an allocation that provides a fair, efficient, and equitable distribution of allocations:
(1) Applicants must demonstrate their ability to process, produce, and market sugar for the applicable crop year,
(2) CCC will consider any adverse effects of the allocation upon existing processors and producers,
(3) CCC will conduct a hearing on a new entrant application if an interested processor or grower requests a hearing,
(4) A new entrant's allocation is limited to no more than 50,000 short tons, raw value, for the first crop year, and
(5) A new entrant will be provided, as determined by CCC:
(i) A share of its State's cane allotment if the processor is located in Hawaii, Florida, Louisiana, or Texas or
(ii) A share of the overall mainland cane allotment if the processor is located in any mainland State not listed in paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section.
(b) For proportionate share States, CCC will establish proportionate shares for the sugarcane required to fill the allocation.
(c) If a new entrant beet processor constructs a new facility or reopens a facility that currently has no allocation, but last produced beet sugar from sugar beets and sugar beet molasses prior to the 1998 crop year, CCC will:
(1) Assign an allocation to the new entrant to enable it to achieve a facility utilization rate comparable to other similarly-situated sugar beet processors and
(2) Reduce all other beet processor allocations by a like amount on a pro rata basis.
(d) If a new entrant acquires an existing facility with production history that processed sugar beets for the 1998 or subsequent crop year, CCC will:
(1) Assign the allocation to the buyer to reflect the historical contribution of the sold facilities, unless the buyer and seller have agreed upon a different allocation amount, or
(2) If the new entrant and the processor holding the allocation of the existing facility cannot agree on an allocation amount, the new entrant will be denied a beet sugar allocation.
[74 FR 15366, Apr. 6, 2009]
§ 1435.309
Reassignment of deficits.
(a) CCC will determine, from time to time, whether sugar beet or sugarcane processors will be unable to market their allocations.
(b) Sugar beet and sugar cane processors will report to CCC current inventories, estimated production, expected marketings, and any other pertinent factors CCC deems appropriate to determine a processor's ability to market their allocation.
(c) If CCC determines a sugarcane processor will be unable to market its full allocation for the crop year in which an allotment is in effect, the deficit will be reassigned as follows:
(1) First, to allocations of other sugarcane processors within that State based on each processor's initial allocation share of the State's allotment, but no processor may receive reassigned allocation such that its allocation exceeds its estimated total sugar supply.
(2) If the deficit cannot be eliminated after reassignment within the same State, be reassigned to the other cane States based on each State's initial share of the cane sugar allotment, but no State may receive reassigned State allotment such that its allocation exceeds its estimated total sugar supply, with the reassigned quantity to each State being allocated according to paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(3) If the deficit cannot be eliminated by paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section, be reassigned to CCC. CCC shall sell such quantity from inventory unless CCC determines such sales would have a significant effect on the sugar price.
(4) If any portion of the deficit remains after paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)(3) of this section have been implemented, be reassigned to imports of raw cane sugar.
(d) The initial estimate of the sugarcane deficit will be reassigned by June 1. CCC will conduct later reassignments if CCC determines, after June 1, that a sugarcane processor will be unable to market its full allocation.
(e) If CCC determines that a sugar beet processor is unable to market its full allocation for the crop year in which an allotment is in effect, the deficit will:
(1) First, be reassigned proportionately to allocations of other sugar beet processors, depending on the capacity of other processors to fill the portion of the deficit to be reassigned to them, accounting for the interests of associated producers.
(2) If the deficit cannot be eliminated by paragraph (e)(1) of this section, be reassigned to CCC. CCC shall sell such quantity from inventory unless CCC determines such sales would have a significant effect on the sugar price.
(3) If any portion of the deficit remains after paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2)
of this section have been implemented, be reassigned to imports of raw cane sugar.
(f) The crop year allocation of each sugar beet or sugarcane processor who receives a reassignment will be increased accordingly for that year.
[67 FR 54928, Aug. 26, 2002, as amended at 69 FR 55063, Sept. 13, 2004; 69 FR 58037, Sept. 29, 2004; 70 FR 28181, May 17, 2005; 74 FR 15366, Apr. 6, 2009]
§ 1435.310
Sharing processors' allocations with producers.
(a) Every sugar beet and sugarcane processor must provide CCC a certification that:
(1) The processor intends to share its allocation among its producers fairly and equitably, and in a manner adequately reflecting each producer's production history, and
(2) The processor has, in the previous allotment year, shared its allocation among producers fairly and equitably, reflecting each producer's production history. If a processor is unable to provide such certification, CCC may reduce or eliminate its marketing allocation.
(b) CCC will determine that a processor in a proportionate share state has met the conditions of paragraph (a) of this section if the processor establishes a grower payment plan that incorporates the following provisions:
(1) Pays growers for sugar from their delivered sugarcane in the following priority:
(i) Sugar production from proportionate share acreage; as established under § 1435.311, for producers determined by CCC, who;
(A) Delivered to the mill in at least one of the crop years 1999, 2000, or 2001, or
(B) Obtained an allocation transfer from a predecessor mill,
(ii) Sugar production from base acreage, as established under § 1435.312, but exclusive of the acreage described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, for producers who meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, then
(iii) All other sugar production.
(2) In determining the payment priority, a processor may aggregate the acreage of an operator (producer making the crop production decisions) across all the operator's farms delivering cane to the processor.
(c) CCC will determine that a processor not in a proportionate share state, which is cooperatively owned by producers, has met the conditions of paragraph (a) of this section if the processor shares its allocation with its producers according to its cooperative membership agreement.
(d) CCC will disclose farm base and reported acres data in a proportionate share state to processors upon their request for growers delivering to their mill. In the case of multiple producers on a farm or growers delivering to more than one mill, subject mills will be responsible for coordinating proportionate share data.
(e) Any producer or processor may request arbitration of a dispute regarding the sharing of the processor's allocation among the producers. Arbitration will be available on behalf of CCC at the State FSA office for the State in which the processor is located. Subsequent review of the arbitration decision is available at the discretion of the Executive Vice President, CCC. Any arbitration is subject to appeal to the Office of the Administrative Law Judge, USDA.
[67 FR 54926, Aug. 26, 2002, as amended at 69 FR 39813, July 1, 2004; 74 FR 15366, Apr. 6, 2009]
§ 1435.311
Proportionate shares for sugarcane producers.
(a) Proportionate shares and the provisions of this section and §§ 1435.312 through 1435.316 apply only to Louisiana sugarcane farms.
(b) CCC will determine whether Louisiana sugar production, in the absence of proportionate shares, will exceed the quantity needed to enable processors to fill the State cane sugar allotment and provide a normal carryover inventory. If the determination is made that the quantity of sugar produced in Louisiana, plus a normal carryover inventory, will exceed the State's allotment, CCC will establish for each sugarcane producing farm a proportionate share that limits the sugarcane acreage that may be harvested on the farm for sugar or seed.
(c) For purposes of determining proportionate shares CCC will:
(1) Establish the State's per-acre yield goal at a level not less than the average per-acre yield in the State for the 2 highest years from among the 1999 through 2001 crop years;
(2) Adjust the per-acre yield goal by the State average recovery rate;
(3) Convert the State cane sugar allotment into a State acreage allotment by dividing the State allotment by the adjusted per-acre yield goal;
(4) Establish a uniform reduction percentage for the crop by dividing the State acreage allotment by the sum of all adjusted acreage bases in the State as determined under § 1435.312; and
(5) Apply the uniform reduction percentage to the acreage base established for each sugarcane producing farm in the State to determine the farm's proportionate share of sugarcane acreage that may be harvested for sugar or seed.
§ 1435.312
Establishment of acreage bases under proportionate shares.
(a) CCC will establish a sugarcane crop acreage base for each farm subject to proportionate shares as the simple average of the acreage planted and considered planted for harvest for sugar or seed (meaning only those varieties dedicated to the production of sugarcane to produce sugar for human consumption) on the farm in the 2 highest of the 1999 through 2001 crop years. Acreage considered planted shall be determined under § 1435.315.
(b) In establishing crop acreage bases, CCC will:
(1) Not consider acreage prevented from planting, and
(2) Consider acreage planted to sugarcane that fails.
(c) In establishing crop acreage bases, CCC will allow producers who have not previously reported their sugarcane acreage to do so by a date CCC determines and announces. Late-filed acreage reports will be accepted as the Deputy Administrator determines appropriate.
(d) The farm's crop acreage base shall be used to determine the farm's proportionate share.
(e) The regulations at part 718 of this title shall apply to this subpart, except reconstitution of farms with a sugar crop acreage base shall not be allowed across State lines.
[67 FR 54928, Aug. 26, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 15367, Apr. 6, 2009]
§ 1435.313
Permanent transfer of acreage base histories under proportionate shares.
(a) A sugarcane producer on a farm may transfer all or a portion of the producer's acreage base history of land owned, operated, or controlled to any other farm in the State that the producer owns, operates, or controls under the Deputy Administrator-issued instructions. The transfer will reduce permanently the transferring farm's sugarcane acreage base history and increase the receiving farm's crop acreage base.
(1) All farm owners must agree in writing to the transfer.
(2) Producers may transfer sugarcane acreage base histories under this section by the date the State FSA committee establishes annually.
(b) Sugarcane acreage base that has been converted to nonagricultural use on or before May 13, 2002, may be transferred to other land suitable for the production of sugarcane under the following terms:
(1) CCC must notify 1 or more affected landowners within 90 days of becoming aware of the conversion, of their rights to transfer the base to 1 or more farms owned by the landowner;
(2) The landowner has 90 days from the date the landowner was notified to transfer the base;
(3) If the landowner does not exercise this transfer right, the grower of record will have 90 days after being notified by CCC to transfer the base to 1 or more farms owned by the grower;
(4) If the transfers as specified under paragraphs (b)(2) or (3) of this section are not accomplished during the specified periods, FSA county committee will place the base into a pool for possible reassignment to other farms;
(5) After providing notice to farm owners, operators and growers of record in the county, the committee will accept requests from farm owners, operators, and growers in the county;
(6) The county committee will assign the base to other sugarcane farms in
the county that are eligible and capable of accepting the acreage base, based on a random drawing among requests received under paragraph (b)(5) of this section;
(7) Any unassigned base will be made available to the State FSA committee and be allocated to remaining FSA county committees in the State representing counties with farms eligible for assignment of the base, based on a random drawing; and
(8) After the acreage base has been reassigned, the acreage base will remain on the farm and subject to the transfer provisions of paragraph (a) of this section.
[67 FR 54928, Aug. 26, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 15367, Apr. 6, 2009]
§ 1435.314
Temporary transfer of proportionate share due to disasters.
(a) If, for reasons beyond the control of a producer on a farm, such producer is unable to harvest sugarcane acreage relative to all or a portion of the proportionate share established for the farm, the Secretary may preserve, on producer application and written consent of all owners of the farm, for a period of not more than 5 consecutive years, the acreage base history of the farm to the extent of the proportionate share involved.
(b) Such proportionate share may be transferred, with the written consent of all owners of the farm, for 1 crop year to other farm owners or operators subject to the following conditions:
(1) The acreage base history of the transferring farm will be preserved for a period from 1 to 5 years; and
(2) Acreage base history will not be increased on the receiving farm.
(c) Producers who transfer a proportionate share under this section will be required to:
(1) Initiate the transfer in the county FSA office where the proportionate shares are established; and
(2) Obtain approval from the transferring county FSA committee.
(d) All transfers made under this section must be completed by the date the State FSA committee establishes.
§ 1435.315
Adjustments to proportionate shares.
Whenever CCC determines that, because of a natural disaster or other condition beyond the control of producers adversely affecting a sugarcane crop, the amount of sugarcane produced by producers subject to proportionate shares will not be sufficient to enable state processors to produce sufficient sugar to meet the State's cane sugar allotment and provide a normal carryover of sugar, CCC may uniformly allow producers to harvest sugarcane in excess of their proportionate shares, or suspend proportionate shares entirely.
§ 1435.316
Acreage reports for purposes of proportionate shares.
(a) A report of planted and failed acreage shall be required on farms that produce sugarcane for sugar or seed. Such report shall also specify the total acreage intended for harvest for sugar and seed.
(b) The reports required under paragraph (a) of this section shall be on forms prescribed by CCC and shall be filed annually with the county FSA committee by the applicable final reporting date CCC establishes. The farm operator or farm owner shall file such reports.
(c) Acreage reports will be used to determine compliance with proportionate shares and acreage bases for future proportionate shares.
(d) An acreage report may be accepted after the established date for reporting if physical evidence is still available for inspection that may be used to make a determination relative to:
(1) Existence of the crop;
(2) Use made of the crop;
(3) Lack of crop; or
(4) Disaster condition affecting the crop.
(e) The farm operator shall pay the cost of a farm visit by an authorized FSA employee unless the county FSA committee has determined that failure to report in a timely manner was beyond the producer's control.
(f) The farm operator may revise an acreage report. Revised reports shall be filed in accordance with CCC instructions and shall be accepted at any time if:
(1) Evidence exists for inspection and determination of:
(i) Existence of the crop;
(ii) Use made of the crop;
(iii) Lack of crop; or
(iv) Disaster condition affecting the crops.
(2) The farm has not already been inspected and the acreage already determined or harvesting of sugarcane already begun.
(g) Provisions of part 718 of this chapter will apply for field inspections, tolerance, and variance. Assessments for false acreage reporting will be applied under § 1435.318.
§ 1435.317
Revisions of allocations and proportionate shares.
The Executive Vice President, CCC, may modify any processor's allocation or any producer's proportionate share on the same basis as the initial allocation or proportionate share was required to be established.
§ 1435.318
Penalties and assessments.
(a) Any sugar beet or sugarcane processor who knowingly markets sugar or sugar products in excess of the processor's allocation will be liable to CCC for a civil penalty in an amount equal to 3 times the U.S. market value, at the time the violation was committed, of that quantity of sugar involved in the violation.
(b) CCC may assess liquidated damages, as specified in a surplus allocation survey and agreement, with respect to a surplus allocation still existing after the end of a crop year if the processor had a surplus allocation because the processor provided incomplete or erroneous information to CCC.
(c) Under § 359f(c)(5) of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938, as amended, any producer of sugarcane whose farm has a proportionate share, and who knowingly harvests or allows to be harvested an acreage of sugarcane for sugar or seed in excess of the farm's proportionate share shall pay to CCC a civil penalty in an amount equal to 1.5 times the U.S. market value of the quantity of sugar that is marketed by the processor of such sugarcane in excess of the allocation of such processor, for the year in which the violation was committed. However, civil penalties will not be assessed when the producer harvests acreage for sugar or seed in excess of the farm's proportionate share, if the excess sugarcane harvested is:
(1) Processed by a sugarcane processor that does not exceed its marketing allocation; or
(2) Diverted to a use other than sugar or seed if:
(i) The sugarcane producer requests and pays for a CCC field inspection, and
(ii) CCC verifies the disposition of the excess harvest is not for sugar or seed.
(d) Any penalty assessed under paragraph (b) of this section shall be prorated among the producers of all sugarcane acquired by the processor from excess acres.
(e) Any person filing a false acreage report that exceeds tolerance will be subject to an assessment not to exceed the amount specified at § 3.91(b)(10)(iii) of this title. Whenever the failure of a producer to comply fully with the terms and conditions applicable to proportionate shares would result in an assessment, the Deputy Administrator may authorize the waiver or reduction of the assessment in such amounts as determined to be equitable about the seriousness of the failure, the producer's good-faith effort to comply fully with such terms and conditions, and the producer's substantial performance.
(f) Any person who knowingly violates any provision of this subpart other than paragraph (d) of this section is subject to the assessment of a civil penalty by CCC of not more than the amount specified at § 3.91(b)(10)(iv) of this title for each violation.
[67 FR 54928, Aug. 26, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 15367, Apr. 6, 2009; 75 FR 17561, Apr. 7, 2010]
§ 1435.319
Appeals and arbitration.
(a) A person adversely affected by any determination made under this subpart may request reconsideration of such determination by filing a written request with the Executive Vice President, CCC, detailing the basis of the request within 10 days of such determination. Such a request must be submitted at: Executive Vice President, CCC, Stop 0501, 1400 Independence Ave., SW, Washington, DC 20250-0501.
(b) For issues arising under section 359d establishing allocations for marketing allotments, and sections 359f(b) and (c), and section 359i of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938, as amended, after completion of the process provided in paragraph (a) of this section, a person adversely affected by a reconsidered determination may appeal such determination by filing a written notice of appeal within 20 days of the issuance of the reconsidered determination with the Hearing Clerk, USDA, Room 1081, South Building, 1400 Independence Ave., SW., Washington, DC 20250-9200. Any hearing conducted under this paragraph shall be in accordance with instructions issued by USDA's Judicial Officer.
(c) For issues arising under §§ 359a-359c, 359e, and 359g of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938, as amended, after completion of the process provided in paragraph (a) of this section, a person adversely affected by the reconsidered determination may appeal such determination by filing a written notice of appeal with the Director, National Appeals Division, USDA, as provided in part 11 of this title. For issues arising under § 359f(a) of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938, as amended, such disputes shall be resolved through arbitration under the direction of the Executive Vice President, CCC. A request for arbitration must be filed in writing at the address specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
[67 FR 54926, Aug. 26, 2002, as amended at 69 FR 39814, July 1, 2004]

# Subpart E—Disposition of CCC Inventory

# Source:
78 FR 45446, July 29, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1435.400
General statement.
This subpart will be applicable in the event that raw, refined, or in-process sugar is owned and held in CCC inventory (accumulated under the program authorized by section 156 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act, as amended) as specified in subpart B of this part.
§ 1435.401
CCC sugar inventory disposition.
(a) CCC will dispose of inventory in the following manner, if CCC has not determined there is an emergency shortage of sugar for human consumption in the domestic market:
(1) By sale to bioenergy producers under the Feedstock Flexibility Program as specified in subpart G of this part,
(2) By transfer to sugarcane and sugar beet processors under the Processor Sugar Payment-In-Kind Program as specified in subpart F of this part,
(3) By the buyback of certificates of quota eligibility (CQEs), or
(4) By the use of any other authority for the disposition of CCC-owned sugar for nonfood use or otherwise in a manner that does not increase the net quantity of sugar available for human consumption in the United States.
(b) CCC may use any of its authority for the disposition of CCC-owned sugar, if CCC has determined there is an emergency shortage of sugar for human consumption in the domestic market caused by war, flood, hurricane, or other natural disaster, or similar event, as determined by CCC.

# Subpart F—Processor Sugar Payment-In-Kind (PIK) Program

# Source:
67 FR 54928, Aug. 26, 2002, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 74 FR 15367, Apr. 6, 2009.
§ 1435.500
General statement.
This subpart shall be applicable to sugar beet and sugarcane processors throughout the United States who, acting in conjunction with the producers of the sugarcane or sugar beets processed by the processors, reduce sugar production in return for a payment of sugar from CCC when CCC determines that such action will reduce forfeitures of sugar pledged as collateral for a CCC loan.
[67 FR 54928, Aug. 26, 2002. Redesignated at 74 FR 15367, Apr. 6, 2009]
§ 1435.501
Bid submission procedures.
(a) After announcement by CCC that a program authorized by this subpart is
in effect, processors who desire to participate in the program must submit a bid to CCC, on a form prescribed by CCC, that specifies:
(1) For a program involving acreage diversion, the amount of acreage to be reduced by producers who have contracts for delivery of sugar beets or sugar cane to the processor and contains the information CCC determines necessary to conduct the program and includes but is not limited to:
(i) The number of acres that the processor, acting in conjunction with the producers, will divert;
(ii) The previous consecutive 3-year simple average sugar beet or sugarcane yield on that acreage while under contract (years with no production contracted with a producer will not be considered (for first-time producers, however, the previous consecutive 3-year simple average sugar beet or sugarcane yield for all the producers under contract who delivered to the applicable factory will be used);
(iii) The previous 3-year simple average sugar content of the producer's beets or sugarcane (for first-time producers, the previous 3-year simple average sugar content for all beets or cane delivered to that factory will be used);
(iv) The processor's previous 3-year simple average recovery rate (for processors that have not been fully operational during the last 3 years, the simple average for those years that they were fully operational);
(v) The value of CCC sugar to be received as payment; and
(vi) Other information CCC deems necessary for program administration; or
(2) The sugar production capacity to be removed from production by the processor.
(b) The following acreage is ineligible for enrollment in the PIK program:
(1) If planted, acreage not currently under contract for delivery of sugar beets to a sugar beet processor or sugarcane to a sugarcane processor for sugar production.
(2) If planted, acreage that is not harvestable,
(3) Acreage devoted to roads or other non-producing areas, or
(4) If planted, acreage on which a crop insurance indemnity or replant payment was received for the current crop or for which a claim has been, or will be, filed to receive a crop insurance indemnity or replant payment for the current crop, except for replant payments for acreage actually replanted before the end of the normal planting period.
(c) If planted, the diverted acres cannot be grazed until after the sugar beets or sugarcane are destroyed by disking, plowing, or other means of mechanical destruction. In addition, the sugar beets or sugarcane on the diverted acres may not be used for any commercial purpose.
(d) The acreage offered must meet the following requirements:
(1) If less than or equal to 15 acres, then the acreage bid must consist of one of the following:
(i) One contiguous area of land,
(ii) One or more entire permanent fields, or
(iii) One or more entire permanent fields and one contiguous area of land to complete the balance;
(2) If more than 15 acres, then the acreage bid must consist of one of the following:
(i) One or more areas of land of at least 15 contiguous acres each with one remaining area of land of less than 15 contiguous acres to complete the balance,
(ii) One or more entire permanent fields, or
(iii) One or more entire permanent fields and one area of contiguous land to complete the balance.
(3) Contiguous areas of land must have a minimum width of 3 chains (198 feet).
(e) For a program involving desugaring capacity, or other measures of sugar production, not involving acreage diversion, the bid must contain the information CCC determine necessary to conduct the program.
[67 FR 54928, Aug. 26, 2002. Redesignated at 74 FR 15367, Apr. 6, 2009]
§ 1435.502
Bid selection procedures.
(a) For bids in which the processor offers to remove acreage of sugar beets or sugarcane from production, CCC will rank bids on the basis of the bid amount as a percentage of the expected
sugar produced from the retired acreage. Bids with the lowest of such percentages will be selected first. In the case of identical bids, selection may be based on random selection or pro rata shares, as CCC deems appropriate.
(b) CCC will reject bids for which the bid amounts exceed the expected sugar produced from the retired acreage.
(c) For bids in which the processor offers to remove sugar production capacity from production, CCC will rank the bids on the basis of the capacity to be removed from production.
(d) All acceptable bids specified in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section will be further reviewed by CCC and ranked in order of the greatest reduction in sugar program that can be achieved at the lowest cost to CCC.
[67 FR 54928, Aug. 26, 2002. Redesignated at 74 FR 15367, Apr. 6, 2009]
§ 1435.503
In-kind payments.
(a) CCC will, through such methods as CCC deems appropriate, make payments in the form of sugar held in CCC inventory.
(b) To the maximum extent practicable, CCC will use its inventory in making an in-kind payment based on the following priority:
(1) CCC-owned sugar held in storage by the processor;
(2) CCC-owned sugar held in storage by any other processor in the same region as the producer;
(3) CCC-owned sugar held in storage by any other processor that is not in the same region as the producer; and
(4) CCC-owned sugar held in storage anywhere in the United States, if CCC determines that such sugar is eligible to be used for in-kind payments.
(c) The value of CCC-owned inventory is dependent upon the storage location of the sugar and the type of sugar (raw or refined). CCC will announce the value of its inventory before bid solicitation. Accordingly, the quantity of sugar CCC will provide in terms of an in-kind payment to a processor will be determined by dividing:
(1) The total of the processor's bid amount that CCC accepts, by
(2) The value of CCC's inventory at the storage location at which title will transfer from CCC to the processor.
[67 FR 54928, Aug. 26, 2002. Redesignated at 74 FR 15367, Apr. 6, 2009]
§ 1435.504
Timing of distribution of CCC-owned sugar.
Distribution of sugar from CCC inventory will occur in such manner as CCC determines appropriate.
[67 FR 54928, Aug. 26, 2002. Redesignated at 74 FR 15367, Apr. 6, 2009]
§ 1435.505
Miscellaneous provisions.
(a) CCC may permit processors to bid, in lieu of acreage, desugarizing capacity or other measures of sugar production as CCC determines.
(b) The contract shall provide for the payment of liquidated damages if a processor fails to comply with the obligations specified in the CCC production diversion contract.
(c) CCC will transfer title of the sugar to the processor by notifying the processor or assignee that the sugar is available. CCC will stop storage payments on this sugar on the date of transfer.
[67 FR 54928, Aug. 26, 2002. Redesignated at 74 FR 15367, Apr. 6, 2009]

# Subpart G—Feedstock Flexibility Program

# Source:
78 FR 45446, July 29, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1435.600
General statement.
(a) The provisions of this subpart will be applied when CCC determines that buying sugar is necessary to avoid forfeitures of sugar pledged as collateral for CCC sugar loans.
(b) This subpart will be applicable to:
(1) Any sugar seller who contractts with CCC to sell sugar, an
(2) Any bioenergy producer who contracts with CCC to purchase sugar for the production of bioenergy.
§ 1435.601
Sugar surplus determination and public announcement.
(a) CCC will estimate by September 1 the quantity of sugar that will be made available for purchase and sale under FFP for the following crop year.
(b) Not later than January 1, April 1, and July 1 of the fiscal year, CCC will re-estimate the quantity of sugar that will be made available for purchase and sale under the FFP for the crop year.
(c) CCC will announce by press release the estimates in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, which will reflect CCC's forecast of sugar likely to be forfeited to CCC and any uncertainty surrounding that forecast.
§ 1435.602
Eligible sugar to be purchased by CCC.
(a) CCC will only purchase raw sugar, refined sugar, or in-process sugar for FFP that is eligible to be used as collateral under the CCC Sugar Loan Program, as specified in § 1435.102.
(b) Raw sugar, refined sugar, or in-process sugar purchased directly from any domestic sugar beet or sugarcane processor that made the raw sugar, refined sugar, or in-process sugar will be credited against the processor's sugar marketing allocation. (The definition for “marketing” in § 1435.2 applies to this subpart.)
(c) CCC will only purchase sugar located in the United States.
(d) CCC will evaluate an offer to sell sugar to CCC based upon CCC's estimate of the reduction in refined sugar supply available for human consumption due to the purchase. For example, if processing thick juice (an in-process sugar) would yield 70 percent sugar for human consumption, then CCC will only consider 70 percent of the volume of the thick juice in evaluating the per unit sales price.
(e) CCC will only purchase the sugar if such purchase would reduce the likelihood of forfeitures of CCC sugar loans, as determined by CCC.
§ 1435.603
Eligible sugar seller.
(a) To be considered an eligible sugar seller, the sugar seller must be located in the United States.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1435.604
Eligible sugar buyer.
(a) To be considered an eligible sugar buyer, the bioenergy producer must produce bioenergy products, including fuel grade ethanol or other biofuels.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1435.605
Competitive procedures.
(a) CCC will generally issue tenders for bids, before entering into contracts with any eligible sugar seller or buyer, with the intent of selecting the bid(s) that represents the least cost to CCC of removing sugar from the market.
(b) CCC may, at times, negotiate contracts directly with sellers or buyers, if CCC determines that such negotiation will result in either reduced likelihood of forfeited sugar under the CCC sugar loan program or reduced costs of removing sugar from the market, which will reduce the likelihood of forfeitures of sugar to CCC.
§ 1435.606
Miscellaneous.
(a) As a sugar buyer, a bioenergy producer must take possession of the sugar no more than 30 days from the date of CCC's purchase.
(b) CCC, to the maximum extent practicable, will not pay storage fees for the sugar purchased under this program. A bioenergy producer must assume any storage costs accrued from date of contract to date of taking possession of the sugar.
(c) Each bioenergy producer that purchases sugar through FFP must provide proof as specified by CCC that the sugar has been used in the bioenergy factory for the production of bioenergy and permit access for USDA to verify compliance.
§ 1435.607
Appeals.
(a) The administrative appeal regulations of parts 11 and 780 of this title apply to this part.
(b) [Reserved]
Pt. 1436

# PART 1436—FARM STORAGE FACILITY LOAN PROGRAM REGULATIONS
Sec.
1436.1
Applicability.
1436.2
Administration.
1436.3
Definitions.
1436.4
Application for loans.
1436.5
Eligible borrowers.
1436.6
Eligible storage or handling equipment.
1436.7
Loan term.
1436.8
Security for loan.
1436.9
Loan amount and loan application approvals.
1436.10
Down payment.
1436.11
Disbursements and assignments.
1436.12
Interest and fees.
1436.13
Loan installments, delinquency, and acceleration of maturity date.
1436.14
Taxes.
1436.15
Maintenance, liability, insurance, and inspections.
1436.16
Foreclosure, liquidation, assumptions, sales or conveyance, or bankruptcy.
1436.18
Appeals.
1436.19
Equal Opportunity and Non-discrimination requirements.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7971 and 8789; and 15 U.S.C. 714 through 714p.

# Source:
66 FR 4612, Jan. 18, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1436.1
Applicability.
(a) The regulations of this part provide the terms and conditions under which CCC may provide low-cost financing for producers to build or upgrade on-farm storage and handling facilities. Because liens and security interests related to this activity may be governed by State law, CCC may adapt certain procedures relating to those issues that may vary between States.
(b) Unless specified otherwise in this part, for FSFL microloans, all provisions of this part apply.
[66 FR 4612, Jan. 18, 2001, as amended at 74 FR 41587, Aug. 18, 2009; 81 FR 25592, Apr. 29, 2016]
§ 1436.2
Administration.
(a) The Farm Storage Facility Loan Program will be administered under the general supervision of the Executive Vice President, CCC or designee and will be carried out in the field by FSA State committees, FSA county committees and FSA employees.
(b) FSA State committees, FSA county committees and FSA employees, do not have the authority to modify or waive any of the provisions of the regulations of this part.
(c) The FSA State committee will take any action required by these regulations that has not been taken by the county committee. The FSA State committee will also:
(1) Correct, or require the FSA county committee to correct, any action taken by such FSA county committee that is not in accordance with the regulations of this part; and
(2) Require the FSA county committee to withhold taking any action that is not in accordance with the regulations of this part.
(d) No provision or delegation herein to a State or FSA county committee will preclude the Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee, or the Administrator, FSA, or a designee, from determining any question arising under the program or from reversing or modifying any determination made by the State or FSA county committee.
(e) The Deputy Administrator, Farm Programs, FSA, may authorize State and FSA county committees to waive or modify deadlines and other program requirements in cases where lateness or failure to meet such other requirements does not adversely affect the operation of the Farm Storage Facility Loan Program.
(f) A representative of CCC may execute Farm Storage Facility Loan Program applications and related documents only under the terms and conditions determined and announced by CCC. Any such document that is not executed in accordance with such terms and conditions, including any purported execution prior to the date authorized by CCC, will be void.
(g) The purpose of the Farm Storage Facility Loan Program is to provide CCC funded loans for producers of grains, oilseeds, pulse crops, sugar, hay, renewable biomass, fruits and vegetables (including nuts), aquaculture, butter, cheese, eggs, floriculture, honey, hops, maple sap, meat, milk, poultry, rye, yogurt, and other grains and storable commodities, as determined by the Secretary, to construct or upgrade storage and handling facilities for the eligible facility loan commodities they produce.
[66 FR 4612, Jan. 18, 2001, as amended at 74 FR 41587, Aug. 18, 2009; 81 FR 25592, Apr. 29, 2016]
§ 1436.3
Definitions.
The following definitions will be applicable to the program authorized by this part and will be used in all aspects of administering this program:
Aggregate outstanding balance
means the sum of the outstanding balances of all loans disbursed under this part to
each borrower signing the note and security agreement.
Aquaculture,
for FSFL purposes, means any species of aquatic organism grown as food for human consumption, or fish raised as feed for fish that are consumed by humans.
ARS
means the Agricultural Research Service of the USDA.
Assumption
means the act or agreement by which one borrower takes over or assumes the debt of another borrower.
CCC
means the Commodity Credit Corporation.
Cold storage facility
means a facility or rooms within a facility that are specifically designed and constructed for the cold temperature storage of perishable commodities. The temperature and humidity in these facilities must be able to be regulated to specified conditions required for the commodity requiring storage.
Collateral
means the facility and any real estate used to secure the loan.
Commercial facility
means any facility, used in connection with or by any commercial operation including, but not limited to, grain elevators, warehouses, dryers, processing plants, or cold storage facilities used for the storage and handling of any agricultural product, whether paid or unpaid. Any structure suitable for the storage of an agricultural product that is in working proximity to any commercial storage operation will be considered to be part of a commercial storage operation.
Commercial storage
means the storing of any agricultural product, whether paid or unpaid, for persons other than the owner of the structure, except for family members and tenants or landlords with a share in the eligible facility loan commodity requiring storage.
Crop of economic significance
means any insurable facility loan commodity that contributes 10 percent or more of the total expected value of all crops grown by the loan applicant except if the expected liability under the catastrophic level of crop insurance for a crop is equal to or less than the administrative fee for the crop, that crop shall not be economically significant.
Deputy Administrator
means the Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, Farm Service Agency, including any designee.
Facility
means any on-farm storage and handling facility or structure, storage and handling equipment, or storage and handling truck, for which a producer may receive FSFL financing to acquire or upgrade. Such facilities can be new or used, fixed or portable.
Facility loan commodity
means corn, grain sorghum, oats, wheat, barley, rice, raw or refined sugar, soybeans, sunflower seed, canola, rapeseed, safflower, flaxseed, mustard seed, crambe, sesame seed, other grains and oilseeds as determined and announced by CCC, dry peas, lentils, or chickpeas harvested as whole grain, peanuts, hay, renewable biomass, fruits and vegetables (including nuts), aquaculture, floriculture, hops, milk, rye, maple sap, honey, meat, poultry, eggs, cheese, butter, yogurt, and other storable commodities as determined by the Secretary. Corn, grain sorghum, wheat, and barley are included whether harvested as whole grain or other than whole grain.
Financing statement
means the appropriate document that gives legal notice of a security interest in personal property when properly filed or recorded.
FSA
means the Farm Service Agency of the USDA.
FSFL
means Farm Storage Facility Loan.
FSFL microloan
means a loan for which the producer's aggregate outstanding FSFL balance will be equal to or less than $50,000 at the time of loan application and disbursement.
Hay
means a grass or legume that has been cut and stored. Commonly used grass mixtures include rye grass, timothy, brome, fescue, coastal Bermuda, orchard grass, and other native species, depending on the region. Forage legumes include alfalfa and clovers.
NAP
means the Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program.
NEPA
means the National Environmental Policy Act.
NIFA
means the National Institute of Food and Agriculture of the USDA.
Non-movable or non-salable collateral
means either collateral the county committee determines cannot be sold and moved to a new location because of
the type of construction involved or because the collateral has deteriorated to the point that it has no sale recovery value.
Off-farm paid labor
means any laborer that does not work for the applicant on a regular basis and who is not hired as a seasonal worker.
OSHA
means the Occupational Safety and Health Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor.
Portable equipment and storage structures
means non-affixed equipment and storage containers that are manufactured to be mounted, hitched, or transported with a farm vehicle, truck, or trailer and its primary function is to store or handle eligible facility loan commodities at different farm, market, or storage locations. Examples of portable equipment include, but are not limited to, bulk tanks, conveyors, augers, scales, vacuums, pilers, scales, batch dryers, and storage containers.
Renewable biomass
means any organic matter that is available on a renewable or recurring basis including renewable plant material such as feed grains or other agricultural commodities (including, but not limited to, soybeans and switchgrass), other plants and trees (excluding old-growth timber), algae, crop residue (including, but not limited to, corn stover, various straws and hulls, and orchard prunings), other vegetative waste material (including, but not limited to, wood waste, wood residues, and food and yard waste) used for the production of energy in the form of heat, electricity, and liquid, solid, or gaseous fuels. Manure from any source is not included.
Resale collateral value
means collateral that can be sold and moved to a new location for which compensation equal to the outstanding loan value can be expected.
Satisfactory credit history
means a history of repaying debts as they came due unless the failure to repay or tardiness in payment was due to circumstance beyond the applicant's control as determined by CCC upon proof submitted by the applicant.
Severance agreement
means an agreement under which a party may consent to the security interest of another in property thereby allowing the severance of a fixture from the real estate.
Storage and handling truck
means a CCC-approved commodity storage truck or van designed to carry eligible commodities and may be equipped with a variety of mechanical refrigeration systems and will be used to store, handle, and move eligible commodities from the producer's farm location to market or storage.
Subordination agreement
means any agreement under which a party may subordinate a security interest in property to the interest of another party.
USDA
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
[66 FR 4612, Jan. 18, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 54938, Aug. 26, 2002; 74 FR 41587, Aug. 18, 2009; 81 FR 25592, Apr. 29, 2016]

# Editorial Note:
At 81 FR 25592, Apr. 29, 2016, § 1436.3 was amended; however, the amendment could not be incorporated due to inaccurate amendatory instruction.
§ 1436.4
Application for loans.
(a) An application for an FSFL must be submitted to the administrative FSA county office that maintains the records of the farm or farms to which the applicant applies. If some or all of the land does not have farm records established, the application may be submitted to the FSA county office that services the county where the FSFL financed equipment or facility will be primarily located.
(b) Upon request, the applicant must furnish information and documents as the State or county committee deems reasonably necessary to support the application. This may include financial statements, receipts, bills, invoices, purchase orders, specifications, drawings, plats, or written authorization of access.
(c) For sugar storage facility loans, a loan application must be submitted to the county FSA office that maintains the applicant's records. If no such records exist, loan applications must be submitted to the county office serving the headquarters location of the sugar processor.
(d) Submitting an application does not ensure loan approval nor create any liability on behalf of CCC. Borrowers who authorize delivery, site preparation, or construction actions without an approved loan, do so at their own risk.
(e) The application must include documentation of the need for storage, or for FSFL microloans self-certification, as specified in § 1436.9.
[74 FR 41587, Aug. 18, 2009, as amended at 81 FR 25593, Apr. 29, 2016]
§ 1436.5
Eligible borrowers.
(a)
Borrower
means a person who, as landowner, landlord, operator, producer, tenant, leaseholder, sharecropper, or processor of domestically produced sugarcane or sugar beets:
(1) Has a satisfactory credit history according to the definition in § 1436.3 and as recommended to the approving committee by a FSA employee with FSA loan approval authority;
(2) Demonstrates an ability to repay the debt arising under this program using a financial statement acceptable to CCC prepared within 90 days of the date of application, as recommended to the approving committee by a FSA employee with FSA loan approval authority;
(3) Has no disqualifying delinquent Federal debt under the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996;
(4) Is a producer of a facility loan commodity as determined by CCC;
(5) Demonstrates a need for increased storage capacity as determined by CCC if the applicant is applying for a loan for a storage structure. The Deputy Administrator, Farm Programs, may issue a waiver, if requested, on a case by case basis if a crop share landlord or tenant requests to construct a structure to store commodities produced on the farm but only one of the two wishes to accept loan liability;
(6) Annually provides proof of crop insurance offered under the Federal Crop Insurance Program for insurable crops of economic significance on all farms operated by the borrower in the county where the storage facility is located. Crop insurance or Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program (NAP) coverage, if available, is required on all the commodities stored in the FSFL-funded facility, whether economically significant or not; crop insurance under the Federal Crop Insurance Program may not be available for certain renewable biomass commodities;
(7) Is in compliance with the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) provisions for highly erodible land and wetlands conservation provisions according to 7 CFR part 12;
(8) Demonstrates compliance with any applicable local zoning, land use, and building codes for the applicable farm storage facility structures;
(9) Annually provides proof of flood insurance if CCC determines such insurance is necessary to protect the interests of CCC, and annually provides proof that the structures for which the loan is made has all peril structural insurance;
(10) Demonstrates compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act regulations at 40 CFR parts 1500-1508; and
(11) Has not been convicted under Federal or State law of a disqualifying controlled substance violation or a crop insurance violation under 7 CFR part 718.
(b) For sugar facility loans:
(1) Paragraphs (a)(4), (6), and (7) of this section do not apply.
(2) Sugar processors must be approved by CCC to store sugar owned by CCC or pledged as security to CCC for non-recourse loans.
[66 FR 4612, Jan. 18, 2001; 66 FR 17073, Mar. 29, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 54938, Aug. 26, 2002; 74 FR 41588, Aug. 18, 2008]
§ 1436.6
Eligible storage or handling equipment.
(a) All eligible storage and handling facilities must be one of the following types:
(1) Conventional-type cribs or bins designed and engineered for whole grain storage and having a useful life of at least the entire term of the loan;
(2) Oxygen-limiting storage structures or remanufactured oxygen-limiting storage structures built to the original manufacturer's design specifications using original manufacturer's rebuild kits or kits from a supplier approved by the Deputy Administrator, Farm Programs, and other upright silo-type structures designed for whole grain storage or other than whole grain storage and with a useful life of at least the entire term of the loan;
(3) Flat-type storage structures including a permanent concrete floor, designed for and primarily used to store facility loan commodities for the term of the loan and having a useful life of at least the entire term of the loan;
(4) Structures that are bunker-type, horizontal, or open silo structures designed for whole grain storage or other than whole grain storage and having a useful life of at least the entire term of the loan;
(5) Structures suitable for storing hay that are built according to acceptable design guidelines from the National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA) or land-grant universities and with a useful life of at least the entire term of the loan;
(6) Structures suitable for storing renewable biomass that are built according to acceptable industry guidelines and with a useful life of at least the entire term of the loan; or
(7) Bulk storage tanks, as approved by the Deputy Administrator, suitable for storing any eligible loan commodity, as determined appropriate by county committees and having a useful life of at least the entire term of the loan.
(b) For all eligible facility loan commodities, except sugar, the calculation of the loan amount may include costs associated with building, improving, or renovating an eligible storage or handling facility, including:
(1) Drying and handling equipment, including perforated floors determined by the FSA approving committee to be needed and essential to the proper functioning of the storage system;
(2) Safety equipment as required by CCC and meeting OSHA requirements such as lighting, and inside and outside ladders;
(3) Equipment to improve, maintain, or monitor the quality of stored eligible facility loan commodity, such as cleaners, moisture testers, and heat detectors;
(4) Electrical equipment, including labor and materials for installation, such as lighting, motors, and wiring integral to the proper operation of the eligible facility loan commodity storage and handling equipment;
(5) Concrete foundations, aprons, pits, and pads (including site preparation, labor and materials) essential to the proper operation of the eligible facility loan commodity storage and handling equipment; and
(6) Flooring appropriate for storing hay and renewable biomass suitable for the region where the facility is located and designed according to acceptable guidelines from NIFA or land-grant universities.
(c) For all eligible facility loan commodities, except sugar, no loans will be made for installation or related costs of:
(1) Structures of a temporary nature that require the weight or bulk of the stored commodity to maintain its shape (such as fences or bags);
(2) Structures that are not suitable for storing the facility loan commodities for which a need is determined; or
(3) Storage structures to be used as a commercial facility. Any facility that is in working proximity to any commercial storage operation will be considered to be part of a commercial storage operation.
(d) Loans for all eligible facility loan commodities, except sugar, may be approved for financing additions to or modifications of an existing storage facility with an expected useful life of at least the entire term of the loan if the county committee determines there is a need for the capacity of the structure, but loans will not be approved solely for the replacement of worn out items such as motors, fans, or wiring.
(e) Loans for all eligible facility loan commodities, except sugar, may be approved for facilities provided the completed facility has a useful life of at least the entire term of the loan. The pre-owned facility must be purchased and moved to a new location. Eligible items for such a loan include costs such as bin rings or roof panels needed to make a purchased pre-owned structure useable, aeration systems, site preparation, construction off-farm paid labor cost, foundation material and off-farm paid labor. Ineligible items for such a loan include the cost of purchasing and moving the used structure.
(f) The provisions of this paragraph apply only to sugar storage facility loans.
(1) The loan amount may include costs associated with the purchase, installation, building, improving, remodeling or renovating an eligible storage or handling facility. Eligible facilities include the following:
(i) Conventional-type bins or silos designed for and used to store raw or refined sugar, having a useful life of at least 15 years;
(ii) Flat-type storage structures including a permanent concrete floor, designed for and used to store raw or refined sugar, having a useful life of at least 15 years;
(iii) Storage structures designed for and used to store in-process sugar, having a useful life of at least 15 years.
(iv) Permanently affixed sugar handling equipment determined by the CCC to be needed and essential to the proper functioning of the sugar storage system;
(v) Safety equipment CCC requires such as lighting, and inside and outside ladders;
(vi) Equipment to improve, maintain, or monitor the quality of stored sugar, such as moisture testers, and heat detectors;
(vii) Electrical equipment, including labor and materials for installation, such as lighting, motors, and wiring integral to the proper operation of the sugar storage and handling equipment; and
(viii) Concrete foundations, aprons, pits, and pads (including site preparation, labor and materials) essential to the proper operation of the sugar storage and handling equipment.
(2) Sugar storage facility, loans may be approved for financing additions to or modifications of an existing storage facility with an expected useful life of at least 15 years if CCC determines there is a need for the capacity of the structure.
(3) No sugar storage facility loans will be made for:
(i) Structures of a temporary natures that require the weight or bulk of the stored commodity to maintain its shape (such as fences or bags);
(ii) Structures that are not suitable for storing raw or refined sugar; or
(iii) Weigh scales.
(g) The provisions of this paragraph apply only to cold storage facility loans.
(1) For cold storage facility loans, the loan amount may include costs associated with the purchase, installation, building, improving, remodeling, or renovating an eligible storage or handling facility. Costs associated with the construction of a cold storage facility include, but are not limited to, the following: An insulated cement slab floor, insulation for walls and ceiling (including, but not limited to, loose fill cellulose, foam insulation sheets, sprayed-on and foam-in-place materials), and a vapor barrier.
(2) Eligible facilities include, but are not limited to, the following:
(i) A cold storage facility of wood pole and post construction, steel, or concrete, that is suitable for storing cold storage commodities produced by the borrower and having a useful life of at least the entire term of the loan;
(ii) Walk-in prefabricated cold storage coolers that are suitable for storing the producer's cold storage commodities and having a useful life of at least the entire term of the loan;
(iii) Equipment necessary for a cold storage facility such as refrigeration units or system and circulation fans;
(iv) Equipment to maintain or monitor the quality of commodities stored in a cold storage facility;
(v) Electrical equipment, including labor and materials for installation, such as lighting, motors, and wiring integral to the proper operation of a cold storage facility.
(3) FSFLs may be approved for financing additions or modifications to an existing storage facility having an expected useful life of at least the entire term of the loan if CCC determines there is a need for the capacity of the cold storage facility.
(4) FSFLs will not be made for structures or equipment that are not suitable for facility loan commodities that require cold storage.
(h) Storage and handling trucks for facility loan commodities are authorized according to guidelines established by the Deputy Administrator. Storage and handling trucks may include, but are not limited to, cold storage reefer
trucks, grain haulers, and may also include storage trucks with a chassis unit. The Deputy Administrator, Farm Programs, or a State Committee may rescind this provision on a Statewide basis if it is determined that allowing loans for storage and handling trucks has increased loan defaults and is not in the best interest of CCC.
(i) The loan collateral must be used for the purpose for which it was delivered, erected, constructed, assembled, or installed for the entire term of the loan.
[66 FR 4612, Jan. 18, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 54938, Aug. 26, 2002; 74 FR 41588, Aug. 18, 2009; 76 FR 4805, Jan. 27, 2011; 81 FR 25593, Apr. 29, 2016]
§ 1436.7
Loan term.
(a) For eligible facility loan commodities other than sugar, the term of the loan will not exceed 12 years, based on the total loan principal and loan request type, from the date a promissory note and security agreement is completed on both the partial and final loan disbursement. As determined by the Deputy Administrator, used equipment FSFLs may have a loan term of 3 or 5 years. The applicant will choose a loan term, based on the loan request type at the time of submitting the loan application and total cost estimates. Available loan terms are 3, 5, 7, 10, or 12 years; available terms for a specific loan will be based on the loan principal and facility or equipment type.
(b) The Deputy Administrator has the discretion and authority to extend loan terms for 1 or 2 years, on a case by case basis. Loan term extensions will only be granted after a written request is received from the producer before loan term expires and when determined appropriate by Deputy Administrator to assist borrowers with additional loan servicing options. Producers and participants who have already agreed to the loan term (maturity date) have no right to an extension of the loan term. The borrower agrees to the loan term through the Promissory Note at the time of distribution. The Deputy Administrator's refusal to exercise discretion to consider an extension will not be considered an adverse decision or a failure to act under any law or regulation and, therefore, is not appealable. Participants are not entitled to extensions or the consideration of a request for extension.
(c) For a sugar-related loan:
(1) CCC, at its discretion, may authorize a maximum loan term of 15 years. The minimum loan term of a sugar-related loan is 7 years.
(2) The loan balance and costs are due at the end of the loan term, which will be established on the date the promissory note and security agreement is executed.
[74 FR 41589, Aug. 18, 2009, as amended at 81 FR 25594, Apr. 29, 2016]
§ 1436.8
Security for loan.
(a) Except as agreed to by CCC, all loans must be secured by a promissory note and security agreement covering the facility and such other assurances as CCC may demand, subject to the following:
(1) The promissory note and security agreement must grant CCC a security interest in the collateral and must be perfected in the manner specified in the laws of the State where the collateral is located.
(2) CCC's security interest in the collateral must be the sole security interest in such collateral except for prior liens on the underlying real estate that by operation of law attach to the collateral if it is or will become a fixture. If any such prior lien on the real estate will attach to the collateral, a severance agreement must be obtained in writing from each holder of such a lien, including all government or USDA agencies. No additional liens or encumbrances may be placed on the facility after the loan is approved unless CCC approves otherwise in writing.
(3) CCC will hold title in accordance to applicable State laws and motor vehicle administration title provisions, to all eligible equipment, structures, components and storage and handling trucks acquired using loan proceeds under this part.
(b) For loan amounts equal to or less than $100,000, or when the aggregate outstanding FSFLs balance will be equal to or less than $100,000, CCC will not require a severance agreement from the holder of any prior lien on the real estate parcel on which the facility
is located. However, the Deputy Administrator, Farm Programs, or a State Committee may, at their discretion, require a severance agreement for loan amounts greater than $50,000 or less than $100,000 for all FSFLs in the State, if deemed necessary to protect the interests of CCC. If no severance agreement is provided, then the borrower must:
(1) Agree to increase the down payment on the facility loan from 15 percent to 20 percent, except for an FSFL microloan; or
(2) Provides other security such as an irrevocable letter of credit or other form of security approved by CCC.
(c) For loan amounts equal to or less than $100,000, or when the aggregate outstanding FSFLs balance will be equal to or less than $100,000, CCC will not require a lien on the real estate parcel on which the facility is located. However, the Deputy Administrator, Farm Programs or a State Committee may, at their discretion, require a lien in the form of a real estate mortgage, deed of trust, or other security instrument approved by USDA's Office of the General Counsel for loans greater than $50,000 or less than $100,000 for all FSFLs in the State, if deemed necessary to protect the interests of CCC. Liens are required for all loans greater than $100,000. All liens must meet the following conditions:
(1) CCC's interest in the real estate must be superior to all other liens, except a loan may be secured by a junior lien on real estate when the loan is adequately secured and a severance agreement is obtained from prior lien holders; and
(2) The real estate security for the loan must be at least equal to the loan amount; and
(3) If the real estate is covered by a prior lien, a lien waiver may be obtained by means of a subordination agreement approved for use in the State by USDA's Office of the General Counsel. CCC will not require such an agreement from any agency of USDA.
(d) Title insurance or a title opinion is required for loans secured by real estate.
(e) Real estate liens, with prior CCC approval, may cover land separate from the collateral if a lien on the underlying real estate is not feasible and if:
(1) The borrower owns the separate acreage and the acreage is not subject to any other liens or mortgages that are superior to CCC's lien interest and
(2) The acreage is of adequate size and value at the time of the application as determined by the county committee to adequately secure and insure repayment of the loan.
(f) A borrower, in lieu of such liens required by this section, may provide an irrevocable letter of credit, bond, or other form of security, as approved by CCC.
(g) If an existing structure is remodeled and an addition becomes an attached, integral part of the existing storage structure, CCC's security interest will include the remodeled addition as well as the existing storage structure.
(h) For all farm storage facility loans, except sugar loans, the borrower must pay the cost of loan closings by attorneys, title opinions, title insurance, title searches, filing, and recording all real estate liens, fixture filings, appraisals if requested by the borrower, and all subordinations. CCC will pay costs relating to credit reports, collateral lien searches, and filing and recording financing statements for the collateral.
(i) For loan amounts equal to or less than $100,000, or when the aggregate outstanding FSFLs balance will be equal to or less than $100,000, and secured by collateral without any resale value, as determined by CCC, additional security will not be required. However, the Deputy Administrator, Farm Programs or a State Committee may, at their discretion, for all FSFLs in the State, require additional security for loan amounts greater than $50,000 or less than $100,000 that are secured by collateral without any resale value if deemed necessary to protect the interests of the CCC.
(j) For sugar storage facility loans, in addition to other requirements in this section, additional security, including real estate, chattels, crops in storage, and other assets owned by the applicant, is required if deemed necessary by CCC to adequately secure the loan.
A sugar storage facility loan will generally be considered to be adequately secured when the CCC-determined value of security for the loan is equal to at least 125 percent of the loan amount.
(k) For sugar storage facility loans, paragraph (h) of this section is not applicable. However, the borrower must pay all loan making fees and closing costs. This includes, but is not limited to, attorney fees for loan closings, environmental assessments and studies, chattel and real estate appraisals, title opinions, title insurance, title searches, and filing and recording all real estate liens, fixture filings, subordinations, credit reports, collateral lien searches, and filing and recording financing statements for the collateral.
[74 FR 41589, Aug. 18, 2009, as amended at 79 FR 13192, Mar. 10, 2014; 81 FR 25594, Apr. 29, 2016]
§ 1436.9
Loan amount and loan application approvals.
(a) The cost on which the loan will be based is the net cost of the eligible facility, accessories, and services to the applicant after discounts and rebates, not to exceed a maximum per-bushel, -ton or, -cubic foot cost established by the FSA State committee.
(b) The net cost for all facilities:
(1) May include the following: All real estate lien related fees paid by the borrower, including attorney fees, except for filing fees; environmental and historic review fees including archaeological study fees; the facility purchase price; sales tax; shipping; delivery charges; site preparation costs; installation cost; material and labor for concrete pads and foundations; material and labor for electrical wiring; electrical motors; off-farm paid labor; on-farm site preparation and construction equipment costs not to exceed commercial rates approved by the county committee; and recently required on-farm material approved by the county committee.
(2) May not include secondhand material or any other item determined by the approving authority to be ineligible for loan.
(c) The maximum total principal amount of the FSFL, except for FSFL microloans, is 85 percent of the net cost of the applicant's needed facility, not to exceed $500,000 per loan. For FSFL microloans the maximum total principal amount of the farm storage facility loan is 95 percent of the net costs of the applicant's needed storage, handling facility, including drying and handling equipment, or storage and handling trucks, not to exceed an aggregate outstanding balance of $50,000.
(d) The storage need requirement for eligible facility loan commodities will be determined as follows:
(1) For facility loan commodities, except sugar, cold storage commodities, maple sap, and milk:
(i) Multiply the average of the applicant's share of the acres farmed for the most recent three years for each type of facility loan commodity requiring suitable storage at the proposed facility;
(ii) By a yield determined reasonable by the county committee;
(iii) Multiply by two (for 2 years production); and
(iv) Subtract existing storage capacity in the units of measurement, such as bushels, tons, or cubic feet, for the type of storage needed to determine remaining storage need.
(v) Compare capacity of proposed facility with storage need (calculated as specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i)-(iv) of this section) to determine if applicant is eligible for additional storage.
(2) For sugar storage facility loans,
(i) Identify past processing volume and marketing allotments;
(ii) Use the processor's projection of processing volume, available storage capacity, volume not to be marketed due to marketing allotment, and other appropriate factors affecting the processor's storage need to estimate the storage need requirement, and
(iii) Compare capacity of proposed facility with storage need (estimated as specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i)-(ii) of this section) to determine if additional storage is required.
(3) For cold storage facilities:
(i) Multiply the average of the applicant's share of production or of acres farmed for the most recent 3 years for each eligible commodity requiring cold storage at the proposed facility;
(ii) By a yield determined reasonable by the county committee;
(iii) Determine cold storage needed (calculated as specified in paragraphs (d)(3)(i)-(ii) of this section) with the assistance of NIFA, land-grant university, or ARS publications; and
(iv) Subtract existing cold storage capacity to determine remaining storage need.
(v) Compare capacity of proposed cold storage facility with cold storage need (calculated as specified in paragraphs (d)(3)(i)-(iv) of this section) to determine if applicant is eligible for additional cold storage.
(4) For all eligible facility loan commodities, except sugar, if acreage data is not practicable or available for State and County Committees or authorized FSA staff to determine the storage need, specifically, but not limited to, maple sap, eggs, butter, cheese, yogurt, milk, meat and poultry, a reasonable production yield, such as ERS or NASS data may be used to determine the storage capacity need. A reasonable production yield may also be used for newly acquired farms, specialty farming, changes in cropping operations, prevented planted acres, or for facility loan commodities being grown for the first time.
(5) For FSFL microloans if the FSA State and county committees determine that self-certification is practicable based on the applicant's farm operation, then CCC may allow applicants to self-certify to the storage capacity need. The Deputy Administrator, Farm Programs, or an FSA State committee may rescind the FSFL microloan provision on a Statewide basis if it is determined that allowing FSFL microloans has increased the likelihood of loan defaults and is not in the best interest of CCC.
(e) When a storage structure has a larger capacity than the applicant's needed capacity, as determined by CCC, the net cost eligible for a loan will be prorated. Only costs associated with the applicant's needed storage capacity will be considered eligible for loan under this part.
(f) Any borrower with an outstanding loan must use the financed structure only for the storage of eligible facility loan commodities. If a borrower uses such structure for other purposes such as office space or display area, the loan amount will be adjusted for the ineligible space as determined by CCC.
(g) The FSA county committee may approve applications, if loan funds are available, up to the maximum approval amount unless the Deputy Administrator, Farm Programs, or the FSA State committee establishes a lower limit for county committee approval authority.
(h) The Farm storage facility loan approval period, which is the timeframe, from approval until expiration, during which the facility must be completely and fully delivered, erected, constructed, assembled, or installed and a CCC representative has inspected and approved such facility for all eligible facility loan commodities except sugar, will expire 6 months after the date of approval unless extended in writing for an additional 6 months by the FSA State Committee. A second 6 month extension, for a total of 18 months from the original approval date, may be approved by the FSA State Committee. This authority will not be re-delegated. Sugar storage facility loan approvals will expire 8 months after the date of approval unless extended in writing for an additional 4 months by the FSA State Committee.
(i) For sugar storage facility loans, paragraphs (c) and (g) of this section do not apply.
(j) For sugar storage facility loans, the agency approval officials may only approve loans, subject to available funds.
[74 FR 41590, Aug. 18, 2009, as amended at 76 FR 4805, Jan. 27, 2011; 81 FR 25595, Apr. 29, 2016]
§ 1436.10
Down payment.
(a) A minimum down payment representing the difference between the net cost of the facility and the amount of the loan determined in accordance with § 1436.9 will be made by the loan applicant to the supplier or contractor before either the partial or final loan disbursements.
(b) The down payment must be in cash unless some other form of payment is approved by CCC. The down payment may be obtained by the borrower from another lending source.
(c) The down payment may not include any trade-in, discount, rebate, credit, deferred payment, post-dated check, or promissory note to the supplier or contractor.
(d) The minimum down payment for an FSFL will be 5 percent for an FSFL microloan and 15 percent for all other FSFLs, with the down payment to be calculated as a percentage of net cost as specified in § 1436.9. As specified in § 1436.8, a larger down payment may be required to meet security requirements.
[66 FR 4612, Jan. 18, 2001, as amended at 74 FR 41590, Aug. 18, 2009; 81 FR 25595, Apr. 29, 2016]
§ 1436.11
Disbursements and assignments.
(a) At the request of the borrower, one partial disbursement of loan principal and one final loan disbursement will be available. The partial loan disbursement will be made to facilitate the purchase and construction of an eligible facility and will be made after the approved applicant has completed construction on part of the structure. County FSA personnel will inspect and verify the amount of construction completed.
(1) The amount of the partial loan disbursement will be determined by CCC and made after the borrower provides acceptable documentation for that portion of the completed construction to the County Committee.
(2) Security required for the amount of the partial loan disbursement will be required before the partial loan disbursement is finalized.
(3) The final disbursement of the loan by CCC will be made after the facility has been completely and fully delivered, erected, constructed, assembled, or installed and a CCC representative has inspected and approved such facility.
(4) All additional security needed to fully secure both the partial and final loan disbursements must be received before the final loan disbursement.
(b) Both the partial and final loan disbursements will be made only if the borrower furnishes satisfactory evidence of the total cost of the facility and payment of all debts on the facility in excess of the amount of the loan. If deemed appropriate by CCC, the partial and final disbursement may have separate notes and separate security instruments.
(c) Both the partial and final loan disbursement will be made jointly to the borrower and the contractor or supplier, except disbursement may be made to the borrower solely where CCC determines, based upon information made available to CCC by the borrower, that the borrower has paid the contractor or supplier all amounts that are due and owing with respect to the facility and that all applicable liens, security interests, or other encumbrances have been released.
(d) A release of liability will be required from all contractors and suppliers providing goods and services to the loan applicant.
(e) Loan proceeds cannot be assigned.
(f) For sugar storage facility loans, only one disbursement will be made and such disbursement will be regarded as a final disbursement.
[74 FR 41591, Aug. 18, 2009, as amended at 81 FR 25595, Apr. 29, 2016]
§ 1436.12
Interest and fees.
(a) Loans will bear interest at the rate equivalent, as determined by CCC, to the rate of interest charged on Treasury securities of comparable term and maturity on the date the loan is initially approved.
(b) The interest rate for each loan will remain in effect for the term of the loan.
(c) Each borrower on a loan application must pay a non-refundable application fee in such amount determined appropriate by CCC; the fee will be not less than $100 per borrower. The loan application fee is determined based on the cost of the fees associated with the loan, including, but not limited to, the cost to CCC for lien searches, security filings, and credit reports.
(d) For sugar storage facility loans, paragraph (c) of this section does not apply.
[73 FR 41591, Aug. 18, 2009]
§ 1436.13
Loan installments, delinquency, and acceleration of maturity date.
(a) Equal installments of principal plus interest will be amortized over the loan term for purposes of setting a payment schedule. Installments are due and payable not later than the last day of each 12-month period of each of the partial and final loan disbursements, until the principal plus interest has been paid in full.
(b) Each installment may be paid in cash, money order, wire transfer, or by personal, certified, or cashier's check. Each payment will be applied first to accrued interest and then to principal.
(c) When installments are not paid on the due date:
(1) CCC will generally mail a demand for payment to the debtor after the due date has passed.
(2) If the installment is not paid within 30 calendar days of the due date or if a new due date acceptable to CCC has not been established based on a financial plan submitted by the debtor, CCC may send two subsequent written demands at approximately 30 calendar day intervals unless CCC needs to take other action to protect the interests of CCC.
(3) If the debtor files an appeal according to § 1436.18, CCC will generally cease collection action until the appeal process is complete, however, CCC may withhold any payments due the debtor and, depending on the outcome of the appeal, any payments due the debtor may later be offset and applied to reduce the indebtedness.
(4) In lieu of a foreclosure on the collateral or the land securing a loan in the case of a delinquency, CCC may permit a rescheduling of the debt or other measures consistent with the collection of other debts under the provisions of part 1403 of this chapter. Any rescheduling or alternate repayment arrangements will be permitted only with prior approval from the Deputy Administrator, Farm Programs. Alternately, CCC may implement such other collection procedures as it deems appropriate.
(d) A claim will be established against a borrower for any amounts remaining due after liquidation of the loan.
(e) CCC may declare the entire indebtedness immediately due and payable if the borrower violates any of the terms and conditions of this part, fails to pay any installment on time, or breaches any of the terms and conditions of any of the instruments executed in connection with the loan, or if , during the life of the loan, the collateral is used in connection with or by any unauthorized commercial facility including, but not limited to, elevators, warehouses, dryers, processing plants, or retail or wholesale cold storage facilities.
(f) Any action authorized by the provisions of this section may be taken:
(1) Against a debtor's pro rata share of payments due any entity that the borrower participates in, either directly or indirectly, as determined by CCC.
(2) Against related persons or entities, irrespective of the debtor's, share, when CCC determines that the debtor has established an entity, or reorganized, transferred ownership of, or changed in some other manner, their operation, for the purpose of avoiding the payment of the debt.
(g) The loan may be paid in full or in part without penalty at any time before maturity.
(h) Upon payment of a loan, CCC will release CCC's security interest in the collateral.
[66 FR 4612, Jan. 18, 2001, as amended at 74 FR 41591, Aug. 18, 2009]
§ 1436.14
Taxes.
The borrower must pay, when due, all real and personal property taxes that may affect CCC's security interest in all collateral or land securing the note evidencing the loan. To protect its interests, CCC may pay any unpaid taxes with respect to the collateral or land securing a loan made in accordance with this part, and if CCC does so, the borrower will reimburse CCC for such payment, and if unpaid by the borrower, such debt will become due immediately.
[66 FR 4612, Jan. 18, 2001, as amended at 74 FR 41591, Aug. 18, 2009]
§ 1436.15
Maintenance, liability, insurance, and inspections.
(a) The borrower must maintain the loan collateral in a condition suitable for the storage or handling of one or more of the facility loan commodities.
(b) Until the loan has been repaid, the borrower will be liable for all damages to or destruction of the collateral. CCC will not assume any loss of the collateral.
(c) CCC may conduct annual collateral inspections to insure compliance with this part. The borrower must consent to such inspection as a term of the loan and failure to supply such access will put the borrower into default.
(d) Facilities must be insured against all perils in all cases and must also be insured against flooding if the structure is located in a flood plain, as determined by CCC. Proof of flood insurance, if required, and proof of all peril insurance, must be provided to CCC annually. CCC must be listed as a loss payee on all peril and flood insurance policies.
(e) CCC will have rights to enter, leave, and return to the property where the facility is located. Failure of the borrower to secure such access will render a borrower ineligible for the loan and, if a loan has already been made will constitute a loan default for which the remaining balance of the loan will become immediately due and payable.
(f) For sugar storage facility loans, in addition to the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section, sugar processors must also insure the contents of storage structures used as collateral for a sugar storage facility loan against all perils.
[66 FR 4612, Jan. 18, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 54939, Aug. 26, 2002; 74 FR 41591, Aug. 18, 2009; 81 FR 25595, Apr. 29, 2016; 82 FR 16101, Apr. 3, 2016]
§ 1436.16
Foreclosure, liquidation, assumptions, sales or conveyance, or bankruptcy.
(a) The collateral or land securing a loan may be sold by CCC whenever CCC has declared the entire indebtedness immediately due and payable under this part as follows:
(1) If a demand for payment is not received by the due date acceptable to CCC, CCC may call the loan and initiate foreclosure proceedings by issuing a liquidation letter to the borrower.
(2) The debtor may voluntarily agree to allow removal of the collateral to facilitate sale by signing an agreement for sale. If the debtor objects to removal of collateral, the law of the State where the collateral exists will be used to foreclose on the property.
(3) For loans with movable collateral and no real estate lien, CCC may sell the collateral for the best price obtainable. Sales proceeds will be distributed in the following order:
(i) To CCC to satisfy the debtor's indebtedness including all costs associated with selling the collateral.
(ii) Payment to junior lien holders if approved by USDA's Office of the General Counsel and then to the borrower or other persons as determined appropriate by that office.
(4) For loans with non-movable or non-salable collateral, as determined by CCC, and no real estate lien, CCC may establish a claim according to 7 CFR part 1403.
(5) For loans secured with a real estate lien, CCC may obtain an appraisal of the property. Sales proceeds will be distributed in the following order:
(i) To CCC to satisfy the debtor's indebtedness including all costs associated with selling the collateral and the appraisal.
(ii) To junior lien holders if approved by USDA's Office of the General Counsel; or
(iii) To the borrower or other persons as determined appropriate by that office.
(b) Assumption by another borrower of a farm storage facility loan is permitted subject to county committee approval and the subsequent borrower's ability to show a satisfactory credit history. An assumption of the loan may be approved when the collateral is sold by CCC to an otherwise eligible borrower, the current borrower will convey the collateral or property securing the loan to another eligible borrower, or the borrower is dead, incompetent, or missing and an eligible borrower wants to assume the loan.
(1) Requests for approval of assumptions must be made to the county committee by the borrower, the borrower's
successors, or representatives of the borrower. If approval is granted, the borrower's successors or representatives must execute a new farm storage facility note and security agreement for the balance of the term of the loan.
(2) The principal amount of the loan will include the unpaid amount of the loan, interest computed to the date of assumption, all past due installments, and any other charges that may be required.
(c) The borrower may voluntarily convey the collateral to CCC before repaying the loan. Before a borrower sells or conveys the facilities securing a loan without repaying the loan in full, the borrower must obtain approval for the sale or conveyance from the FSA county committee with the understanding that sale proceeds must be paid to satisfy the borrower's indebtedness to CCC.
(d) If any significant changes are made to the legal or operating status of the farming operation with an outstanding Farm Storage Facility Loan, the borrower must do one of the following:
(1) Find an eligible borrower or entity to assume the loan as specified in paragraph (b) of this section,
(2) Repay the loan, or
(3) Undergo new financial analysis, as approved and determined by CCC, to ensure CCC's interests are protected and that the current borrower is in a position to continue making the scheduled loan payments.
(e) Remedies provided for in this section will, unless CCC determines otherwise, be subject to the administrative appeals provided for elsewhere in this part, including those that are found at § 1436.13.
[66 FR 4612, Jan. 18, 2001, as amended at 74 FR 41591, Aug. 18, 2009; 81 FR 25595, Apr. 29, 2016]
§ 1436.18
Appeals.
The appeal, reconsideration, or review of all determinations made under this part, except for provisions for which there are no appeal rights because they are determined rules of general applicability, must be in accordance with parts 11 and 780 of this title.
§ 1436.19
Equal Opportunity and Non-discrimination requirements.
(a) No recipient of a Storage Facility loan will directly, or through contractual or other arrangement, subject any person or cause any person to be subjected to discrimination on the basis of race, religion, color, national origin, gender, or other prohibited basis. Borrowers must comply with all applicable Federal laws and regulations regarding equal opportunity in hiring, procurement, and related matters. FSFL borrowers are subject to the nondiscrimination provisions applicable to Federally assisted programs contained in 7 CFR parts 15 and 15b.
(b) With respect to any aspect of a credit transaction, CCC will not discriminate against any applicant on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, disability, sex, marital status, familial status, parental status, sexual orientation, genetic information, political beliefs, reprisal, or age, provided the applicant can execute a legal contract. Nor will CCC discriminate on the basis of whether all or a part of the applicant's income derives from any public assistance program, or whether the applicant in good faith, exercises any rights under the Consumer Protection Act. FSFL is subject to the nondiscrimination provisions applicable to Federally conducted programs contained in 7 CFR parts 15d and 15e.
[67 FR 54939, Aug. 26, 2002. Redesignated at 67 FR 65690, Oct. 28, 2002; 74 FR 41592, Aug. 18, 2009]
Pt. 1437

# PART 1437—NONINSURED CROP DISASTER ASSISTANCE PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
1437.1
Applicability.
1437.2
Administration.
1437.3
Definitions.
1437.4
Eligibility.
1437.5
Coverage levels.
1437.6
Coverage period.
1437.7
Application for coverage, service fee, premium, transfers of coverage, and acreage report.
1437.8
Records.
1437.9
Unit division.
1437.10
Causes of loss.
1437.11
Notice of loss, appraisal requirements, and application for payment.
1437.12
Average market price and payment factors.
1437.13
Crop definition.
1437.14
Multiple benefits.
1437.15
Payment and income limitations.
1437.16
Miscellaneous provisions.
1437.17
Matters of general applicability.

# Subpart B—Determining Yield Coverage Using Actual Production History
1437.101
Actual production history.
1437.102
Yield determinations.
1437.103
Late-planted acreage.
1437.104
Assigned production.
1437.105
Determining payments for low yield.
1437.106
Honey.
1437.107
Maple sap.
1437.108
Hemp.
1437.109-1437.200
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Determining Coverage for Prevented Planted Acreage
1437.201
Prevented planting acreage.
1437.202
Determining payments for prevented planting.
1437.203-1437.300
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Determining Coverage Using Value
1437.301
Value loss.
1437.302
Determining payments.
1437.303
Aquaculture, including ornamental fish.
1437.304
Floriculture.
1437.305
Ornamental nursery.
1437.306
Christmas tree crops.
1437.307
Mushrooms.
1437.308
Ginseng.
1437.309
Turfgrass sod.
1437.310
Sea grass and sea oats.
1437.311-1437.400
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Determining Coverage of Forage Intended for Animal Consumption
1437.401
Forage.
1437.402
Carrying capacity.
1437.403
Determining payments.
1437.404
Information collection requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act; OMB control number.

# Subpart F—Determining Coverage in the Tropical Region
1437.501
Applicability; definition of “tropical region” and additional definitions
1437.502
Coverage periods and fees for covered tropical crops.
1437.503
Covered losses and recordkeeping requirements for covered tropical crops.
1437.504
Notice of loss for covered tropical crops.
1437.505
Application for payment for the tropical region.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1501-1508 and 7333; 15 U.S.C. 714-714m; 19 U.S.C. 2497, and 48 U.S.C. 1469a.

# Source:
67 FR 12448, Mar. 19, 2002, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 1437.1
Applicability.
(a) The purpose of the Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program (NAP) is to help manage and reduce production risks faced by producers of eligible commercial crops or other agricultural commodities during a coverage period. NAP reduces financial losses that occur when natural disasters (damaging weather or adverse natural occurrence that is an eligible cause of loss) cause a loss of expected production or actual value for value loss crops, or where producers are prevented from planting an eligible crop because of an eligible cause of loss in a coverage period.
(b) The provisions in this part are applicable to eligible producers and eligible crops for which catastrophic risk protection is not available under subsection (b) of section 508 of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1508) and additional coverage under subsections (c) and (h) of section 508 or, if coverage is available, it is only available under a policy that provides coverage for specific intervals based on weather indexes or under a whole farm plan of insurance.
(c) The regulations in this part are applicable to the 2019 and subsequent crop years.
[79 FR 74571, Dec. 15, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 12218, Mar. 2, 2020]
§ 1437.2
Administration.
(a) NAP is administered under the general supervision of the Administrator, Farm Service Agency (FSA) (who also serves as the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) Executive Vice President), and the Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, FSA, (referred to as “Deputy Administrator” in this part). NAP is carried out by FSA State and county committees
(State and county committees) with instructions issued by the Deputy Administrator.
(b) State and county committees, and representatives and their employees, do not have authority to modify or waive any of the provisions of the regulations in this part, NAP's basic provisions, or instructions issued by the Deputy Administrator.
(c) The State committee will take any action required by the regulations in this part that the county committee has not taken. The State committee will also:
(1) Correct, or require a county committee to correct, any action taken by such county committee that is not in accordance with the regulations in this part; or
(2) Require a county committee to withhold taking any action that is not in accordance with this part.
(d) No delegation to a State or county committee precludes the FSA Administrator, the Deputy Administrator, or a designee, from determining any question arising under NAP or from reversing or modifying any determination made by a State or county committee.
(e) The Deputy Administrator has the authority to permit State and county committees to waive or modify deadlines (except deadlines specified in a law) and other requirements or program provisions not specified in law, in cases where lateness or failure to meet such other requirements or program provisions do not adversely affect operation of NAP.
(1) Producers and participants have no right to a decision in response to a request to waive or modify deadlines or program provisions. The Deputy Administrator's refusal to consider such a request or a decision not to exercise this discretionary authority under this section is not an adverse decision and is not appealable.
(2) FSA's decision not to consider a case under this section is not a failure to act under any law or regulation because participants have no right to a decision on a request for waiver or modification.
(f) Items including, but not limited to, application periods, application deadlines, basic provisions, internal operating guidelines issued to FSA State and county offices, coverage periods, fees, prices, yields, and payment factors established for NAP in accordance with this part that are used for similarly situated participants and eligible crops are not to be construed to be individual program eligibility determinations or extent of eligibility determinations and are, therefore, not subject to administrative review.
(g) Where there is any conflict between the basic provisions and the regulations, the regulations apply except when the Deputy Administrator determines that because of the timing of issuance of the regulations, the basic provisions applicable to the specific crop year or coverage period that may be less restrictive will apply.
[79 FR 74571, Dec. 15, 2014]
§ 1437.3
Definitions.
The terms and definitions in this section apply to NAP. The terms and definitions in part 718 of this title and part 1400 of this chapter also apply to NAP, except where those same terms are defined in this section. In that case, the terms and definitions of this section apply.
Abandoned
means to have discontinued care for a crop or provided care so insignificant as to provide no benefit to the crop, or failed to harvest in a timely manner.
Acres devoted to the eligible crop
means the total planted and considered planted (P
CP) acres of the eligible crop.
Additional coverage
means insurance coverage offered by the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation under sections 508(c) or 508(h) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act.
Administrative county office
means the county FSA office designated to make determinations, handle official records, and issue payments for the producer in accordance with 7 CFR part 718.
Agricultural experts
means persons who are employed by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture, or the agricultural departments of universities, or other persons approved by FSA, whose research or occupation is related to the specific crop or practice for which such expertise is sought.
Animal Unit Days (AUD)
means an expression of expected or actual stocking rate for pasture or forage.
Application closing date
means the last date, as determined by FSA, producers can submit an application for coverage for noninsured crops for the specified crop year and coverage period.
Application for coverage
means:
(1) The form specified by FSA to be completed by a producer applying for NAP coverage for an eligible crop that is accompanied by the service fee or the service fee waiver form, or
(2) Another applicable form, designated by the Deputy Administrator to qualify as an application for NAP, that the producer has on file with FSA before the deadline for application for the coverage period which certifies they are eligible for a service fee waiver.
Basic provisions
means the document summarizing the terms and conditions of NAP coverage for a crop year that are acknowledged as having been received by the person or legal entity who signs an application for coverage according to this part.
Buffer zone
means a parcel of land, as designated in an organic system plan, that separates agricultural commodities grown under organic practices from agricultural commodities grown under non-organic practices and is used to minimize the possibility of unintended contact by prohibited substances or organisms.
Buy-up coverage
means NAP assistance that is available for all eligible NAP covered crops (other than for crops and grasses intended for grazing) at a payment amount that is equal to an indemnity amount calculated for buy-up coverage computed under section 508(c) or (h) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act and equal to the amount that the buy-up coverage yield for the crop exceeds the actual yield for the crop.
Buy-up coverage yield
means not less than 50 percent nor greater than 65 percent of the approved yield for the crop, as elected by the NAP covered participant and specified in 5-percent increments.
Bypass year
means a year that the producer did not obtain NAP coverage for the crop and did not file a report of acreage or production, or obtained NAP coverage for the crop and had reported or determined zero acres devoted to the eligible crop.
Catastrophic coverage
means:
(1) For insured crops, the coverage offered by the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation (FCIC) under section 508(b) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act.
(2) For eligible NAP crops, coverage at the following levels due to an eligible cause of loss impacting the NAP covered crop during the coverage period:
(i) Prevented planting in excess of 35 percent of the intended acres;
(ii) A yield loss in excess of 50 percent of the approved yield;
(iii) A value loss in excess of 50 percent; or
(iv) An animal-unit-days (AUD) loss greater than 50 percent of expected AUD.
Certified organic acreage
means acreage in the certified organic farming operation that has been certified by a certifying agent as conforming to organic standards specified in part 205 of this title.
Certifying agent
means a private or governmental entity accredited by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary for the purpose of certifying a production, processing or handling operation as organic.
Conventional farming practice
means any good farming practice that is not an organic farming practice.
Crop year
means the calendar year in which the crop is normally harvested or in which the majority of the crop would have been harvested. For value loss and other specific commodities, see the applicable subpart and section of this part. For crops for which catastrophic coverage or buy-up coverage is available, the crop year will be as defined by such coverage.
Feedstock
means a crop including, but not limited to, grasses or legumes, algae, cotton, peanuts, coarse grains, small grains, oil seeds, or short rotation woody crops, that is grown expressly for the purpose of producing a biobased material or product, and does not include residues and by-products of crops grown for any other purpose.
Fiber
means a slender and greatly elongated natural plant filament, e.g. cotton, flax, etc. used in manufacturing, as determined by FSA.
Final planting date
means the date which marks the end of the planting period for the crop and in particular the last day, as determined by FSA, the crop can be planted to reasonably expect to achieve 100 percent of the expected yield in the intended harvest year or planting period.
Food
means a material consisting essentially of protein, carbohydrates, and fat used in the body to sustain growth, repair, and vital processes including the crops used for the preparation of food, as determined by FSA.
Generally recognized
means when agricultural experts or organic agricultural experts, as applicable, are aware of the production method or practice and there is no genuine dispute regarding whether the production method or practice allows the crop to make normal progress toward maturity and produce at least the yield used to determine the production guarantee or amount of insurance.
Good farming practices
means the cultural practices generally recognized as compatible with agronomic and weather conditions and used for the crop to make normal progress toward maturity and produce at least the individual unit approved yield, as determined by FSA. These practices are:
(1) For conventional farming practices, those generally recognized by agricultural experts for the area, which could include one or more counties; or
(2) For organic farming practices, those generally recognized by the organic agricultural experts for the area or contained in the organic system plan that is in accordance with the National Organic Program specified in part 205 of this title.
Guarantee
means the level of coverage provided based on the application for coverage and buy-up coverage elected under the provisions of this part.
Hand-harvested crop
means a non-forage crop that is not harvested mechanically and is removed from a field by hand.
Harvested
means the producer has removed the crop from the field by hand, mechanically, or by grazing of livestock. The crop is considered harvested once it is removed from the field and placed in a truck or other conveyance or is consumed through the act of grazing. Crops normally placed in a truck or other conveyance and taken off the crop acreage, such as hay are considered harvested when in the bale, whether removed from the field or not.
Hemp
means the plant
Cannabis sativa L.
and any part of that plant, including the seeds thereof and all derivatives, extracts, cannabinoids, isomers, acids, salts, and salts of isomers, whether growing or not, with a THC concentration of not more than 0.3 percent on a dry weight basis.
Hemp processor
means any business enterprise regularly engaged in processing hemp that possesses all licenses and permits for processing hemp required by the applicable state or Federal governing authority, and that possesses facilities, or has contractual access to such facilities with enough equipment to accept and process contracted hemp within a reasonable amount of time after harvest.
Hemp processor contract
means a legal written agreement executed between the producer and hemp processor engaged in the production and processing of hemp containing at a minimum:
(1) The producer's promise to plant and grow hemp and to deliver all hemp to the hemp processor;
(2) The hemp processor's promise to purchase the hemp produced by the producer; and
(3) A base contract price, or method to derive a value that will be paid to the producer for the production as specified in the processor's contract.
(4) For a producer who is also a hemp processor, a corporate resolution by the Board of Directors or officers of the hemp processor will be considered a hemp processor contract if it contains the required terms listed in this definition.
Industrial crop
means a commercial crop, or other agricultural commodity used in manufacturing or grown expressly for the purpose of producing a feedstock for renewable biofuel, renewable electricity, or biobased products. Industrial crops include castor beans, chia, crambe, crotalaria, cuphea, guar, guayule, hesperaloe, kenaf, lesquerella,
meadowfoam, milkweed, plantago ovato, sesame, and other crops specifically designated by FSA. Industrial crops exclude any plant that FSA has determined to be either a noxious weed or an invasive species. A list of plants that are noxious weeds and invasive species will be available in the FSA county office.
Maximum dollar value for coverage sought
means the total dollar amount elected by the NAP covered participant for which buy-up coverage may be considered for a value loss crop in a coverage period. The amount is set by the NAP covered participant for each value loss crop and represents the highest amount of field market value of the crop before disaster in a coverage period.
Multiple planted
means the same crop is planted and harvested during two or more distinct planting periods in the same crop year, as determined by FSA.
Native sod
means land on which the natural state plant cover before tilling was composed principally of native grasses, grass-like plants, forbs, or shrubs suitable for grazing and browsing and is land that has never been tilled (determined in accordance with information collected and maintained by an agency of the USDA or other verifiable records that are provided by a producer and acceptable to FSA).
Normal harvest date
means the date harvest of the crop is normally completed in the administrative county, as determined by FSA.
Organic agricultural experts
means persons who are employed by the following organizations: Appropriate Technology Transfer for Rural Areas, Sustainable Agriculture Research and Education, or the National Institute of Food and Agriculture, the agricultural departments of universities, or other persons approved by FSA, whose research or occupation is related to the specific practice for which such expertise is sought.
Organic crop
means an agricultural commodity that is organically produced consistent with section 2103 of the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6502).
Organic farming practice
means a system of plant production practices used to produce an organic crop that is approved by a certifying agent in accordance with 7 CFR part 205.
Organic standards
means standards in accordance with the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6501-6523) and 7 CFR part 205.
Organic system plan
means a plan of management of an organic production or handling operation that has been agreed to by the producer or handler and the certifying agent and that includes written plans concerning all aspects of agricultural production or handling described in the Organic Foods Production Act and the regulations in 7 CFR part 205, subpart C.
Prohibited substance
means any biological, chemical, or other agent that is prohibited from use or is not included in the organic standards for use on any certified organic, transitional, or buffer zone acreage. Lists of such substances are specified in §§ 205.602 and 205.604 of this title.
Secondary use
means the harvested production bears little resemblance to, or has a different unit of expression than, the unit of expression for the reported intended use. It does not apply to fresh and processed harvested production; is not salvage; not counted as production of the crop for the following purposes, including, but not limited to:
(1) The determination of whether the unit suffered requisite loss; and
(2) APH and approved yield.
Seed crop
means propagation stock commercially produced for sale as seed stock for eligible crops.
Seeded forage
means forage on acreage mechanically seeded with forage vegetation at regular intervals, at least every 7 years, in accordance with good farming practices.
Short rotation woody crops
means fast-growing trees that reach their economically optimum size between 4 and 20 years old.
T-Yield
means the yield which is based on the county expected yield of the crop for the crop year and is used on an adjusted or unadjusted basis to calculate the approved yield for crops covered under the NAP when less than four years of actual, assigned, or appraised yields are available in the APH data base.
THC
means delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol.
Transitional acreage
means acreage on which organic farming practices are being followed that does not yet qualify to be designated as organic acreage.
Transitional yield
means an estimated yield of that name provided in the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation (FCIC) actuarial table which is used to calculate an average/approved APH yield for crops insured under the Federal Crop Insurance Act when less than four years of actual, temporary, and/or assigned yields are available on a crop by county basis.
[67 FR 12448, Mar. 19, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 13742, Mar. 17, 2006; 76 FR 4805, Jan. 27, 2011; 78 FR 21018, Apr. 9, 2013; 79 FR 74572, 74583, Dec. 15, 2014; 85 FR 12218, Mar. 2, 2020; 88 FR 1891, Jan. 11, 2023]
§ 1437.4
Eligibility.
(a) Noninsured crop disaster assistance is available during the coverage period specified in § 1437.6 for loss of production or loss of value for value loss crops or prevented planting of eligible commercial crops or other eligible agricultural commodities:
(1) Planted during the planting period, which means the time during which a majority of the crop is normally planted in the area, as determined by FSA, and is considered timely-planted for NAP purposes;
(2) Prevented from being planted during the planting period;
(3) Planted during the late planting period, which means the time after the planting period, during which certain crops, as determined by FSA, may be planted and remain eligible for reduced NAP coverage; and
(4) Determined by FSA to be eligible crops for which:
(i) Catastrophic risk protection and additional coverage under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1508(b), (c), and (h)) are not available or, if coverage is available, it is only available under a policy that provides coverage for specific intervals based on weather indexes or under a whole farm plan of insurance; or
(ii) These specific practices for these crops are not included under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1508), but only when the Deputy Administrator determines in advance of a coverage period that the specific practice is appropriate for NAP coverage and is not available for coverage under Federal crop insurance.
(iii) The producer applies good farming practices.
(b) When other conditions are met, NAP may be available for an eligible loss of:
(1) Any commercial crop grown for food, excluding livestock and their by-products;
(2) Any commercial crop planted and grown for livestock consumption, including but not limited to grain and forage crops;
(3) Any commercial crop grown for fiber, excluding trees grown for wood, paper, or pulp products; and
(4) Any commercial production of:
(i) Aquacultural species (including ornamental fish);
(ii) Floricultural crops;
(iii) Ornamental nursery plants;
(iv) Christmas tree crops;
(v) Turfgrass sod;
(vi) Sweet sorghum;
(vii) Biomass sorghum;
(viii) Industrial crops (including those grown expressly for the purpose of producing a feedstock for renewable biofuel, renewable electricity, or biobased products);
(ix) Seed crops, including propagation stock such as non-ornamental seedlings, sets, cuttings, rootstock, and others, as determined by FSA; and
(x) Sea grass and sea oats.
(c) Except as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, paragraph (d) of this section will apply to native sod acreage in Iowa, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, and South Dakota that has been tilled:
(1) During the first 4 crop years of planting for native sod acreage that has been tilled for the production of an annual crop during the period beginning on February 8, 2014, and ending on December 20, 2018; and
(2) For not more than any 4 crop years for native sod acreage that has been tilled for the production of any crop after December 20, 2018:
(i) During the first 10 crop years after the initial tillage; and
(ii) For which a NAP applicant must submit a service fee or NAP premium for a crop on that acreage.
(d) For acreage specified in paragraph (c) of this section:
(1) The approved yield will be determined by using a yield equal to 65 percent of the producer's T-yield for the annually planted crop; and
(2) The service fee or premium for the annual covered crop planted on native sod will be equal to 200 percent of the amount determined in § 1437.7, as applicable, but the premium will not exceed the maximum amount specified in § 1437.7(d)(2).
(e) If the producer's total native sod acreage that is tilled in a crop year is 5 acres or less, the approved yield, service fee, and premium provisions specified in paragraph (d) of this section will not apply.
(f) Wheat, barley, oats, or triticale crop acreage subject to an application for grazing payments under the program specified in part 1421, subpart D of this chapter, or successor program, is ineligible for NAP payments.
[67 FR 12448, Mar. 19, 2002, as amended at 67 FR 62324, Oct. 7, 2002; 71 FR 13742, Mar. 17, 2006; 78 FR 21018, Apr. 9, 2013; 79 FR 74573, 74583, Dec. 15, 2014; 85 FR 12218, Mar. 2, 2020]
§ 1437.5
Coverage levels.
(a) NAP coverage for prevented planting is provided for approved prevented planting of an eligible NAP covered crop due to an eligible cause of loss in the coverage period. Payment is based on the approved prevented planted acreage in excess of 35 percent of the total intended acres to be planted.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, NAP coverage is equal to 50 percent of the yield or inventory value specified in paragraph (c) of this section at 55 percent of the average market price established by FSA.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, to be eligible for a NAP payment a producer must have suffered a yield or inventory value loss greater than 50 percent as the result of an eligible cause of loss in the coverage period as follows:
(1) For yield-based crops, a yield loss in excess of 50 percent of the approved yield;
(2) For value loss crops, a loss of value in excess of 50 percent of the total value of eligible inventory at the time of disaster;
(d) Subject to paragraph (e) of this section, producers of eligible NAP crops, other than crops and grasses intended for grazing, may elect buy-up coverage at 100 percent of the average market price in amounts of 50 percent to 65 percent, in 5 percent increments, of:
(1) For yield-based crops, the approved yield; and
(2) For value loss crops, the lesser of the total value of eligible inventory at the time of disaster or the maximum dollar value for coverage sought.
(e) A producer cannot obtain buy-up coverage for a crop if the producer has not successfully produced the crop in a previous year for which documentation exists and that documentation shows that the crop can be successfully grown by the producer in the county. Production of the crop is considered to be successful if the producer produced at least 50 percent of the county expected yield for the same county for which buy-up coverage is sought, unless the producer suffered a loss on the crop due to an eligible cause of loss in § 1437.10. If not already provided to FSA for any reason including NAP coverage or assistance, the producer must submit documentation showing successful growing of the crop in a previous year and, in the event a loss due to an eligible cause of loss was sustained, submit documentation of that loss satisfying the requirements of § 1437.11.
(f) The quantity or value of any eligible NAP crop will not be reduced for any quality consideration unless a zero value is established based on a total loss of quality, except as specified in § 1437.105.
(g) For crop acreage intended to be grazed, to be eligible for a NAP payment, a producer must have suffered a loss of AUD in excess of 50 percent of expected AUD determined on the basis of acreage, carrying capacity, and grazing period.
[79 FR 74574, Dec. 15, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 12219, Mar. 2, 2020]
§ 1437.6
Coverage period.
(a)
Coverage period.
The coverage period is the time during which coverage is available against prevented planting,
a loss of production, or loss of value, as applicable, of the eligible crop as a result of an eligible cause of loss specified in § 1437.10. Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, coverage periods start no earlier than 1 calendar day after date of filing of a valid application for coverage as specified in § 1437.7.
(1) If an application for coverage is filed within 30 calendar days of the end of a coverage period, the application for coverage is invalid and will not be processed by FSA. In the event the application for coverage is invalid as discussed in this paragraph, service fees will not be refunded.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, coverage is never retroactive.
(b)
Annual crops.
Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, the coverage period for annual crops, including annual forage crops,
(1) Begins the later of:
(i) 1 calendar day after the date the application for coverage is filed; or
(ii) The date the crop is planted, not to exceed the late planting period; and
(2) Ends on the earlier of:
(i) The date harvest is complete;
(ii) The normal harvest date of the crop in the area;
(iii) The date the crop is abandoned; or
(iv) The date the crop is destroyed.
(c)
Biennial and perennial crops.
Except as otherwise specified in this part, the coverage period for biennial and perennial crops begins the later of 1 calendar day after the date the application for coverage is filed or 1 calendar day after the application closing date. The coverage ends as determined by FSA.
(d)
Value loss crops.
Except as otherwise specified in this part, the coverage period for value loss crops, including ornamental nursery, aquaculture, Christmas tree crops, ginseng, and turfgrass sod; and other eligible crops, including floriculture and mushrooms begins the later of 1 calendar day after the date the application for coverage is filed or 1 calendar day after the application closing date. The coverage ends the last day of the crop year, as determined by FSA.
(e)
Honey.
Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, the coverage period for honey begins the later of 1 calendar day after the date of the application for coverage is filed; 1 calendar day after the application closing date; or the date the colonies are set in place for honey production. The coverage ends the last day of the crop year.
(f)
Maple sap.
Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, the coverage period for maple sap begins the later of 1 calendar day after the date the application for coverage is filed or 1 calendar day after the application closing date. The coverage ends on the earlier of the date harvest is complete; or the normal harvest date.
(g)
Biennial and perennial forage crops.
Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, for biennial and perennial forage crops the coverage period begins the later of 1 calendar day after the date the application for coverage is filed or 1 calendar day after the application closing date; for first year seedings, the date the crop was planted; or the date following the normal harvest date. The coverage ends on the normal harvest date of the subsequent year.
(h)
2019 and 2020 crop years.
For the 2019 and 2020 crop years only, if a crop's application closing date is before April 8, 2019, the coverage period of the crop will be as specified in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section except that the date coverage begins will be retroactive as long as the application for coverage is filed by the application closing date as specified in § 1437.7(i). This limited retroactive coverage for the 2019 and 2020 crop years only will begin 1 calendar day after the established application closing date, which would be the same as if they had filed by the deadlines as specified in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section.
[79 FR 74574, Dec. 15, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 12219, Mar. 2, 2020; 88 FR 1891, Jan. 11, 2023]
§ 1437.7
Application for coverage, service fee, premium, transfers of coverage, and acreage report.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, with respect to each crop, commodity, or acreage, producers
must file an application for coverage under this part by the application closing date.
(b) The service fee or certification of eligibility for a service fee waiver specified in paragraph (g) of this section must accompany the application for coverage in order for it to be considered filed. The service fee is:
(1) For applications filed by April 7, 2019, $250 per crop per administrative county, up to $750 per producer per administrative county, not to exceed $1,875 per producer; and
(2) For applications filed on or after April 8, 2019, $325 per crop per administrative county, up to $825 per producer per administrative county, not to exceed $1,950 per producer.
(c) The service fee will be applied per administrative county by crop and by planting period, as determined by FSA.
(d) Producers who elect buy-up coverage must pay a premium, in addition to the service fee, equal to the lesser of:
(1) The product obtained by multiplying:
(i) A 5.25-percent premium fee; and
(ii) The applicable payment limit; or
(2) The sum of the premiums for each eligible crop, with the premium for each eligible crop obtained by multiplying:
(i) The producer's share of the eligible crop;
(ii) The number of acres devoted to the eligible crop;
(iii) The approved yield;
(iv) The coverage level elected by the producer;
(v) The average market price; and
(vi) A 5.25-percent premium fee.
(e) For value loss crops, premiums will be equal to the lesser of:
(1) The product obtained by multiplying:
(i) A 5.25-percent premium fee; and
(ii) The applicable payment limit; or
(2) The sum of the premiums for each eligible crop, with the premium for each eligible crop obtained by multiplying:
(i) The maximum dollar value for which coverage is sought by the applicant;
(ii) The coverage level elected by the producer; and
(iii) A 5.25-percent premium fee.
(f) Premiums will be calculated separately for each crop, type, and intended use as reported on the acreage report and as specified in the basic provisions.
(g) Beginning farmers and ranchers, limited resource farmers and ranchers, socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers, and veteran farmers and ranchers will receive, upon certification, a waiver of the service fee and a 50 percent premium reduction for any buy-up coverage elected. The certification is required on or before the time the application for coverage is filed using the form specified by FSA.
(h) Transfers of NAP coverage are governed by the basic provisions.
(i) For the 2019 and 2020 crop years, if a crop's application closing date is before April 8, 2019, FSA will accept applications for coverage without regard to whether or not the application for coverage was filed by the crop's application closing date, provided that the application for coverage includes buy-up coverage according to § 1437.5(d) and is filed by May 24, 2019. Except as specifically stated in this rule, the provisions of this paragraph do not apply to crops having an application closing date established on or after April 8, 2019, or to applications for coverage that do not include buy-up coverage as an option selected by the applicant. The coverage period for applications for coverage filed according to this paragraph will be as specified in § 1437.6.
(j) An accurate acreage report must be filed for each crop included on an application for coverage by the earliest of:
(1) The acreage reporting date for the crop announced by FSA;
(2) 15 calendar days before the onset of harvest or grazing of the crop acreage being reported; or
(3) The established normal harvest date for the end of the coverage period.
(k) Applications for coverage for hemp are governed by this part.
(l) Applications for coverage that were filed with FSA for all crops other than hemp that were covered under the
regulations in effect at the time of filing and which meet all the other requirements of this section will be recognized by FSA.
[79 FR 74575, Dec. 15, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 12219, Mar. 2, 2020; 88 FR 1892, Jan. 11, 2023]
§ 1437.8
Records.
(a) Producers must maintain accurate records of crop acreage, acreage yields, and production for the crop for which an application for coverage is filed in accordance with § 1437.7. For those crops or commodities for which it is impractical, as determined by FSA, to maintain crop acreage, yields, or production data, producers must maintain records, in addition to the available records required by this section, as may be required in subparts C, D, and E of this part. Producers must retain records of the production and acreage yield for a minimum of 3 years for each crop for which an application for coverage is filed in accordance with § 1437.7. Producers may be selected and be required to provide records acceptable to FSA to support any certification provided. For each harvested crop for which producers file an application for payment in accordance with § 1437.11, producers must provide documentary evidence acceptable to FSA of production and the date harvest was completed, including production of crops planted after the planting period or late planting period. Such documentary evidence must be provided no later than the acreage reporting date for the crop in the subsequent crop year or, for crops with a coverage period of more than 12 months, no later than 60 days after the normal harvest date. Records of a previous crop year's production for inclusion in the actual production history database used to calculate an approved yield for the current crop year must be certified by the producer no later than the acreage reporting date for the crop in the current crop year. Production data provided after the acreage reporting date in the current crop year for the crop may be included in the actual production history data base for the calculation of subsequent approved yield calculations if accompanied by acceptable records of production as determined by FSA. Certifications must be accompanied by a record of production; records of production acceptable to FSA may include:
(1) Commercial receipts, settlement sheets, warehouse ledger sheets, or load summaries if the eligible crop was sold or otherwise disposed of through commercial channels provided the records are reliable or verifiable as determined by FSA; and
(2) Such documentary evidence such as contemporaneous measurements, truck scale tickets, and contemporaneous diaries, as is necessary in order to verify the information provided if the eligible crop has been fed to livestock, or otherwise disposed of other than through commercial channels, provided the records are reliable or verifiable as determined by FSA.
(3) For quality losses specified in § 1437.105, verifiable records substantiating a quality loss due to an eligible cause of loss in the coverage period. The record submitted must come from tests or analysis substantiating that the loss of quality occurred from an eligible cause of loss during the coverage period. FSA will disapprove quality adjustments under § 1437.105 if FSA determines the evidence does not substantiate a loss of quality occurred due to an eligible cause of loss in the coverage period. For example, if FSA determines the tests or analysis of the specific crop's production were taken too late to determine if the measured loss of quality occurred from an eligible cause of loss in the coverage period (regardless whether a loss of quality was in fact measured or determined), no quality loss adjustment will be made or permitted. There is no presumption that a measured loss of quality occurred due to an eligible cause of loss in the coverage period. It is a NAP covered producer's burden to present evidence, satisfactory to FSA, substantiating that the alleged quality loss occurred to the NAP covered crop in the coverage period.
(b) During any crop year that a notice of loss is filed according to this part:
(1) Producers of hand-harvested or rapidly deteriorating crops, as determined by the Deputy Administrator,
must, in addition to providing acceptable production records according to this part, notify the administrative county office that harvest is complete. This notification must be made within 72 hours of when harvest is complete. If an appraisal of the crop acreage is requested by the producer or determined necessary by FSA, the producer must not destroy the crop residue until the crop acreage is released by an FCIC- or FSA-qualified loss adjustor. Producers may, at their expense, request that an appraisal by certified FCIC or FSA loss adjusters of acreage of hand-harvested or rapidly deteriorating crops be completed during non-loss crop years in order to maintain accurate actual production history.
(2) Producers must not allow the gathering (gleaning) of any produce left in the field following normal harvest of the crop acreage until the crop acreage is released by a qualified FSA or FCIC loss adjustor, as determined by FSA. Except, crop acreage may be released by an authorized FSA representative for acceptable gleaning operations, as determined by FSA, when producers and gleaners agree to provide acceptable records, as determined by FSA, of the quantity of the crop gleaned.
(c) Producers must provide acceptable evidence, as determined by FSA, of:
(1) An interest in the commodity produced or control of the crop acreage on which the commodity was grown at the time of disaster;
(2) The authority of the applicable individual to execute program documents;
(3) The producer's risk in the crop; and
(4) The producer's ability and intent to harvest, transport, and market the crop's expected production determined by using the approved yield or inventory of the crop or commodity.
(d) Reports of acreage planted or intended but prevented from being planted must be provided to FSA at the administrative county office for the acreage no later than the date specified by FSA for each crop and location. Reports of acreage filed beyond the date specified by FSA for the crop and location may, however, be processed and used for determining acres devoted to the eligible crop if all the provisions of 7 CFR part 718 are met. In the case of a crop-share arrangement, all producers will be bound by the acreage report filed by the landowner or operator unless the producer files a separate acreage report by the date specified by FSA for the crop and location. Reports of acreage planted or intended and prevented from being planted must include all of the following information:
(1) Number of acres of the eligible crop in the administrative county (for each planting in the event of multiple planting) in which the producer has a share;
(2) Zero acres planted when the producer's crop for which an application for coverage was filed, is not planted;
(3) The producer's share of the eligible crop at the time an application for coverage was filed;
(4) The FSA farm serial number;
(5) The identity of the crop, practices, intended uses, and for forage crops, the predominant species or type and variety of the vegetation;
(6) For organic crops with an average market price established under § 1437.12(b), the identity of the crop planted on:
(i) Acreage using conventional farming practices;
(ii) Certified organic acreage;
(iii) Transitional acreage being converted to certified organic acreage;
(iv) Buffer zone acreage;
(7) The identity of all producers sharing in the crop;
(8) The date the crop was planted or planting was completed, including the age of the perennial crops; and
(9) The acreage intended but prevented from being planted.
(e) Producers receiving a guaranteed payment for planted acreage, as opposed to receiving a payment only upon delivery of the production must provide documentation of any written or verbal contract or arrangement with the buyer to FSA. Net production, as determined by FSA, may be adjusted upward by the amount of production corresponding to the amount of the contract payment received.
(f) Producers must provide documentation of any salvage value received by or made available for the
quantity of the crop or commodity that cannot be marketed or sold in any market, as determined by FSA and any value received by or made available for a secondary use of the crop or commodity.
(g) Producers requesting payment under this part must maintain records which substantiate gross revenue for the tax year preceding the crop year for which coverage is requested.
(h) Producers requesting a waiver of service fees as a limited resource producer must maintain records which substantiate annual gross income for the two tax years preceding the crop year for which coverage is requested.
(i) Producers requesting payment under this part for a crop grown on certified organic acreage for which a price and T-yield are established, as provided in §§ 1437.12(b) and 1437.102, must provide, no later than the acreage reporting date specified by FSA for the crop and location:
(1) A written certification in effect from a certifying agency indicating the name of the entity certified, effective date of certification, certificate number, types of commodities certified, and name and address of the certifying agent (a certificate issued to a tenant may be used to qualify a landlord or other similar arrangement); and
(2) Records from the certifying agent showing the specific location of certified organic, transitional, and buffer zone acreage, and acreage not subject to organic farming practices according to an organic system plan.
(j) Producers providing reports of acreage that include transitional acreage being converted to certified organic acreage in accordance with an organic system plan must provide, no later than the acreage reporting date specified by FSA for the crop and location:
(1) Written documentation from a certifying agent indicating an organic system plan is in effect for the acreage; and
(2) Records from the certifying agent showing the specific location of certified organic, transitional, and buffer zone acreage, and acreage not subject to organic farming practices according to an organic system plan.
(k) Producers who are exempt from National Organic certification requirements, as specified in § 205.101 of this title, and are requesting payment under this part for a crop grown on organic acreage for which a price and T-yield is established, as provided in §§ 1437.12(b) and 1437.102, must provide, no later than the acreage reporting date specified by FSA for the crop and location, a copy of their organic system plan, which must be developed with an organic certifying agent.
[67 FR 12448, Mar. 19, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 13742, Mar. 17, 2006. Redesignated and amended at 79 FR 74574, 74575, 74583, Dec. 15, 2014; 85 FR 12220, Mar. 2, 2020; 85 FR 16232, Mar. 23, 2020]
§ 1437.9
Unit definition.
(a) The unit identifies the interest of the producer in the administrative county on the basis of the unique relationship of the owner to one or more operators. The unit is the foundation for all determinations of acreage, production, value, AUD, approved yields, requisite losses, payments, and other program requirements.
(b) Separate and distinct units are:
(1) One-hundred percent interest as owner/operator;
(2) Less than one-hundred percent interest as owner or operator; or
(3) Less than one-hundred percent interest, as owner or operator in an inverse relationship.
[71 FR 13743, Mar. 17, 2006. Redesignated at 79 FR 74574, Dec. 15, 2014]
§ 1437.10
Causes of loss.
(a) To qualify for assistance, production losses or prevented planting must occur as a result of an eligible cause of loss during the coverage period. Not all causes of loss are eligible causes of loss for all crops or all commodities.
(b) An eligible cause of loss is:
(1) Damaging weather, including, but not limited to:
(i) Drought;
(ii) Hail;
(iii) Excessive moisture;
(iv) Freeze;
(v) Tornado;
(vi) Hurricane;
(vii) Excessive wind;
(viii) Lightning;
(ix) Insufficient chill hours, but only for specific crops and locations for which FSA has determined in advance of a coverage period, based on FSA's review of sufficient scientific evidence that a requisite amount of chill hours is required for the crop to produce and a lack of chill hours is adverse to the crop's production without any regard to any management. In this context, “without regard to any management” means if a crop's inability to produce due to lack of chill hours can be mitigated by any managerial practices, application of chemical, or other management intervention, the lack of chill hours will not be included as an eligible cause of loss for the crop, In cases where FSA makes the decision to include insufficient chill hours as a cause of loss by itself for a crop and location, the crop and location and subsequent crop year coverage period for which the decision will apply will be specified in a list maintained by FSA. If the crop and location is not on that list, then insufficient chill hours can only be an eligible cause of loss if the insufficient chill hours were related to a damaging weather event or an adverse natural occurrence included in paragraphs (b)(1) or (2) of this section; or
(x) Any combination of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section;
(2) Adverse natural occurrence, including, but not limited to:
(i) Earthquake;
(ii) Flood; or
(iii) Volcanic eruption; or
(3) A condition related to an eligible cause of loss in paragraphs (b)(1) or (2) of this section (in this context, the related condition must result from the damaging weather or adverse natural occurrence; it is not eligible if it occurs on its own) including, but not limited to:
(i) Heat;
(ii) Insect infestation;
(iii) Disease;
(iv) Insufficient chill hours;
(v) Wildfire; or
(vi) Any combination thereof.
(c) The damaging weather, adverse natural occurrence, or related condition as specified in paragraph (b) of this section must occur in the coverage period before or during harvest and directly cause, accelerate, or exacerbate destruction or deterioration of the eligible crop as determined by the county committee.
(d) NAP coverage is provided against only eligible causes of loss. All specified causes of loss must be due to a naturally occurring event during the coverage period. All other causes of loss, including, but not limited to, the following, are not covered:
(1) Negligence, mismanagement, or wrongdoing by the NAP covered producer or anyone else;
(2) Failure to follow recognized good farming practices for the eligible crop;
(3) Water contained or released by any governmental, public, or private dam or reservoir project, if an easement exists on the acreage affected for the containment or release of the water;
(4) Failure or breakdown of the irrigation equipment facilities, unless the failure or breakdown is due to an eligible cause of loss. If damage is due to an eligible cause of loss, the producer must make all reasonable efforts to restore the equipment or facilities to proper working order within a reasonable amount of time unless FSA determines it is not practical to do so. Cost will not be considered when determining whether it is practical to restore the equipment or facilities;
(5) Failure to carry out a good irrigation practice for the covered crop, if applicable;
(6) Any cause of loss that results in damage that is not evident or would not have been evident during the NAP coverage period. Even though FSA may not inspect the damaged crop until after the end of the NAP coverage period, only damage due to eligible causes that would have been evident during the NAP coverage period will be covered;
(7) Except for lack of chill hours as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(viii) of this section, normal variance of temperatures from average normal temperatures including, but not limited to, cyclic yield variations that occur for a crop that are not causes of loss included in paragraphs (b)(1) or (2) of this section;
(8) Any managerial decision to attempt to grow or produce a crop in an area that is not suited for successful
commercial production of the eligible NAP crop as determined by FSA;
(9) Failure of the producer to reseed to the same crop during the same planting period in those areas and under such circumstances where it is customary to do so;
(10) Except for tree crops and perennials and as provided for in § 1437.201, inadequate irrigation resources at time of planting;
(11) Except as specified in § 1437.303, a loss of inventory or yield of aquaculture (including ornamental fish), floriculture, or ornamental nursery stemming from drought or any failure to provide water, soil, or growing media to such crop for any reason;
(12) Any failure to provide a controlled environment or exercise good nursery practices when such controlled environment or practices are a condition of eligibility under this part;
(13) Except as provided for mollusks in § 1437.303, any alleged or actual loss of inventory or missing non-containerized inventory resulting from a managerial decision not to seed or raise the eligible NAP crop in containers, net pens, or wire baskets, on ropes, or using similar devices;
(14) For crops grown using organic farming practices, failure to comply with organic standards;
(15) Contamination by application or drift of prohibited substances onto land on which crops are grown using organic farming practices;
(16) Weeds; or
(17) Failure to harvest or market the crop due to lack of a sufficient plan or resources.
(e) The lack of an eligible cause of loss during a coverage period is not a compliance matter or issue. NAP will not provide assistance for crops that do not suffer from an eligible cause of loss during a coverage period. The relief provisions of these regulations and of 7 CFR part 718 cannot be used to pay producers of crops that did not suffer from an eligible cause of loss during the coverage period.
[79 FR 74576, Dec. 15, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 12220, Mar, 2, 2020]

# Editorial Note:
At 85 FR 12220, Mar. 2, 2020, § 1437.10 was amended; however, the amendment in paragraph (b)(1)(ix) could not be incorporated due to inaccurate amendatory instruction.
§ 1437.11
Notice of loss, appraisal requirements, and application for payment.
(a) In addition to the written notice of loss requirements specified for all crops in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, for hand-harvested or rapidly deteriorating crops and for other crops determined by FSA, at least one producer having a share in the unit must notify FSA of the damage or loss through the administrative county office for the unit within 72 hours of the date damage or loss on the unit first becomes apparent. Notification required under this paragraph may be via telephone to the administrative county office during business hours or via written notice on a form prescribed by FSA as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) Unless written notice for hand-harvested or rapidly deteriorating crops has already been provided within 72 hours of date of damage or loss as specified in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section, in case of damage to any NAP covered crop, at least one producer having a share in the unit must file a notice of loss in the administrative county office:
(1) For prevented planting claims, within 15 days after the final planting date;
(2) For low yield claims and value loss claims, the earlier of:
(i) 15 days after the disaster occurrence or date of loss or damage to the crop first becomes apparent; or
(ii) 15 days after the normal harvest date.
(c) The notice of loss specified in paragraph (b) of this section must be for each crop and be in writing on a form prescribed by FSA and include:
(1) The alleged cause of crop damage;
(2) Date the disaster occurred and when the damage or loss first became apparent;
(3) A copy of the contract or agreement if a contract or agreement of a guaranteed payment for planted acreage exists;
(4) The type of loss that occurred, for example, prevented planting or low yield;
(5) Practices used, for example, irrigated or non-irrigated;
(6) For prevented planting:
(i) Total intended planted acreage of the crop on the unit;
(ii) Total acreage of the crop planted on the unit;
(iii) Whether seed, chemicals, fertilizer, etc. was purchased, delivered, or an arrangement for purchase or delivery was made for the intended to be planted crop;
(iv) What and when land preparation measures were completed, and
(v) What has been done or will be done with the acreage, for example, abandoned, replanted, etc.;
(7) For low yield:
(i) Total acreage devoted to the crop in the unit;
(ii) Total acreage of the crop affected;
(iii) What and when land preparation measures and practices were completed before and after the loss; and
(iv) What will be done with the affected crop acreage, for example, harvested, destroyed, replanted to a different crop, abandoned, etc.; and
(8) Any other information requested by an FSA authorized representative.
(d) Producers who file a notice of loss, using the appropriate FSA form, for crop acreage that will not be harvested as intended, such as abandoned, put to another use, replanted to the same or a different crop, or in the case of forage, acreage intended to be mechanically harvested that will be both mechanically harvested and grazed, must:
(1) Not put the crop to another use or prepare the acreage for replanting or otherwise change any conditions of the crop or acreage until written notification of release of the crop or acreage is received from FSA;
(2) Request, using the appropriate FSA form, an appraisal of the un-harvested acreage for potential production and release of the crop or acreage:
(i) No less than 15 calendar days before replanting or in the case of forage intended to be mechanically harvested, grazing of the crop acreage.
(ii) Within 72 hours after the acreage is abandoned for hand-harvested or rapidly deteriorating crops, or within 15 calendar days after the acreage is abandoned for all other crops;
(iii) No later than the normal harvest date of the crop, as determined by FSA.
(3) Request the loss adjustor on the day the initial appraisal is completed, or request in any manner of written correspondence received in the administrative county office no later than 15 calendar days after the request for initial appraisal is submitted, that the appraisal be deferred until the end of the growing season, the producer be permitted to establish representative sample areas according to paragraph (d)(4) of this section, and that the acreage be released immediately when:
(i) Time is critical for replanting, or other urgent reasons; and
(ii) Producers and loss adjustors cannot resolve disagreement with the initial appraisal of the acreage to be released.
(4) Establish representative sample areas of the acreage according to the loss adjustor's instructions received on the day the initial appraisal is completed or, if the loss adjustor is not available, according to the FCIC Loss Adjustment Manual (LAM) and applicable FCIC crop handbooks. Report the size, number, and location of the areas in any manner of written correspondence received in the administrative county office, no later than 15 calendar days after requesting a deferred appraisal and before the acreage is put to another use or replanted. Representative sample areas must be of adequate construction and numbers to provide acceptable sampling results and maintained in sound condition, as determined by FSA, until released by FSA.
(5) If possible, be present for the appraisal involving un-harvested crop acreage and accept or contest the results of the loss adjustor's appraisal. Producers unable to be present for the appraisal may contest the results of the appraisal in the administrative county office.
(e) Crop acreage for which an application for coverage has been filed, that is intended for production of forage seed and for which a notice of loss is filed indicating the crop acreage will not be harvested as seed, will be appraised for
potential production of seed when producers provide FSA acceptable evidence of a contract to produce seed for the current crop year or acceptable records of acreage and seed production for three or more of the last 5 consecutive crop years, as determined by FSA.
(f) Forage acreage for which a notice of loss is filed and:
(1) Catastrophic coverage was obtained for forage intended to be grazed will have NAP benefits calculated based on § 1437.401(f);
(2) Catastrophic coverage was obtained for forage that was intended to be mechanical harvested but will be grazed and not mechanical harvested;
(i) Must have an appraisal and release for the unit to have NAP benefits calculated based on mechanical harvested forage; or
(ii) For which an appraisal or release was not obtained, will have a loss calculated as specified in § 1437.401(f).
(3) Buy-up coverage was obtained for forage intended to be mechanically harvested but will be grazed and not mechanically harvested:
(i) Must have an appraisal and release in order for the unit to have NAP benefits calculated based on the loss of expected mechanically harvested forage; or
(ii) For which an appraisal or release was not obtained is ineligible for payment consideration and will have the unit guarantee assigned to the forage crop acreage.
(g) Producers must file an application for payment on a form specified by FSA to apply for NAP payments within 60 days of the last day of coverage for the crop year for any NAP covered crop in the unit.
(h) A notice of loss under paragraph (a) of this section filed beyond the time specified in this section or notification provided under paragraph (b) of this section may satisfy the requirements of these provisions, if, at the discretion of FSA, the notice is filed at such time that permits:
(1) An authorized FSA representative to verify information on the notice of loss by inspecting the affected acreage or the crop or commodity involved; and
(2) The county committee or an authorized FSA representative the opportunity to determine that eligible disaster conditions caused the damage or loss.
[67 FR 12448, Mar. 19, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 13743, Mar. 17, 2006. Redesignated and amended at 79 FR 74574, 74577, 74583, Dec. 15, 2014; 85 FR 12220, Mar. 2, 2020]
§ 1437.12
Average market price and payment factors.
(a) An average market price will be used to calculate assistance under this part and will be:
(1) A dollar value per the applicable unit of measure of the eligible crop;
(2) Determined on a harvested basis without the inclusion of transportation, storage, processing, marketing, or other post-harvest expenses, as determined by FSA;
(3) Comparable with established FCIC prices; and
(4) Determined, as practicable, for each intended use of a crop type within a State, as determined by FSA, for a crop year.
(b) For each crop and location (State or county or other location as determined appropriate by FSA), FSA will establish an average market price using the following method:
(1) Obtaining market prices for each crop for the 5 consecutive crop years beginning with the most recent year for which price data is available; then
(2) Dropping the crop years in the 5 consecutive crop years with the highest and lowest prices; and then
(3) Averaging the prices for the remaining 3 crop years in the 5 consecutive crop years; and
(4) If 5 crop years of data is not available for determining the average market price, FSA will use the best data available, as determined by FSA, for as many crop years of average market price data as possible within the 5 consecutive crop years beginning with the most recent year for which price data is available and determine an average market price for the crop by computing a simple average of the prices for those years.
(c) FSA will disregard small differences in prices for a crop based on different types or varieties or various intended uses. If FSA determines there is a significant amount of production being marketed in a location or region at significantly different prices, FSA
will determine whether or not to establish different average market prices for subsequent crop years.
(d) Separate average market prices may be established within a State based on conventional or organic practices or the intended market, as determined by FSA.
(e) For these purposes, where needed, an Animal-unit-days (AUD) value will be based on the national average price of corn and the daily requirement of 13.6 megacalories of net energy for maintenance of 1 animal unit.
(f) Payment factors will be used to calculate assistance for crops produced with significant and variable harvesting expenses that are not incurred because the crop acreage was prevented planted, or planted but not harvested, as determined by FSA. The imposition of payment factors is based on the acre status and disposition not whether a NAP participant actually incurs or does not incur expenses.
(g) The average market price used to determine the amount of NAP assistance for crop acreage reported with a specific intended use will be based on the smaller of the approved average market price established for either the specific intended use reported on the acreage report or actual market or actual use for which more than 50 percent of the acreage's harvested production is marketed. For example: A producer reports 50 acres of carrots intended for fresh market and the producer suffers a 70 percent loss of production on the acreage. Additionally, more than 50 percent of the carrots actually produced from the 50 acres are sold as processed carrots. Because the established average market price for processed carrots is less than fresh carrots and more than 50 percent of the harvested crop was marketed as processed carrots, the established average market price for processed carrots will be used to compute the producer's NAP assistance. If an average market price had not been established for processed carrots in this example before the coverage period, then the average market price for fresh carrots would be used.
(1) The provisions of this paragraph do not apply to secondary use, peanuts, seed intended uses, and small grain intended for use as forage.
(2) [Reserved]
(h) For crops with an established yield and market price for multiple intended uses, the average market price will be as provided in paragraph (g) of this section except that for producers who choose buy-up coverage under § 1437.5(d), the average market price used to determine assistance may be based on historical production and acreage evidence provided by the participant. The evidence of actual final use of historical production must come from the 3 previous crop years immediately preceding the coverage year. Only years in which the producer had acreage and production harvested will be counted. In other words, if a producer only marketed a crop in 1 previous year, FSA will review the evidence of final use in that year and based on the evidence for that year, determine a percent of production attributable to each use. Based on that determined percentage, an appropriate average market price and use will be calculated and determined, respectively. If more than 1 and up to 3 years of final use evidence are available, FSA will count all years and production and determine the average. If a producer had crop acreage and evidence of final use for any year in the 3-year period, but the producer does not submit evidence for any other year in the 3-year period for which the producer also had acreage, the average market price will be as provided in paragraph (g) of this section.
(i) A final payment price will be determined by multiplying, as appropriate, the average market price determined in this section by the applicable payment factor (that is, harvested, unharvested, or prevented planting).
[67 FR 12448, Mar. 19, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 13744, Mar. 17, 2006. Redesignated and amended at 79 FR 74574, 74578, 74583, Dec. 15, 2014; 85 FR 12220, Mar. 2, 2020]
§ 1437.13
Crop definition.
(a) For the purpose of providing benefits under this part, FSA will, at its discretion, define crops as specified in this section.
(b) FSA may separate or combine types and varieties as a crop when specific credible information as determined by FSA is provided showing the
crop of a specific type or variety has a significantly different or similar value when compared to other types or varieties, as determined by FSA.
(c) FSA may recognize two or more different crops planted on the same acreage intended for harvest during the same crop year as two or more separate crops. The crop acreage may include a crop intended for harvest before planting of a succeeding crop or a succeeding crop interseeded with the preceding crop prior to intended harvest of the preceding crop. The acreage must be in an area where the practice is recognized as a good farming practice, as determined by FSA, and all crops are recognized by FSA as able to achieve the expected yield, as determined by FSA.
(d) FSA may consider crop acreage that is harvested more than once during the same crop year from the same plant as a single crop. The acreage must be in an area where the practice is recognized as a good farming practice, as determined by FSA.
(e) FSA may consider each planting period of multiple planted acreage as a separate crop. The acreage must be in an area where the practice is recognized as a good farming practice, as determined by FSA.
(f) FSA may define forage as separate crops according to the intended method of harvest, either mechanical harvest or grazed.
(g) Forage acreage intended to be grazed may be further defined as warm and cool season forage crops.
(h) Forage acreage intended to be mechanically harvested may be defined as a separate crop from grazed forage and may be separated based upon the commodity used as forage, to the extent such separation is allowed under paragraph (b) of this section.
(i) Crop acreage intended for the production of seed may be considered a separate crop from other intended uses, as determined by FSA, if all the following criteria apply:
(1) The specific crop acreage is seeded, or intended to be seeded, with an intent of producing commercial seed as its primary intended use;
(2) There is no possibility of other commercial uses of production from the same crop without regard to market conditions; and
(3) The growing period of the specific crop acreage is uniquely conducive to the production of commercial seed and not conducive to the production of any other intended use of the crop, (e.g. vernalization in a biennial crop such as carrots and onions) and that accommodation renders the possibility of production for any other intended use of the crop improbable.
[67 FR 12448, Mar. 19, 2002. Redesignated and amended at 79 FR 74574, 74583, Dec. 15, 2014]
§ 1437.14
Multiple benefits.
(a) If a producer is eligible to receive payments under this part and benefits under any other program administered by the Secretary for the same crop loss, the producer must choose whether to receive the other program benefits or payments under this part, but will not be eligible for both. The limitation on multiple benefits prohibits a producer from being compensated more than once for the same loss.
(b) The limitation on multiple benefits specified in paragraph (a) of this section will not apply to:
(1) Emergency Loans made under subtitle C of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1961-1970).
(2) Livestock Forage Disaster Program (LFP) payments as specified in part 1416 of this chapter,
(3) Tree Assistance Program (TAP) payments as specified in part 1416 of this chapter, or
(4) Emergency Assistance for Livestock, Honeybees, and Farm-Raised Fish Program (ELAP) payments as specified in part 1416 of this chapter.
(c) The restriction on multiple benefits does not relieve the producer from the requirements of making a production and acreage report.
(d) If the other USDA program benefits are not available until after an application for benefits has been filed under this part, the producer may, to avoid this restriction on such other benefits, refund the total amount of the payment to the administrative
county office from which the payment was received.
[67 FR 12448, Mar. 19, 2002, as amended at 78 FR 21018, Apr. 9, 2013. Redesignated and amended at 79 FR 74574, 74579 Dec. 15, 2014]
§ 1437.15
Payment and income limitations.
(a) The provisions of part 1400 of this title apply to NAP.
(b) CCC will pay, for up to one year, simple interest on payments to producers which are delayed. Interest will be paid on the net amount ultimately found to be due, and will begin accruing on the 31st day after the date the producer signs, dates, and submits a properly completed application for payment on the designated form, or the 31st day after a disputed application is adjudicated. Interest will be paid unless the reason for failure to timely pay is due to the producer's failure to provide information or other material necessary for the computation of payment, or there was a genuine dispute concerning eligibility for payment.
[67 FR 12448, Mar. 19, 2002, as amended at 78 FR 21019, Apr. 9, 2013. Redesignated and amended at 79 FR 74574, 74579, Dec. 15, 2014]
§ 1437.16
Miscellaneous provisions.
(a) To be eligible for benefits under this part, producers must be in compliance with the highly erodible land and wetlands provisions of part 12 of this title.
(b) The provisions of § 718.11 of this title, providing for ineligibility for benefits for offenses involving controlled substances, apply.
(c) A person is ineligible to receive assistance under this part for the crop year plus two subsequent crop years if it is determined by the State or county committee or an official of FSA that such person has:
(1) Adopted any scheme or other device that tends to defeat the purpose of a program operated under this part;
(2) Made any fraudulent representation with respect to such program; or
(3) Misrepresented any fact affecting a program determination.
(d) All amounts paid by FSA to any such producer, applicable to the crop year in which a violation of this part occurs, must be refunded to FSA together with interest and other amounts as determined appropriate to the circumstances by FSA. FSA may assess liquidated damages of 10 percent of the projected or received NAP payment for the crop or commodity in violation. Liquidated damages are in addition to any refund of program benefits and are not considered a penalty.
(e) All persons with a financial interest in the operation receiving benefits under this part are jointly and severally liable for any refund, including related charges, which is determined to be due FSA for any reason under this part.
(f) In the event that any request for assistance or payments under this part was established as result of erroneous information or a miscalculation, the assistance or payment will be recalculated and any excess refunded with applicable interest.
(g) The liability of any person for any penalty under this part is in addition to any other liability under any civil or criminal fraud statute or any other provision of law.
(h) The appeal regulations at parts 11 and 780 of this title apply to decisions made according to this part.
(i) Any payment or portion thereof to any person will be made without regard to questions of title under State law and without regard to any claim or lien against the crop, or proceeds thereof.
(j) For the purposes of 28 U.S.C. 3201(e), the Secretary waives the ineligibility to receive benefits under this program but only for beneficiaries who as a condition of such waiver agree to apply the benefits to reduce the amount of the judgment lien.
(k) The provisions of parts 1400, 1403 and 1404 of this chapter apply to NAP.
(l) In the case of death, incompetence or disappearance of any person who is eligible to receive payments under this part, such payments will be disbursed in accordance with part 707 of this title.
(m) Any person or legal entity who has a debt from nonpayment of the premium for coverage levels specified in § 1437.5(c) will be ineligible for assistance under any subsequent crop year NAP coverage on any crop from the crop year of nonpayment of premium until the debt is paid in full.
(1) If a person or legal entity is ineligible for NAP assistance due to the debt because of the nonpayment of premium, FSA will permit the person or legal entity to file an application for coverage together with payment of any service fees; however, that application and payment of service fees will not make the person or legal entity eligible for any assistance until the premium debt is paid in full.
(2) Service fees paid with applications for coverage that are filed by persons or legal entities who are ineligible for NAP assistance as specified in paragraph (m) of this section will not be credited to any unpaid premium debt nor are they refundable.
(n) A person or legal entity ineligible for NAP assistance under paragraph (m) of this section may become eligible for future NAP assistance if they remit all unpaid debt related to the nonpayment of premium before the application for payment filing deadline (see § 1437.11(g)).
(o) Any NAP payment that was not issued for a prior NAP crop year due to an outstanding debt as specified in paragraph (m) of this section will not be issued.
(p) Unpaid debt related to the failure to pay any premium satisfied by administrative offset will reinstate the eligibility of a person or legal entity from the date the offset satisfies all the unpaid premium debt with interest.
[67 FR 12448, Mar. 19, 2002. Redesignated and amended at 79 FR 74574, 74579, 74583, Dec. 15, 2014; 85 FR 12220, Mar. 2, 2020]
§ 1437.17
Matters of general applicability.
(a) The regulations in this part and FSA's interpretation of the regulations in this part, the basic provisions, and internal agency directives issued to FSA State and county offices are matters of general applicability and are not individually appealable in administrative appeals according to §§ 11.3 and 780.5 of this title. Additionally, the regulations in this part and any FSA decisions that are not based on specific facts derived from an individual participant's application, contract, or file are not appealable under parts 11 or 780 of this title. Examples of such decisions include how NAP is generally administered, signup deadlines, payment rates, or any other generally applicable matter or determination that is made by FSA for use in all similarly situated applications. The only extent to which the matters referenced in this section are reviewable administratively in an appeal forum is whether FSA's determination of facts incidental to the case and decision to apply the generally applicable matter is in conformance with the regulations in this part.
(b) The relief provisions of 7 CFR part 718 are applicable only to participant ineligibility and noncompliance decisions. The relief provisions cannot be used to extend a benefit or assistance not otherwise available under law or not otherwise available to others who have satisfied or complied with all the eligibility and compliance requirements of this part. Equitable relief provisions of part 718 of this title cannot be used to obtain a review of either these regulations, the requirements of this part, the agency's interpretations of this part, or compliance provisions of this part.
[79 FR 74579, Dec. 15, 2014]

# Subpart B—Determining Yield Coverage Using Actual Production History
§ 1437.101
Actual production history.
Actual production history (APH) is the unit's record of crop yield by crop year for the APH base period. The APH base period consists of ten crop years of actual yield, T-yield, assigned yield, and zero credited yield, immediately preceding the crop year for which an approved yield is calculated in accordance with this part. APH will be used, except as otherwise indicated in this part, as the basis for providing noninsured crop disaster assistance.
[71 FR 13744, Mar. 17, 2006]
§ 1437.102
Yield determinations.
(a) An actual yield is the total amount of harvested and appraised production from unit acreage for the crop year on a per-acre, or other basis, as applicable.
(b) A T-yield (county expected yield):
(1) Is the Olympic average (disregarding the high and low yields) of
historical yields of the crop in the county for the five consecutive crop years immediately preceding the previous crop year. For example, for the 2015 crop year, the five consecutive crop years immediately preceding the previous crop year would be 2009 through 2013.
(2) Will be the same as the FCIC transitional yield if crop insurance is available for the crop, (but not necessarily for the cause of loss if excluded by policy provisions), in the administrative county.
(3) Will be calculated so as to be comparable to the FCIC transitional yield most reasonable to the area if crop insurance was available for the crop (but not necessarily for the cause of loss) in contiguous counties, but not in the immediate county.
(4) Will be based on the most representative available historical information, as determined by FSA, from such sources as, but not limited to, actual acreage and production data of participating producers in the county; or in similar areas; National Agricultural Statistics Service data; National Institute of Food and Agriculture records, Federal Crop Insurance data, and credible non-government studies. Such data is based on the acreage intended for harvest.
(5) May be adjusted on an administrative county-wide basis for:
(i) Yield variations due to different farming practices in the administrative county such as irrigated and non-irrigated; and
(ii) Cultural practices when such practices in the administrative county are different from those used on acreage to establish the yield.
(6) Will be adjusted on a State-wide basis, for crops grown on certified organic and transitional acreage for which FSA has established a separate organic price as specified in § 1437.12(b), based on an average of FCIC organic yield reductions, as determined by FSA, for the same crop in the same State.
(7) May be adjusted on a county-wide or regional basis for crops grown on certified organic and transitional acreage for which FSA has established a separate organic price as specified in § 1437.12(b), based on the most representative available historical information, as determined by FSA.
(8) Will, for all land for those producers who have land physically located in multiple counties and administered in one county office, be based on the administrative county's expected yield for the crop.
(9) May be reduced, on a specific APH basis, when, as determined by FSA, it does not accurately reflect the productive capability of specific crop acreage.
(10) Will be used in the actual production history base period when less than four consecutive crop years of actual, assigned, or zero-credited yields, as applicable, are available.
(c) An assigned yield is:
(1) Equal to 75 percent of the approved yield calculated for the most recent crop year for which the producer did not certify a report of production in a crop year that is not a bypass year.
(2) Used, after the first crop year an approved yield for the crop is calculated, in the actual production history base period when the producer reports acreage for the crop but fails to certify a report of production in a crop year that is not a bypass year. Producers may have only one assigned yield in the actual production history base period.
(3) May be replaced with an actual yield when the producers provide a certification of production and acceptable production records for the applicable crop year in accordance with § 1437.8.
(4) May not be used if the acreage of a crop in the administrative county in which the unit is located for the crop year increases by more than 100 percent over any year in the preceding seven crop years, or significantly from the previous crop years, as determined by FSA, unless producers provide:
(i) Detailed documentation of production costs, acres planted, and yield for the crop year for which the producer is requesting assistance, or
(ii) If FSA determines the documentation is inadequate, proof that the eligible crop, had it been harvested, could have been marketed at a reasonable price.
(5) May be used, notwithstanding paragraph (c)(4) of this section, if:
(i) The planted acreage for the crop has been inspected by a third party acceptable to FSA, or
(ii) The FSA county executive director, with the concurrence of the FSA state executive director, makes a recommendation for an exemption from the requirements and FSA approves such recommendation.
(d) A zero-credited yield:
(1) Will be used in the applicable crop year of the actual production history base period for each crop year following the crop year containing an assigned yield, for which producers do not certify a report of acreage or production in a crop year that is not a bypass year, as determined by CCC.
(2) May be replaced with an actual yield when the producer provides a certification of production and acceptable production records for the applicable crop year in accordance with § 1437.8.
(e) An approved yield:
(1) Is used in the calculation of the requisite loss and payment.
(2) Is a simple average of a minimum of four base period crop year yields,
i.e.
, actual yield, T-yield, assigned yield, or zero-credited yield. The base period is 10 crop years, except 5 crop years for apples and peaches, immediately preceding the crop year for which an approved yield is calculated, not including any crop year the crop was out of rotation, not planted, or prevented from being planted.
(3) Will be calculated according to the following criteria when the producer does not have at least four consecutive crop years of actual, assigned, or zero credited yields beginning with the most recent crop year.
(i) If there are no certified acceptable production records of actual production for the most recent crop year, or zero credited or assigned yields in the producer's APH base period, and no formula provided for the producer under paragraphs (e)(3)(ii) through (iv) of this section, then the approved yield for the current crop year will be calculated on the simple average of 65 percent of the applicable T-yield for each of the minimum four APH crop years.
(ii) If certified acceptable production records of actual production are available for only the most recent crop year and there are no zero credited or assigned yields in the producer's APH base period, the approved yield for the current crop year will be calculated on the simple average of the one actual yield plus 80 percent of the applicable T-yield for the remaining three of the minimum four APH crop years.
(iii) If certified acceptable production records of actual production are available for only the two most recent crop years and there are no zero credited or assigned yields in the producer's APH base period, the approved yield for the current crop year will be calculated on the simple average of the two actual yields plus 90 percent of the applicable T-yield for the remaining two of the minimum four APH crop years.
(iv) If certified acceptable production records of actual production are available for only the three most recent crop years and there are no zero credited or assigned yields in the producer's APH base period, the approved yield for the current crop year will be calculated on the simple average of the three actual yields plus 100 percent of the applicable T-yield for the remaining crop year of the minimum four APH crop years.
(f) If, for one or more actual production history crop years used to establish the approved yield, the actual or appraised yield is less than 65 percent of the current crop year T-yield due to losses incurred in a disaster year, as determined by FSA, producers may request FSA replace the applicable yield with a yield equal to 65 percent of the current crop year T-yield.
(g) If approved yields were calculated for any of the 1995 through 2014 crop years, and subsequently in that period production was not certified, producers may request FSA replace the missing yields for such years with yields equal to the higher of 65 percent of the current crop year T-yield or the missing crop years actual yield.
(h) If producers add land in the farming operation and do not have available production records for the added land FSA will calculate an approved yield for the new unit by utilizing the actual production history yields for the existing unit. In the event the crop suffers a loss greater than the unit guarantee for the crop year and unit acreage has increased by more than 75 percent of
the historical average acreage, FSA may adjust the approved yield, as determined by FSA.
(i) If a producer is a new producer, the approved yield may be based on unadjusted T-Yields or a combination of actual yields and unadjusted T-Yields. A new producer is a person who has not been actively engaged in farming for a share of the production of the eligible crop in the administrative county for more than two APH crop years. Formation or dissolution of an entity which includes individuals with more than two APH crop years of production history during the base period does not qualify the new entity as a new producer for APH determination purposes.
(j) A producer who has not shared in the risk of the production of the crop for more than two crop years during the base period, as determined by FSA, will have an approved yield calculated based on a combination of 100 percent of the applicable T-yield and any actual yield for the minimum crop years of the producer's APH base period. Producers who have produced the crop for one or more crop years must provide FSA, at the administrative county office serving the area in which the crop is located, a certification of production and production records for the applicable crop years as specified in § 1437.8.
(k) Further adjustments may be made as necessary to accomplish the purposes of this program.
[67 FR 12448, Mar. 19, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 13744, Mar. 17, 2006; 76 FR 4805, Jan. 27, 2011; 79 FR 74579, 74583, Dec. 15, 2014]
§ 1437.103
Late-planted acreage.
(a) Producers planting crop acreage after the final planting date and during the late planting period, as determined by FSA, may be eligible for reduced coverage as specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b) Crops with multiple planting periods and value loss crops are not eligible for reduced coverage for late planting. Exceptions to this are the last planting period of multiple planted crops and multiple-planting periods having a defined gap of 60 days or more between harvest date of the previous planting period and beginning of the immediately following planting period.
(c) For crops with a growing period of:
(1) 60 days or less and planted:
(i) From 1 to 5 calendar days after the final planting date, production will be assigned equal to 5 percent of unit expected production for each day the crop is actually planted after the final planting date;
(ii) From 6 days after the final planting date, production will be assigned equal to the unit guarantee for the late planted crop acreage.
(2) 61 to 120 calendar days and planted:
(i) From 1 to 5 calendar days after the final planting date, production will be assigned equal to 5 percent of expected unit production of the applicable late-planted crop acreage and for days 6 through 20 an additional 1 percent for each day the crop is planted after the final planting date;
(ii) From 21 days after the final planting date, production will be assigned equal to the unit guarantee for the late planted crop acreage.
(3) 121 calendar days or more and planted:
(i) From 1 to 5 calendar days after the final planting date, production will be assigned equal to 5 percent of expected production of the applicable late-planted crop acreage and for days 6 through 25 an additional 1 percent for each day the crop is planted after the final planting date.
(ii) From 26 or more calendar days after the final planting date, production will be assigned equal to unit guarantee of the producer's expected production of the applicable late-planted crop acreage.
[79 FR 74580, Dec. 15, 2014]
§ 1437.104
Assigned production.
(a) When determining losses under this section, assigned production will be used to offset the loss of production when, as determined by FSA, any of the following has occurred:
(1) The loss is a result of an ineligible cause of loss and the loss has not been otherwise accounted for.
(2) The unit acreage was destroyed without consent notwithstanding § 1437.11(e).
(3) The producer has a contract to receive a guaranteed payment for all or a
portion of the production, as opposed to or regardless of delivery of such production.
(4) The crop is planted after the STC-established final planting date according to § 1437.103.
(5) Irrigation equipment is not capable of supplying adequate water to sustain the expected production of a normal irrigated crop.
(6) For normal irrigated annual, biennial, and perennial crops, the irrigation practice is not used.
(7) For normal irrigated annual and biennial crops, the supply of available water at the beginning of the crop year is not adequate.
(8) For normal irrigated perennial crops, the supply of available water at the beginning of the crop year is not adequate as a result of an ineligible cause of loss.
[71 FR 13745, Mar. 17, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 74580, 74583, Dec. 15, 2014]
§ 1437.105
Determining payments for low yield.
(a) Except to the extent that the loss calculation provisions of other subparts apply, and subject to limitations set out elsewhere in this part and in this title and to the availability of funds, payments under this part will be made on eligible crops with eligible losses by:
(1) Multiplying the total acres devoted to the eligible crop by the producers share, and subject to provisions for specific crops provided elsewhere in this part;
(2) Multiplying the product of paragraph (a)(1) of this section by 50, 55, 60, or 65 percent, as selected by the producer as specified in § 1437.5; of the approved yield per acre for the commodity for the producer.
(3) Multiplying the net production of the total eligible acreage by the producer's share;
(4) Subtracting the product of paragraph (a)(3) of this section from the product of paragraph (a)(2) of this section;
(5) Multiplying the amount calculated as specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section by 55 or 100 percent (selected by the producer as specified in § 1437.5) of the final payment price calculated as specified in § 1437.12; and
(6) Adding the producer's share of any salvage value and secondary use and subtracting the result from the result of paragraph (a)(5) of this section.
(b) Further adjustments may be made as needed to accomplish the purposes and goals of the program.
(c) The crops and locations eligible for quality adjustments will be determined by the Deputy Administrator in advance of the coverage period, only if supporting documentation of industry standards for quality adjustments are available. For specific crops and locations determined by the Deputy Administrator for which buy-up coverage under § 1437.5(d) is elected and for which adjustments to net production based on quality losses will be authorized for a coverage period in accordance with this paragraph, producers may opt for an adjustment of net production of a covered crop as specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section based on a specific measure of quality against a set of standards that are acceptable to FSA. The standards and permissible adjustments to net production based on alleged quality losses stemming from eligible causes of loss in a coverage period will be based on FSA's review of sufficient documentation and are subject to FSA acceptance and State committee recommendation to the Deputy Administrator. The crops and locations where quality adjustments will be permitted will be as specified on a list maintained by FSA.
(d) Production will not be adjusted under this section unless all other provisions of this section are met and the crop and location are included on a list of approved crops and locations before the beginning of the coverage period for the crop.
(e) A producer of a NAP covered crop in a location and coverage period approved by FSA as specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section who opts for the quality loss adjustment option must submit verifiable records obtained by testing or analysis of the specific crop's production and the alleged loss of quality stemming from an eligible cause of loss in the coverage period. Records must meet requirements of § 1437.8(a)(3).
(f) If a quality adjustment option is sought by a producer and approved for
a crop year, FSA will enter the adjusted value of net production into the producer's actual production history yield database for the loss year. The lower actual yield that results from the quality adjustment will be used for future approved yield calculations.
[67 FR 12448, Mar. 19, 2002. Redesignated and amended at 71 FR 13745, 13746, Mar. 17, 2006; 78 FR 21019, Apr. 9, 2013; 79 FR 74580, Dec. 15, 2014]
§ 1437.106
Honey.
(a) Honey production eligible for benefits under this part includes table and non-table honey produced commercially.
(b) All of a producer's honey will be considered a single crop, regardless of type or variety of floral source or intended use.
(c) The crop year for honey production is the calendar year, January 1 through December 31.
(d) In addition to filing a report of acreage in accordance with § 1437.8, honey producers must provide a record of colonies to FSA. The report of colonies must be filed before the crop year for which producers seek to maintain coverage. The report of colonies must include:
(1) The address of the producer's headquarters and FSA farm serial number, if available;
(2) Names and shares of each person sharing in the honey produced from the unit;
(3) The number of all colonies of bees belonging to the unit;
(4) The names of counties in which colonies of bees are located as of the date of the report; and
(5) A certification of the number of colonies reported including all colonies from which production is expected.
(e) The honey unit consists of all the producer's bee colonies, regardless of location.
(f) Producers must designate a FSA office as the control office for the honey operation. Producers must complete the following actions only in the control office:
(1) File an application for coverage;
(2) File a report of colonies;
(3) Report total unit production; and
(4) Request to change a unit's control office.
(g) Actions that may be taken in any administrative county office includes:
(1) Designating or selecting another control office; or
(2) Filing a notice of loss in accordance with § 1437.11.
(h) Producers must notify the control office designated in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section within 30 calendar days of the date of:
(1) Any changes in the total number of colonies; and
(2) The movement of any colonies into any additional counties.
(i) Payments will be based on the amount of losses for this community based on the applicable guarantee at a rate determined in accord with this part and the authorizing legislation.
(j) Premiums for coverage levels specified in § 1437.5(c) will be calculated based on the highest number of colonies reported during the program year.
[67 FR 12448, Mar. 19, 2002. Redesignated at 71 FR 13745, Mar. 17, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 74581, Dec. 15, 2014]
§ 1437.107
Maple sap.
(a) NAP assistance for maple sap is limited to maple sap produced on private property for sale as sap or syrup. Eligible maple sap must be produced from trees that:
(1) Are located on land the producer controls by ownership or lease;
(2) Are managed for production of maple sap;
(3) Are at least 30 years old and 12 inches in diameter; and
(4) Have a maximum of 4 taps per tree according to the tree's diameter.
(b) The crop year for maple sap production is the calendar year, January 1 through December 31.
(c) If producers file an application for coverage in accordance with § 1437.7, tree acreage containing trees from which maple sap is produced or is to be produced must be reported to FSA no later than the beginning of the crop year.
(d) In addition to the applicable records required under § 1437.8, producers must report the:
(1) Total number of eligible trees on the unit;
(2) Average size and age of producing trees; and
(3) Total number of taps placed or anticipated for the tapping season.
(e) A maximum county-expected-yield for maple sap is 10 gallons of sap per tap per crop year unless acceptable documentary evidence, as determined by FSA, is available to FSA to support a higher county-expected-yield.
(f) The average market price for maple sap must be established for the value of the sap before processing into syrup. If price data is available only for maple syrup, this data must be converted to a maple sap basis. The wholesale price for a gallon of maple syrup is multiplied by 0.00936 to arrive at the average market price of a gallon of maple sap.
(g) The actual production history for maple sap will be recorded on the basis of gallons of sap per tap.
(h) The unit's expected production is determined by:
(1) Multiplying the number of taps placed in eligible trees; by
(2) The approved per tap yield as determined in accordance with § 1437.102.
(i) Payments will be based on the amount of losses for this community based on the applicable guarantee at a rate determined in accord with this part and the authorizing legislation.
(j) Premiums for coverage levels specified in § 1437.5(c) will be calculated based on the number of taps reported by the producer.
[67 FR 12448, Mar. 19, 2002. Redesignated at 71 FR 13745, Mar. 17, 2006; 79 FR 74581, Dec. 15, 2014]
§ 1437.108
Hemp.
(a) Hemp is eligible for NAP coverage only if the hemp is:
(1) Grown under an official certification or license issued by the applicable governing authority that permits the production of the hemp;
(2) Grown under a hemp processor contract executed by the applicable acreage reporting date; and
(3) Planted for harvest as hemp in accordance with the requirements of the hemp processor contract and the production management practices of the hemp processor.
(b) In addition to all other requirements under this part, a producer who obtains NAP coverage for hemp must submit by the acreage reporting date:
(1) The certification or license number;
(2) A copy of the certification form or official license issued by the applicable governing authority authorizing the producer to produce hemp; and
(3) A copy of each fully executed hemp processor contract.
(c) A producer must submit THC test results taken at harvest of the hemp crop. If the producer does not submit the THC test results, that production will not be included in the producer's actual yield for the purpose of determining a producer's APH under § 1437.101.
(d) Hemp is not eligible for NAP coverage if it is planted on acres on which Cannabis, canola, dry beans, dry peas, mustard, rapeseed, soybeans in states as determined by the Deputy Administrator, or sunflowers were grown the preceding crop year.
(e) Hemp that has a THC level above 0.3 percent:
(1) Is not eligible for NAP benefits; and
(2) Is not included in the producer's actual yield for the purpose of determining a producer's APH under § 1437.101.
(f) Hemp will be ineligible for NAP payment for that NAP crop year if the producer's certification or license is terminated or suspended during that NAP crop year.
[85 FR 12220, Mar. 2, 2020]
§§ 1437.109-1437.200
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Determining Coverage for Prevented Planted Acreage
§ 1437.201
Prevented planting acreage.
(a) In addition to the provisions of this section, the provisions of § 718.103 of this title apply.
(b) When determining losses under this section:
(1) Producers must be prevented from planting more than 35 percent of the total eligible acreage intended for planting to the eligible crop and in the case of multiple planting, more than 35 percent of the total eligible acres intended to be planted within the applicable planting period.
(2) Prevented planted acreage will be considered separately from low-yield losses of planted acreage of the same crop.
(c) Acreage and units ineligible for prevented planting coverage includes, but is not limited to:
(1) Value-loss crops, including, but not limited to, Christmas trees, aquaculture, and ornamental nursery;
(2) Tree crops and other perennials, unless:
(i) The producer can prove resources unique to the planting of tree crops and other perennials were available to plant, grow, and harvest the crop, as determined by FSA; and
(ii) FSA has approved the planting period for the crop;
(3) Uninsured crop acreage that is unclassified for insurance purposes;
(4) Any acreage on which a crop was harvested, hayed, or grazed during the crop year;
(5) Acreage of which the producer or any other person received a prevented planted payment for any crop for the same acreage, excluding share arrangements; and
(6) Acreage planted during the late-planting period.
[71 FR 13746, Mar. 17, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 74581,74583, Dec. 15, 2014]
§ 1437.202
Determining payments for prevented planting.
(a) Subject to limitations, availability of funds, and specific provisions dealing with specific crops, a payment for prevented planting will be determined by:
(1) Adding the total planted and prevented-planted acres;
(2) Multiplying the sum of paragraph (a)(1) of this section by .35;
(3) Subtracting the product of paragraph (a)(2) of this section from the total prevented planted acres;
(4) Multiplying the producer's share by the approved yield by the positive result of paragraph (a)(3) of this section;
(5) Multiplying the producer's share by the assigned production;
(6) Subtracting the product of paragraph (a)(5) of this section from the product of paragraph (a)(4) of this section; and
(7) Multiplying the result of paragraph (a)(6) of this section by 55 or 100 percent, as selected by the producer as specified in § 1437.5, of the final payment price calculated under § 1437.12.
(b) Yields for purposes of paragraph (a) of this section will be calculated in the same manner as for low-yield claims.
[67 FR 12448, Mar. 19, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 13746, Mar. 17, 2006; 79 FR 74581, Dec. 15, 2014]
§§ 1437.203-1437.300
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Determining Coverage Using Value
§ 1437.301
Value loss.
(a) Special provisions are required to assess losses and calculate assistance for a few crops and commodities that do not lend themselves to yield loss situations. Assistance for these commodities is calculated based on the loss of value at the time of disaster. FSA determines which crops are value-loss crops, but unless otherwise announced, value-loss crops are those identified in §§ 1437.303 through 1437.309. Lost production of value loss crops is eligible for payment only as specified in this subpart.
(b) The crop year for all value loss crops, except ornamental nursery as specified in § 1437.305, is October 1 through September 30.
(c) Producers must file an application for coverage in accordance with § 1437.7, and must:
(1) Provide a report of the crop, commodity, and facility to FSA for the acreage or facility, in a form prescribed by FSA, no later than the beginning of the crop year.
(2) Maintain a verifiable inventory of the eligible crop throughout the crop year; and
(3) Provide an accurate accounting of the inventory, as required by FSA.
[67 FR 12448, Mar. 19, 2002, as amended at 78 FR 21019, Apr. 9, 2013; 79 FR 74581, 74583, Dec. 15, 2014; 85 FR 12221, Mar. 2, 2020]
§ 1437.302
Determining payments.
(a) Subject to all restrictions and the availability of funds, value loss payments for qualifying losses will be determined by:
(1) Multiplying the field market value of the crop before the disaster, or for buy-up coverage specified in § 1437.5(c), the lesser of the field market value of the crop before the disaster or the maximum dollar value for coverage sought, by 50, 55, 60, or 65 percent, as selected by the producer as specified in § 1437.5;
(2) Subtracting the sum of the field market value after the disaster and value of ineligible causes of loss from the result from paragraph (a)(1) of this section;
(3) Multiplying the result from paragraph (a)(2) of this section by the producer's share;
(4) Multiplying the result from paragraph (a)(3) of this section by 55 or 100 percent, as selected by the producer as specified in § 1437.5, plus whatever appropriate factor reflects savings from non-harvesting of the damaged crop or other factors as appropriate; and
(5) Subtracting the producer's share of any salvage value, if applicable.
(b) [Reserved]
[79 FR 74581, Dec. 15, 2014]
§ 1437.303
Aquaculture, including ornamental fish.
(a) Aquaculture is a value loss crop and will have NAP assistance calculated only in accord with restrictions set in this section. Eligible aquacultural species only include:
(1) Any species of aquatic organisms grown as food for human consumption as determined by CCC.
(2) Fish raised as feed for other fish that are consumed by humans; and
(3) Ornamental fish propagated and reared in an aquatic medium.
(b) The aquacultural facility must be:
(1) A commercial enterprise on private property;
(2) Owned or leased by the producer, with readily identifiable boundaries; and
(3) Managed and maintained using good aquacultural growing practices.
(c) Producers must:
(1) Ensure adequate and proper flood prevention, growing medium, fertilization or feeding, irrigation and water quality, predator control, and disease control; and
(2) Have control of the waterbed.
(d) Eligible aquacultural species must be:
(1) Placed in the facility and not be indigenous to the facility; and
(2) Kept in a controlled environment; and
(3) Planted or seeded in containers, wire baskets, net pens, on ropes, or similar device designed for the protection and containment of the seeded aquacultural species.
(e) For mollusks that are not planted or seeded in containers, net pens, on ropes, wire baskets, or similar device designed for the containment and protection of the mollusks, the only eligible cause of loss of mollusks or missing mollusk inventory will be a direct result of a National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration-determined tropical storm, typhoon, or hurricane.
(f) In the crop year in which a notice of loss is filed, producers may be required, at the discretion of CCC, to provide evidence that the aquacultural species are produced in a facility in accordance with paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this section.
(g) If all other eligibility provisions of this part are determined by FSA to be satisfied, assistance will be provided to producers for eligible NAP aquaculture crop losses that are the direct result of drought.
[67 FR 12448, Mar. 19, 2002, as amended at 78 FR 21019, Apr. 9, 2013; 79 FR 74581, Dec. 15, 2014]
§ 1437.304
Floriculture.
(a) Floriculture, except for seed crops as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, is a value loss crop and is compensable only in accord with restrictions set in this section. Eligible floriculture is limited to commercial production of:
(1) Field-grown flowers, including flowers grown in containers or other growing medium maintained in a field setting according to industry standards, as determined by FSA; and
(2) Tubers and bulbs, for use as propagation stock of eligible floriculture plants; and
(3) Seed for propagation of eligible floriculture plants.
(b) Floriculture does not include flowering plants indigenous to the location of the floriculture facility or acreage.
(c) Eligible floriculture must be grown in a region or controlled environment conducive to the successful production of flowers, tubers, and bulbs, as determined by FSA.
(d) Claims on losses on the production of flower seed for propagation of eligible floriculture plants will not be treated under “value loss” rules, but under the rules for normal production low yield crops under subpart B of this part.
(e) The facility or acreage for eligible floriculture must be managed and maintained using good floriculture growing practices. At a minimum, producers are responsible for providing a controlled environment and must ensure adequate and proper fertilization, irrigation, weed control, insect and disease control, and rodent and wildlife control.
(f) In the crop year in which a notice of loss is filed, producers may be required, at the discretion of FSA, to provide evidence the floriculture is produced in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(g) Flowers having any dollar value are counted as having full value for loss calculations. Damaged plants that are determined able to rejuvenate or determined to be merely stunted are counted as worth full value.
[67 FR 12448, Mar. 19, 2002, as amended at 79 FR 74581, 74583, Dec. 15, 2014]
§ 1437.305
Ornamental nursery.
(a) Eligible ornamental nursery stock is a value loss crop and is compensable only in accord with restrictions set out in this section. Eligible ornamental nursery stock is limited to field-grown and containerized decorative plants grown in a controlled environment for commercial sale.
(b) The property upon which the nursery stock is located must be owned or leased by the producer.
(c) The eligible nursery stock must be placed in the ornamental nursery facility and not be indigenous to the facility.
(d) The facility must be managed and cared for using good nursery growing practices for the geographical region. At a minimum producers must provide a controlled environment and ensure adequate and proper flood prevention, growing medium, fertilization, irrigation, insect and disease control, weed control, rodent and wildlife control, and over-winterization storage facilities.
(e) An ornamental plant having any value as an ornamental plant, or a damaged ornamental plant that may rejuvenate and re-establish value as an ornamental plant, will be considered as worth full value based on the age or size of the plant at the time of disaster.
(f) In the crop year in which a notice of loss is filed, producers may be required, at the discretion of FSA, to provide evidence the ornamental nursery is maintained in accordance with this section.
(g) For the 2010 and subsequent crops, the crop year for ornamental nursery is June 1 through May 31.
[67 FR 12448, Mar. 19, 2002, as amended at 78 FR 21019, Apr. 9, 2013; 79 FR 74582, 74583, Dec. 15, 2014]
§ 1437.306
Christmas tree crops.
(a) A Christmas tree is a value loss crop and may generate a claim for benefits under this part only if the tree was grown exclusively for commercial use as a Christmas tree, and only if other requirements of this section are met.
(b) The unit of measure for all Christmas tree crops is a plant.
(c) A Christmas tree having any value as a Christmas tree, or a damaged Christmas tree that may rejuvenate and re-establish value as a Christmas tree, will be considered as worth full value based on the age of the tree at the time of disaster.
[67 FR 12448, Mar. 19, 2002, as amended at 79 FR 74582, Dec. 15, 2014]
§ 1437.307
Mushrooms.
(a) Eligible mushrooms is a value loss crop and is only compensable in accord
with the restrictions of this section. To be eligible, the mushrooms must be grown as a commercial crop in a facility with a controlled environment utilizing good mushroom growing practices. The facility must be located on private property either owned or leased by the producer.
(b) The controlled environment for eligible mushrooms must include primary and backup systems for:
(1) Temperature and humidity controls;
(2) Proper and adequate lighting; and
(3) Positive air pressurization and filtration.
(c) The growing medium must consist of a substrate (a habitat and nutrient base) sterilized by heat treatment.
(d) Good mushroom growing practices must be used, and they consist of proper and adequate insect and disease control and the maintenance of a sterile environment. Maintaining a sterile environment includes at a minimum:
(1) Adequate hygiene;
(2) Overall cleanliness;
(3) Isolation or minimum contact procedures;
(4) Use of footpaths; and
(5) Availability and frequent utilization of wash-down facilities.
(e) In the crop year in which a notice of loss is filed, producers may be required, at the discretion of FSA, to provide evidence the mushrooms are maintained in accordance with this section.
[67 FR 12448, Mar. 19, 2002, as amended at 79 FR 74583, Dec. 15, 2014]
§ 1437.308
Ginseng.
(a) Ginseng is a value loss crop and is compensable only as allowed in this section. Ginseng is eligible only if:
(1) The ginseng includes stratified seeds for use as propagation stock in a commercial ginseng operation or rootlet for commercial sale that are grown in a controlled, cultivatable environment on private property either owned or leased by the producer; and
(2) The ginseng is grown using good ginseng growing practices with all plant needs supplied and under control of the producer;
(b) Ginseng will not be eligible to generate benefits under this part if it:
(1) Is indigenous to the facility;
(2) Is grown solely for medicinal purposes; and
(3) Includes wild ginseng rootlet that is harvested and transplanted from woodland grown ginseng.
(c) Good ginseng growing practices must be followed, and include, but are not limited to:
(1) Adequate drainage;
(2) Proper and adequate shade;
(3) Accurate pH level;
(4) Adequate and timely fertilization, including an adequate supply to ensure nutrient reserves to the ginseng plants and customary application equipment;
(5) Adequate pest control, including but not limited to, weed, rodent, and wildlife control; and
(6) Disease control.
(d) Ginseng producers must:
(1) Provide a report of inventory of all ginseng, as determined by FSA;
(2) Provide production and sales records necessary to determine the value of eligible ginseng;
(3) Allow an FSA-certified loss adjustor to verify loss, including physically removing representative samples;
(4) Maintain and provide, as determined by FSA, adequate records of fertilization, and pest and disease controls used or put into place during the crop year; and
(5) Possess a valid food processing license issued by the applicable State Department of Agriculture or equivalent and subject to food regulations administered by the Food and Drug Administration.
(e) In the crop year in which a notice of loss is filed, producers may be required, at the discretion of FSA, to provide evidence the ginseng was produced in accordance with this section.
[67 FR 12448, Mar. 19, 2002, as amended at 79 FR 74582,74583, Dec. 15, 2014]
§ 1437.309
Turfgrass sod.
(a) Turfgrass sod is a value loss crop and is the upper stratum of soil bound by mature grass and plant roots into a thick mat produced in commercial quantities for sale.
(b) Specific species, types or varieties of grass intended for turfgrass sod will be considered a separate crop without regard to other intended uses.
(c) The unit of measure for all turfgrass sod is a square yard.
(d) Turfgrass sod having any value will be considered as worth full value.
(e) In addition to the records required in § 1437.8, producers seeking payment must provide information to FSA regarding the average number of square yards per acre and all unharvested areas.
[67 FR 12448, Mar. 19, 2002, as amended at 79 FR 74582, 74583, Dec. 15, 2014]
§ 1437.310
Sea grass and sea oats.
(a) Sea grass and sea oats are value loss crops and eligibility will be limited to ornamental plants grown for commercial sale and seeds and transplants produced for commercial sale as propagation stock.
(b) An eligible commodity under this section intended for sale on a commercial basis as:
(1) An ornamental plant can produce a claim in the event of a loss due to a qualifying condition only in the same manner and subject to the same conditions as ornamental nursery stock under § 1437.305 and such claims will not, as such, be subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) through (h) of this section, except to the extent that similar provisions apply to claims under § 1437.305.
(2) Propagation stock (seed or transplant) can produce a claim under this part but only in accord with the provisions that follow in this section and subject to other conditions on payment as may be imposed elsewhere in this part.
(c) For purposes of a loss calculation arising under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the value of:
(1) Seed will be determined on a yield basis made in accordance with subpart B of this part and average market price established in accordance with § 1437.12.
(2) Transplant losses will be determined based on inventory that existed immediately before and after the disaster and average market price established in accordance with § 1437.12.
(d) Transplant producers must have up-to-date inventory and sales records and other documents, sufficient to document actual losses, as determined by FSA.
(e) The land, waterbed, or facility in which the eligible commodity was located at the time of loss must:
(1) Be owned or leased by the producer;
(2) Have readily identifiable boundaries; and
(3) Be managed and maintained using acceptable growing practices for the geographical region, as determined by FSA.
(f) The producer must have control of the land, waterbed, or facility and must ensure adequate and proper:
(1) Flood prevention;
(2) Growing medium;
(3) Fertilization or feeding;
(4) Irrigation and water quality;
(5) Weed control;
(6) Pest and disease control;
(7) Rodent and wildlife control; and
(8) Over-winterization facilities, as applicable.
(g) The eligible commodity must be:
(1) Grown in a region or controlled environment conducive to successful production, as determined by FSA; and
(2) Placed in the waterbed or facility in which the loss occurs and not be indigenous to the waterbed or facility.
(h) Eligible commodities having any dollar value after the disaster will be considered as having full value when making loss calculations. Also, damaged plants that do not have any value after the disaster but that can be rejuvenated or may, if not fully rejuvenated, reacquire value, will be counted as worth full value as well.
(i) In the crop year in which a notice of loss is filed, producers may be required, at the discretion of FSA, to provide evidence that the eligible commodity was produced in accordance with paragraphs (e), (f), and (g) of this section and other provisions of this part.
[67 FR 62324, Oct. 7, 2002, as amended at 79 FR 74582, 74583, Dec. 15, 2014]
§§ 1437.311-1437.400
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Determining Coverage of Forage Intended for Animal Consumption
§ 1437.401
Forage.
(a) Forage eligible for benefits under this part is limited to mature vegetation, as determined by FSA, produced in a commercial operation. Benefits are not available for first-year seeding
of alfalfa and similar vegetation when production is not produced in the seeding year, as determined by FSA. The commercial operation must use acceptable farming, pasture, and range management practices for the location necessary to sustain sufficient quality and quantity of the vegetation so as to be suitable for grazing livestock or mechanical harvest as hay or seed. Forage to be mechanically harvested will be treated under the rules for low-yield crops as calculated under § 1437.103, except claims on forage for grazing benefits will be determined according to paragraph (f) of this section. The provisions in this subpart apply to all claims including forage for mechanical harvest.
(b) Producers of forage must, in addition to the records required in § 1437.8, specify the intended method of harvest of all acreage intended as forage for livestock consumption as either mechanically or grazed.
(c) Producers must request an appraisal from the administrative county office for the unit prior to the onset of grazing of any intended mechanically harvested forage acreage that will be both mechanically harvested and grazed.
(d) Forage acreage reported to FSA as intended to be mechanically harvested, but which is instead subsequently grazed, will be considered for crop definition purposes as mechanically harvested. Expected production of the specific acreage for which catastrophic coverage was obtained will be calculated on the basis of carrying capacity. The loss of such grazed forage will be determined according to paragraph (f) of this section. For acreage intended to be mechanically harvested which is instead subsequently grazed, the loss of intended mechanically harvested forage may alternatively be determined based on a review of acceptable production evidence or appraisal of the specific crop acreage. As part of the payment computation for this loss, intended mechanically harvested forage crop acreage that is not mechanically harvested but instead grazed will be deemed to be un-harvested for the purposes of determining a payment factor.
(e) Small grain forage is the specific acreage of wheat, barley, oats, triticale, or rye intended for use as forage. Small grain forage is a separate crop and distinct from any other forage commodities and other intended uses of the small grain commodity. In addition to the records required in § 1437.8, producers must specify whether the intended forage crop is intended for fall and winter, spring, or full season forage. In addition to other eligibility requirements, FSA will consider other factors, such as water sources and available fencing, and adequate fertilization to determine small grain forage eligibility, yields, and production.
(f) FSA will establish forage losses of acreage intended to be grazed including, in some cases, acreage intended to be mechanically harvested but instead subsequently grazed for producers with catastrophic coverage, on the basis of:
(1) The percentage of loss of similar mechanically-harvested forage acreage on the farm, or on similar farms in the area when approved yields have been calculated to determine loss; or
(2) Where there is no similar mechanically-harvested forage acreage on the farm or similar farms in the area, the collective percentage of loss as determined by FSA for the geographical region after consideration of at least two independent assessments of grazed forage acreage conditions, or by alternative methods as determined by the Deputy Administrator.
(i) The assessments must be completed by forage or range specialists in Federal, State, and local government agencies, educational institutions, and private companies not having a financial interest in the outcome of the assessment. Collective percentage of loss determined by FSA for the geographical region may be based on any or all the following methods as may be available and as determined appropriate by the Deputy Administrator:
(A) Independent assessments of grazed forage acreage conditions;
(B) The U.S. Drought Monitor;
(C) Information obtained from loss adjusters with sufficient forage knowledge to provide grazing loss assessments;
(D) Data obtained from approved areas where clippings are obtained on a
regular basis to compare with expected levels of production in a geographical region; or
(E) Information from Natural Resources Conservation Service technical service providers having a specialized knowledge.
(ii) Neither the assessments themselves, nor collective loss percentages established in accordance with this section are subject to appeal. FSA's determinations of geographical area for assessments and collective grazing loss are generally applicable to all similarly situated participants farming in such defined geographical region.
(g) For those NAP covered participants who seek to have a NAP payment determined based on paragraph (f)(2) of this section, a notice of loss under § 1437.11 will not be required; only an application for payment must be filed. Unless otherwise expressed by the NAP covered participant, FSA will presume the participant to want assistance for grazed forage determined according to paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
[79 FR 74582, Dec. 15, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 12221, Mar. 2, 2020]
§ 1437.402
Carrying capacity.
(a) FSA will establish a carrying capacity for all grazed forage present in the county for purposes of administering this program and to that end:
(1) Multiple carrying capacities may be determined for a specific vegetation if factors, such as soil type, elevation, and topography, result in a significant difference of carrying capacity within the county.
(2) FSA may establish separate carrying capacities for irrigated and non-irrigated forage acreage when acreage of traditionally irrigated forage (forage actually irrigated 3 of the last 5 crop years) is present in the county.
(b) Producers may provide evidence that unit forage management and maintenance practices are improvements over those practices generally associated with the established carrying capacity. Based on this evidence, FSA may adjust the expected AUD for the specific forage acreage with catastrophic coverage upward for the crop year NAP assistance is requested by:
(1) Three percent when at least 1 practice was completed at least 1 time in the previous 5 crop years and such practice can be expected to have a positive impact on the forage's carrying capacity in the crop year NAP assistance is requested;
(2) Five percent when 2 or more practices were completed at least 1 time in the previous 5 crop years and such practices can be expected to have a positive impact on the forage's carrying capacity in the crop year NAP assistance is requested; and
(3) Greater than 5 percent when producers provide acceptable records, as determined by FSA, of higher forage production or an increase in animal units supported on the specific forage acreage in 3 of the 5 crop years immediately before the crop year NAP assistance is requested.
[67 FR 12448, Mar. 19, 2002, as amended at 79 FR 74582, 74583, Dec. 15, 2014]
§ 1437.403
Determining payments.
(a) Subject to payment limits, availability of funds, and other limits as may apply, payments for catastrophic coverage of losses of forage reported to FSA as intended to be grazed will be determined by:
(1) Multiplying the eligible acreage by the producer's share;
(2) Dividing the result from paragraph (a)(1) of this section by the carrying capacity or adjusted per day carrying capacity established for the specific catastrophic coverage acreage, as determined by FSA;
(3) Multiplying the result from paragraph (a)(2) of this section by the number of days established as the grazing period;
(4) Adding adjustments of AUD for practices and production to the product of paragraph (a)(3) of this section;
(5) Multiplying the result from paragraph (a)(4) of this section by the applicable percentage of loss established by FSA;
(6) Multiplying the amount of assigned AUD, as determined by FSA, by the producer's share;
(7) Subtracting the result from paragraph (a)(6) of this section from the result from paragraph (a)(5) of this section;
(8) Multiplying the result from paragraph (a)(4) of this section by 0.50;
(9) Subtracting the result from paragraph (a)(8) of this section from the result from paragraph (a)(7) of this section; and
(10) Multiplying the result from paragraph (a)(9) of this section by 55 percent of the final payment price established in accordance with § 1437.12.
(b) [Reserved]
[79 FR 74582, Dec. 15, 2014]
§ 1437.404
Information collection requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act; OMB control number.
An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. The OMB control number for the regulation in this part is 0560-0175.

# Subpart F—Determining Coverage in the Tropical Region

# Source:
71 FR 52739, Sept. 7, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1437.501
Applicability; definition of “tropical region” and additional definitions.
(a) This subpart applies to covered tropical crops in the tropical region, as those terms are defined in this subpart. Benefits under this part may be extended to those crops only to the extent that they are otherwise eligible for assistance under this part. Covered crops do not include “value loss” crops, as defined elsewhere in this part. For those crops that are covered by this subpart, loss and payment determinations for NAP covered in this part are determined by the rules that otherwise apply to NAP subject to the modifications provided by this subpart. The rules that otherwise apply include, but are not limited to, limitations on payments that are specified in part 1400 of this chapter.
(b) For purposes of this subpart:
(1)
Tropical region
includes, as may be further limited by the Deputy Administrator: Hawaii, American Samoa, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States. Other areas may be included as determined by the Deputy Administrator to be required by law. References to specific areas elsewhere in this subpart will not limit the ability of the Deputy Administrator to limit the geographic scope of this subpart.
(2)
Covered tropical crops
means those crops and commodities in the tropical region governed by this subpart, those being all crops and commodities in the tropical region that are otherwise eligible for generating a benefit claim under this part, except for value-loss crops as defined elsewhere in this part.
(c) The Deputy Administrator may adjust requirements for assistance so as to provide a fair transition from previous rules for crop covered by this subpart to those provisions which are provided for in this subpart.
[71 FR 52739, Sept. 7, 2006, as amended at 78 FR 21019, Apr. 9, 2013; 79 FR 74583, Dec. 15, 2014]
§ 1437.502
Coverage periods and fees for covered tropical crops.
(a) The crop year for all covered tropical crops is the calendar year (January 1 through December 31).
(b) The application closing date for all covered tropical crops is December 31 of the calendar year before the applicable crop year.
(c) For covered tropical crops, the maximum service fee per crop per county provided at § 1437.7 is required of the producer for coverage of:
(1) With respect to annual and biennial crops, all plantings of the same crop planted during the crop year, as determined by FSA.
(2) With respect to perennial crops, all acreage of the crop existing during the crop year, as determined by FSA.
(d) Multiple planting periods and final planting dates are not applicable for covered tropical crops. However, nothing in this section will be interpreted to prohibit assigning different production expectations to different fields.
(e) The coverage period for perennial and other crops covered by this subpart begins on January 1 of the relevant crop year and ends on December 31 of that year.
[71 FR 52739, Sept. 7, 2006, as amended at 78 FR 21019, Apr. 9, 2013; 79 FR 74583, Dec. 15, 2014; 85 FR 12221, Mar. 2, 2020]
§ 1437.503
Covered losses and recordkeeping requirements for covered tropical crops.
(a) Prevented planting coverage is not available for covered tropical crops.
(b) Except in Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and other areas approved by the Deputy Administrator, or as otherwise approved by the Deputy Administrator in individual cases, eligible causes of loss for covered tropical crops will only include hurricanes, typhoons, and named tropical storms.
(c) Producers who have applied for coverage on covered tropical crops must maintain for the full coverage period contemporaneous records. Contemporaneous records are those created at the time of planting and harvesting of the crop for which the application for coverage is filed. In this regard:
(1) Producers may be selected on a random or targeted basis for compliance review with this requirement and any other requirements that may apply to this program.
(2) A failure to maintain acceptable contemporaneous records throughout the crop year may be treated by FSA as grounds of ineligibility for benefits under this part.
[71 FR 52739, Sept. 7, 2006, as amended at 78 FR 21019, Apr. 9, 2013; 79 FR 74583, Dec. 15, 2014; 85 FR 12221, Mar. 2, 2020]
§ 1437.504
Notice of loss for covered tropical crops.
(a) The provisions of § 1437.11(d) regarding late filed notice of loss do not apply to covered tropical crops.
(b) Where a notice of loss for covered tropical crops is provided according to § 1437.11, producers must provide records maintained according to § 1437.503(c) of the:
(1) Number of acres or other basis of measurement, as applicable, of the crop from which production could be achieved existing on the day the eligible natural disaster occurred or, for prolonged natural disasters, such as a drought and similar damage where applicable, existing on the day the notice of loss is filed.
(2) Amount, including zero, as applicable, of production harvested, before or after the disaster, from those crop plantings (damaged or undamaged) which were in existence on the farm at the time of the disaster including production from the covered plantings (in existence at the time of the loss event) that may occur after the loss event even when, to the extent provided for in paragraph (c) of this section, the harvest occurs after the end of the crop year. Crop acreage of the covered crop that is in existence at the time of the loss event that can be harvested after the eligible natural disaster must be harvested, or continue to be harvested, and the harvested acres and production reported to FSA according to this subpart, except that for perennial crops the requirement ends with the end of the crop year. For non-perennial crops the obligation to harvest ends with the end of the life-cycle for the plantings that were in existence at the time of the loss event. In this regard:
(i) Except as otherwise determined by FSA, such production, before or after the loss event, will be taken into account in computing eligibilities.
(ii) Production that must be reported under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section includes, except in the case of perennial plants, all production irrespective of whether the production occurs in the same crop year.
(iii) For perennial plants, only production in the same crop year must be reported.
(iv) All production that must be reported for covered tropical crops will, except as specified by the Deputy Administrator, be taken into account in the loss determinations made under this part. The producer is obligated to maximize that production. That is, harvesting and other production activities for the plants in the ground at the time of the disaster must be undertaken or continue to be undertaken, to the maximum extent possible, for the full reporting period, that being the period for which production could count against a loss as indicated in this subpart.
(3) Failure to keep sufficient records to allow the computations provided for in this subpart is grounds for denial of the claim.
(c) Producers with coverage of a covered tropical crop for a crop year must, by the earlier of 90 calendar days after
the crop year ends or the date a notice of loss is filed, file a certified report setting out the:
(1) Collective acres of the crop acreage planted or in the ground during the crop year.
(2) Total production harvested from the crop acreage for the full crop year in the case of a perennial plant and for the full life of the plants for other crops.
(d) With respect to the report required in paragraph (c) of this section:
(1) If a report is filed before the end of the crop year, an updated crop report must be filed within 90 calendar days from the end of the crop year to supplement the original report;
(2) If the report is for any annual or biennial crops where production continued or could have continued beyond the period covered in the reports otherwise filed under this section, an additional report of production must be filed within 30 days of the end of the last countable production for the covered crop or 30 days after the last date on which such production could have been obtained, whichever is later.
(3) A failure to file an adequate report where a report is required by this section may result in the producer being treated as having a zero yield capability for the crop year involved for purposes of constructing a crop history. Alternatively, the Deputy Administrator may assign another sanction for that failure. In addition to other sanctions as may apply, a failure to file such reports may be grounds for denial of a claim. The Deputy Administrator may adjust crop histories as determined appropriate to create, to the extent practicable, an appropriate crop history for loss computation purposes.
(4) Such reports as are provided for in this subsection must be filed for every crop year for which there is coverage, irrespective of whether a claim is filed for that year.
(e) Unless otherwise specified by the Deputy Administrator, appraisals are not required of crop acreage for covered tropical crops on Guam, Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
(f) All crop acreage for covered tropical crops for which a notice of loss is filed must not be destroyed until authorized by FSA.
[71 FR 52739, Sept. 7, 2006, as amended at 78 FR 21019, Apr. 9, 2013; 79 FR 74583, Dec. 15, 2014]
§ 1437.505
Application for payment for the tropical region.
(a) For producers of covered tropical crops, except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section or approved in individual cases by the Deputy Administrator, an application for payment must be filed at the same time as the filing of the notice of loss required under §§ 1437.11 and 1437.504.
(b) For producers in Puerto Rico, Hawaii, Guam, American Samoa, and the Northern Marianna Islands, an application for payment for such crops must be filed by the later of:
(1) The date on which the notice of loss is filed in accordance with §§ 1437.11 and 1437.504, or
(2) The date of the completion of harvest for the specific crop acreage that existed at the time of loss for which the notice of loss was filed.
[78 FR 21019, Apr. 9, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 74583, Dec. 15, 2014]
Pt. 1450

# PART 1450—BIOMASS CROP ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (BCAP)

# Subpart A—Common Provisions
Sec.
1450.1
Administration.
1450.2
Definitions.
1450.3
General.
1450.4
Violations.
1450.5
Performance based on advice or action of USDA.
1450.6
Access to land.
1450.7
Division of payments and provisions about tenants and sharecroppers.
1450.8
Payments not subject to claims.
1450.9
Appeals.
1450.10
Scheme or device.
1450.11
Filing of false claims.
1450.12
Miscellaneous.

# Subpart B—Matching Payments
1450.100
General.
1450.101
Qualified biomass conversion facility.
1450.102
Eligible material owner.
1450.103
Eligible material for payments.
1450.104
Signup.
1450.105
Obligations of participant.
1450.106
Payments.

# Subpart C—Establishment Payments and Annual Payments
1450.200
General.
1450.201
Project area proposal submission requirements.
1450.202
Project area selection criteria.
1450.203
Eligible persons and legal entities.
1450.204
Eligible land.
1450.205
Duration of contracts.
1450.206
Obligations of participant.
1450.207
Conservation plan, forest stewardship plan, or equivalent plan.
1450.208
Eligible practices.
1450.209
Signup.
1450.210
Acceptability of offers.
1450.211
BCAP contract.
1450.212
Establishment payments.
1450.213
Levels and rates for establishment payments.
1450.214
Annual payments.
1450.215
Transfer of land.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 8111.

# Source:
75 FR 66234, Oct. 27, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Common Provisions
§ 1450.1
Administration.
(a) The regulations in this part are administered under the general supervision and direction of the Executive Vice President, Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC), or a designee. In the field, the regulations in this part will be implemented by the Farm Service Agency (FSA) State and county committees (“State committees” and “county committees,” respectively).
(b) State executive directors, county executive directors, and State and county committees do not have the authority to modify or waive any of the provisions in this part unless specifically authorized by the FSA Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs (Deputy Administrator).
(c) The State committee may take any action authorized or required by this part to be taken by the county committee, but which has not been taken by such committee, such as:
(1) Correct or require a county committee to correct any action taken by such county committee that is not in accordance with this part; or
(2) Require a county committee to withhold taking any action that is not in accordance with this part.
(d) No delegation of authority to a State or county committee will preclude the Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee, from determining any question arising under this part or from reversing or modifying any determination made by a State or county committee.
(e) Data furnished by participants will be used to determine eligibility for program benefits. Furnishing the data is voluntary; however, the failure to provide data could result in program benefits being withheld or denied.
(f) Subject to the availability of funds and all other eligibility provisions of this part, this part provides the terms, conditions and requirements of BCAP. In the event that CCC determines that available funds are insufficient to accommodate the demand for establishment and annual payments as well as all potential applications for matching payments for collection, harvest, storage, and transportation of eligible material, without any advance notice other than that stated here, CCC may prioritize the expenditure of program funds in favor of funding for the selection of BCAP project areas and the establishment and annual payments related to those project areas, and may make such other priorities in approvals that will, in the determination of the Deputy Administrator, advance the purposes of BCAP.
[75 FR 66234, Oct. 27, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 56951, Sept. 15, 2011; 80 FR 10573, Feb. 27, 2015]
§ 1450.2
Definitions.
(a) The definitions in part 718 of this title apply to this part and all documents issued in accordance with this part, except as otherwise provided in this section.
(b) The following definitions apply to this part:
Advanced biofuel
means fuel derived from renewable biomass other than corn kernel starch, including biofuels derived from cellulose, hemicellulose, or lignin; biofuels derived from sugar and starch (other than ethanol derived from corn kernel starch); biofuel derived from waste material, including crop residue, other vegetative waste material, animal waste, food waste, and yard waste; diesel-equivalent fuel derived from renewable biomass including vegetable oil and animal fat; biogas
(including landfill gas and sewage waste treatment gas) produced through the conversion of organic matter from renewable biomass; and butanol or other alcohols produced through the conversion of organic matter from renewable biomass; and other fuel derived from cellulosic biomass.
Agricultural land
means cropland, grassland, pastureland, rangeland, hayland, and other land on which food, fiber, or other agricultural products are produced or capable of being produced.
Agricultural residue
means crop residue from agricultural lands, including woody orchard waste.
Animal waste
means the organic animal waste of animal operations such as confined beef or dairy, poultry, or swine operations including manure, contaminated runoff, milking house waste, dead poultry, bedding, and spilled feed. Depending on the poultry system, animal waste can also include litter, wash-flush water, and waste feed.
Annual payment
means the annual payment specified in the BCAP contract for BCAP project areas that is issued to a participant for placing eligible land in BCAP.
Biobased product
means a product determined by CCC to be a commercial or industrial product (other than food or feed) that is:
(1) Composed, in whole or in significant part, of biological products, including renewable domestic agricultural materials and forestry materials; or
(2) An intermediate ingredient or feedstock.
Bioenergy
means renewable energy produced from organic matter. Organic matter may be used directly as a fuel, be processed into liquids and gases, or be a residual of processing and conversion.
Biofuel
means a fuel derived from renewable biomass.
Biomass conversion facility
means a facility that converts or proposes to convert renewable biomass into heat, power, biobased products, or advanced biofuels.
Conservation district
is as defined in part 1410 of this chapter.
Conservation plan
means a schedule and record of the participant's decisions and supporting information for treatment of a unit of land or water, and includes a schedule of operations, activities, and estimated expenditures for eligible crops and the collection or harvesting of eligible material, as appropriate, and addresses natural resource concerns including the sustainable harvesting of biomass, when appropriate, by addressing the site-specific needs of the landowner.
Contract acreage
means eligible land that is covered by a BCAP contract between the producer and CCC.
Delivery
means the point of delivery of an eligible crop or eligible material, as determined by the CCC.
Deputy Administrator
means the FSA Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, or a designee.
Dry ton
means one U.S. ton measuring 2,000 pounds. One dry ton is the amount of renewable biomass that would weigh one U.S. ton at zero percent moisture content. Woody material dry ton weight is determined in accordance with applicable American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) standards.
Eligible crop
means a crop of renewable biomass as defined in this section that is eligible for establishment payments and annual payments as specified in Subpart C of this part.
Eligible land
means agricultural and nonindustrial private forest lands on which eligible crops for establishment payments and annual payments may be grown, as specified in subpart C of this part.
Eligible material
means renewable biomass, including agricultural residue, as defined in this section that is harvested directly from the land and that is eligible for matching payments, as specified in subpart B of this part.
Eligible material owner,
for purposes of the matching payment, means a person or entity having the right to collect or harvest eligible material, who has the risk of loss in the material that is delivered to an eligible facility and who has directly or by agent delivered or intends to deliver the eligible material to a qualified biomass conversion facility, including:
(1) For eligible material harvested or collected from private lands, including cropland, the owner of the land, the operator or producer conducting farming operations on the land, or any other person designated by the owner of the land; and
(2) For eligible material harvested or collected from public lands, a person having the right to harvest or collect eligible material pursuant to a contract or permit with the US Forest Service or other appropriate Federal agency, such as a timber sale contract, stewardship contract or agreement, service contract or permit, or related applicable Federal land permit or contract, and who has submitted a copy of the permit or contract authorizing such collection to CCC.
Equivalent plan
means a plan approved by a State or other State agency or government entity that is similar to and serves the same purpose as a forest stewardship plan and has similar goals, objectives, and terms. These plans generally address natural resource concerns including the sustainable harvesting of biomass, when appropriate, by addressing the site-specific needs of the landowner.
Establishment payment
means the payment made by CCC to assist program participants in establishing the practices required for non-woody perennial crops and woody perennial crops, as specified in a producer contract under the project portion of BCAP.
Food waste
means, as determined by CCC, a material composed primarily of food items, or originating from food items, or compounds from domestic, municipal, food service operations, or commercial sources, including food processing wastes, residues, or scraps.
Forest stewardship plan
means a long-term, comprehensive, multi-resource forest management plan that is prepared by a professional resource manager and approved by the State Forester or equivalent State official. Forest stewardship plans address the following resource elements wherever present, in a manner that is compatible with landowner objectives concerning:
(1) Soil and water;
(2) Biological diversity;
(3) Range;
(4) Aesthetic quality;
(5) Recreation;
(6) Timber;
(7) Fish and wildlife;
(8) Threatened and endangered species;
(9) Forest health;
(10) Archeological, cultural and historic sites;
(11) Wetlands;
(12) Fire; and
(13) Carbon cycle.
Higher-value product
means an existing market product that is comprised principally of an eligible material or materials and, in some distinct local regions, as determined by the CCC, has an existing market as of October 27, 2010. Higher-value products may include, but are not limited to, products such as mulch, fiberboard, nursery media, lumber, or paper.
Highly erodible land
means land as determined as specified in part 12 of this title.
Indian tribe
has the same meaning as in 25 U.S.C. 450b (section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act).
Institution of higher education
has the same meaning as in 20 U.S.C. 1002(a) (section 102(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965).
Intermediate ingredient or feedstock
means an ingredient or compound made in whole or in significant part from biological products, including renewable agricultural material (including plant, animal, and marine material), or forestry material that is subsequently used to make a more complex compound or product.
Legal entity
has the same meaning as in the regulations in § 1400.3 of this chapter.
Matching payments
means those CCC payments provided for eligible material delivered to a qualified biomass conversion facility.
Native sod
means land:
(1) On which the plant cover is composed principally of native grasses, grasslike plants, forbs, or shrubs suitable for grazing and browsing; and
(2) That had never been tilled or the producer cannot substantiate that the ground has ever been tilled for the production of an annual crop as of June 18, 2008.
Nonindustrial private forest land
means, as defined in 16 U.S.C. 2103a (the Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978, as amended), rural lands with existing tree cover, or suitable for growing trees, where the land is owned by any private individual, group, association, corporation, Indian tribe, or other private legal entity.
Offer
means, unless otherwise indicated, the per-acre rental payment requested by the owner or operator in such owner's or operator's request to participate in the establishment payment and annual payment component of BCAP.
Operator
means a person who is in general control of the land enrolled in BCAP, as determined by CCC.
Participant
means a person who is participating in BCAP—either as a person who has applied for and is eligible to receive payments, has a BCAP contract, or is a project sponsor.
Payment period
means a contract period of either up to 5 years for annual and non-woody perennial crops, or up to 15 years for woody perennial crops, during which the participant receives an annual payment under the establishment payment and annual payment component of BCAP.
Person
has the same meaning as in the regulations in § 1400.3 of this chapter. In addition, for BCAP, the term “producer” means either an owner or operator of BCAP project acreage that is physically located in a BCAP project area, or a producer of an eligible crop produced on that acreage.
Producer
means, with respect to subpart B of this part, a person who had the risk of loss in the production of the material that is the subject of the BCAP payment; and with respect to subpart C of this part, an owner or operator of contract acreage that is physically located within a BCAP project area or a producer of an eligible crop produced on that acreage and who has the risk of loss in the relevant crop at the relevant period of time or who will have the risk of loss in crops required to be produced.
Project area
means a geographic area with specified boundaries submitted by a project sponsor and approved by CCC under the establishment payment and annual payment component of BCAP.
Project sponsor
means a group of producers or a biomass conversion facility who proposes a project area.
Qualified biomass conversion facility
means a biomass conversion facility that meets all the requirements for BCAP qualification, and whose facility representatives enter into a BCAP agreement with CCC.
Renewable biomass
means:
(1) Appropriate materials, pre-commercial thinnings, or invasive species from National Forest System land and U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management land that:
(i) Are by-products of preventive treatments that are removed to reduce hazardous fuels, to reduce or contain disease or insect infestation, or to restore ecosystem health;
(ii) Would not otherwise be used for higher-value products; and
(iii) Are harvested in accordance with applicable law and land management plans and the requirements for old-growth maintenance, restoration, and management direction of 16 U.S.C. 6512 (specifically, sections 102(e)(2), (3), and (4) of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 and large-tree retention provisions of subsection (f)); or
(2) Any organic matter that is available on a renewable or recurring basis from non-Federal land or land belonging to an Indian or Indian Tribe that is held in trust by the United States or subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the United States, including:
(i) Renewable plant material, including:
(A) Feed grains;
(B) Other agricultural commodities;
(C) Other plants and trees; or
(D) Algae;
(ii) Waste material, including:
(A) Crop residue;
(B) Other vegetative waste material (including wood waste and wood residues);
(C) Animal waste and byproducts (including fats, oils, greases, and manure); and
(D) Food waste and yard waste.
Socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher
means a farmer or rancher who is a member of a socially disadvantaged group. A socially disadvantaged group is a group whose members have been
subjected to racial or ethnic prejudice because of their identity as members of a group without regard to their individual qualities.
Technical assistance
means assistance in determining the eligibility of land and practices for BCAP, implementing and certifying practices, ensuring contract performance, and providing annual rental rate surveys. BCAP technical assistance may include, but is not limited to: technical expertise and services, information, and tools necessary for the conservation of natural resources on land; technical services provided directly to farmers, ranchers, and other eligible entities, such as conservation planning, technical consultation, and assistance with design and implementation of eligible practices; and technical infrastructure, including activities, processes, tools, and functions needed to support delivery of technical and program services, such as technical standards, resource inventories, training, data, technology, monitoring, compliance spot checks, and effects analyses.
Tribal government
means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group, or community, including pueblos, rancherias, colonies and any Alaska Native Village, or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to 43 U.S.C. 1601-1629h (the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act), that is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.
Violation
means an act by the participant, either intentional or unintentional, that would cause the participant to no longer be eligible to receive or retain all or a portion of BCAP payments.
Yard waste
means any renewable biomass generated from municipal or residential land, such as urban forestry materials, construction or demolition materials, trimmings from grasses and trees, or biomass removed due to invasive species or weather-related disaster, that can be separated from and has low potential (such as contamination with plastics, metals, chemicals, or other toxic compounds that cannot be removed) for the generation of toxic by-products resulting from conversion, and that otherwise cannot be recycled for other purposes (such as post-consumer waste paper).
[75 FR 66234, Oct. 27, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 56951, Sept. 15, 2011; 80 FR 10573, Feb. 27, 2015; 88 FR 1892, Jan. 11, 2023]
§ 1450.3
General.
(a) The objectives of BCAP are to:
(1) Support the establishment and production of eligible crops for conversion to bioenergy and biobased products in selected project areas; and
(2) Assist agricultural and forest landowners and operators with matching payments to support the collection, harvest, storage, and transportation costs of eligible material for use in a biomass conversion facility.
(b) A participant must implement and adhere to a conservation plan, forest stewardship plan, or equivalent plan prepared in accordance with BCAP guidelines, as established and determined by CCC. A conservation plan, forest stewardship plan, or equivalent plan for contract acreage must be implemented by a participant and must be approved by the conservation district in which the lands are located, or, in the case of Federal lands, the appropriate approval authority of jurisdiction. If the conservation district declines to review the conservation plan, forest stewardship plan, or equivalent plan, the provider of technical assistance may take such further action as is needed to account for lack of such review.
(c) Agricultural and forest landowners and operators must comply with any applicable existing conservation plan, forest stewardship plan, or equivalent plan and all other applicable laws, regulations, or Executive Orders for any removal of eligible material for use in a biomass conversion facility to receive matching payments.
(d) Except as otherwise provided in this part, a participant may receive, in addition to any payments under this part, financial assistance, rental or easement payments, tax benefits, or other payments from a State or a private organization in return for enrolling lands in BCAP, without any commensurate reduction in BCAP payments.
§ 1450.4
Violations.
(a)(1) If a participant fails to carry out the terms and conditions of a BCAP contract, CCC may terminate the BCAP contract.
(2) If the BCAP contract is terminated by CCC in accordance with this paragraph:
(i) The participant will forfeit all rights to further payments under the contract and must refund all payments previously received, plus interest; and
(ii) The participant must pay liquidated damages to CCC in an amount as specified in the contract.
(b) CCC may reduce a demand for a refund under this section to the extent CCC determines that such relief would be appropriate and would not deter the accomplishment of the purposes of BCAP.
§ 1450.5
Performance based on advice or action of USDA.
(a) The provisions of § 718.303 of this title relating to performance based on the action or advice of an authorized representative of USDA apply to this part, and may be considered as a basis to provide relief to persons subject to sanctions under this part to the extent that relief is otherwise permitted by this part.
(b) [Reserved]
[75 FR 66234, Oct. 27, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 56951, Sept. 15, 2011]
§ 1450.6
Access to land.
(a) For purposes related to this program, the participant must upon request provide any representative of USDA, or designee thereof, with access to land that is:
(1) The subject of an application for a contract under this part; or
(2) Under contract or otherwise subject to this part.
(b) For land identified in paragraph (a) of this section, the participant must provide such representatives or designees with access to examine records for the land to determine land classification, eligibility, or for other purposes, and to determine whether the participant is in compliance with the terms and conditions of the BCAP contract.
§ 1450.7
Division of payments and provisions about tenants and sharecroppers.
(a) Payments received under this part will be divided as specified in the applicable contract. CCC may refuse to enter into a contract when there is a disagreement among persons or legal entities seeking enrollment as to a person's or legal entity's eligibility to participate in the contract as a tenant or sharecropper, and there is insufficient evidence, as determined by CCC, to indicate whether the person or legal entity seeking participation as a tenant or sharecropper has an interest in the acreage offered for enrollment in the BCAP.
(b) CCC may remove an operator or tenant from a BCAP contract when:
(1) The operator or tenant requests in writing to be removed from the BCAP contract;
(2) The operator or tenant files for bankruptcy and the trustee or debtor in possession fails to affirm the contract, to the extent permitted by applicable bankruptcy laws;
(3) The operator or tenant dies during the contract period and the administrator of the estate fails to succeed to the contract within a period of time determined appropriate by CCC; or
(4) A court of competent jurisdiction orders the removal of the operator or tenant from the BCAP contract and such order is received by CCC.
(c) Tenants who fail to maintain tenancy on the acreage under contract for any reason may be removed from a contract by CCC.
§ 1450.8
Payments not subject to claims.
(a) Subject to part 1403 of this chapter, any payment or portion of the payment due any person or legal entity under this part will be allowed without regard to questions of title under State law, and without regard to any claim or lien in favor of any creditor, except agencies of the U.S. Government.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1450.9
Appeals.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a person or legal entity applying for participation may appeal or request reconsideration of an
adverse determination in accordance with the administrative appeal regulations at parts 11 and 780 of this title.
(b) Determinations by the Natural Resources Conservation Service, U.S. Forest Service, Department of Interior, Bureau of Land Management, or other authorized technical assistance provider may be appealed in accordance with procedures established in part 614 of this title or otherwise established by the respective Agency.
[75 FR 66234, Oct. 27, 2010. Redesignated and amended at 80 FR 10573, Feb. 27, 2015]
§ 1450.10
Scheme or device.
(a) If CCC determines that a person or legal entity has employed a scheme or device to defeat the purposes of this part, or any part, of any USDA program, payment otherwise due or paid such person or legal entity during the applicable period may be required to be refunded, with interest calculated from the date of disbursement of the funds by CCC, as determined appropriate by CCC.
(b) A scheme or device includes, but is not limited to, coercion, fraud, misrepresentation, depriving any other person or legal entity of any payments, or obtaining a payment that otherwise would not be payable.
(c) A new owner or operator or tenant of land subject to this part who succeeds to the contract responsibilities must report in writing to CCC any interest of any kind in the land subject to this part that is retained by a previous participant. Such interest may include a present, future, or conditional interest, reversionary interest, or any option, future or present, on such land, and any interest of any lender in such land where the lender has, will, or can legally obtain, a right of occupancy to such land or an interest in the equity in such land other than an interest in the appreciation in the value of such land occurring after the loan was made. Failure to fully disclose such interest will be considered a scheme or device under this section.
[75 FR 66234, Oct. 27, 2010. Redesignated at 80 FR 10573, Feb. 27, 2015]
§ 1450.11
Filing of false claims.
(a) If CCC determines that any participant has knowingly supplied false information or has knowingly filed a false claim, such participant will be ineligible for payments under this part with respect to the fiscal year in which the false information or claim was filed and the contract may be terminated, in which case CCC may demand a full refund of all prior payments.
(b) False information or false claims include, but are not limited to, claims for payment for practices that do not comply with the conservation plan, forest stewardship plan, or equivalent plan. Any amounts paid under these circumstances must be refunded to CCC, together with interest as determined by CCC, and any amounts otherwise due the participant will be withheld.
(c) The remedies provided for in this section will be in addition to any other remedy available to CCC and in addition to any criminal penalty or any other remedy available to the United States.
[75 FR 66234, Oct. 27, 2010. Redesignated at 80 FR 10573, Feb. 27, 2015]
§ 1450.12
Miscellaneous.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, in the case of death, incompetency, or disappearance of any participant, any payments due under this part may be paid to the participant's successor(s) in accordance with part 707 of this title.
(b) Unless otherwise specified in this part, payments under this part will be subject to the compliance requirements of part 12 of this title concerning highly erodible land and wetland conservation and payments.
(c) Any remedies permitted CCC under this part will be in addition to any other remedy, including, but not limited to, criminal remedies or actions for damages in favor of CCC, or the United States as may be permitted by law.
(d) Absent a scheme or device to defeat the purposes of BCAP, when an owner loses control of BCAP acreage enrolled under subpart C of this part due to foreclosure and the new owner chooses not to continue the contract in
accordance with § 1450.215 refunds will not be required from any participant on the contract to the extent that the Deputy Administrator determines that forgiving such repayment is appropriate in order to provide fair and equitable treatment.
[75 FR 66234, Oct. 27, 2010. Redesignated at 80 FR 10573, Feb. 27, 2015]

# Subpart B—Matching Payments
§ 1450.100
General.
(a) A person or legal entity with the right to collect or harvest eligible material for the sale and delivery of such eligible material to a qualified biomass conversion facility, may be eligible for payment under the provisions of this subpart.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1450.101
Qualified biomass conversion facility.
(a) To be considered a qualified biomass conversion facility, a biomass conversion facility must enter into an agreement with CCC and must:
(1) Meet all applicable regulatory and permitting requirements by applicable Federal, State, or local authorities;
(2) Agree in writing to:
(i) Maintain accurate records of all eligible material purchases and related documents regardless of whether matching payments will be sought by the seller; and
(ii) Make available at one place and at all reasonable times for examination by representatives of USDA, all books, papers, records, contracts, scale tickets, settlement sheets, invoices, written price quotations, or other documents related to BCAP for not less than 3 years after the date that eligible material was delivered to the qualified biomass conversion facility;
(iii) Clearly indicate the actual tonnage delivered on the scale ticket or equivalent to be provided to the eligible material owner;
(iv) Calculate a total dry ton weight equivalent of the actual tonnage delivered and provide that measurement to the eligible material owner;
(v) Use commercial weight scales that are certified for accuracy by applicable State or local authorities and accurate moisture measurement equipment to determine the dry ton weight equivalent of actual tonnage delivered. Woody material dry ton weight must be determined in accordance with applicable ASTM standards; and
(vi) Purchase eligible material at a fair market price that is consistent with similar products, regardless of whether or not the seller has applied for or receives a matching payment authorized by this subpart or if the seller and purchaser are related entities.
(b) For a qualified biomass conversion facility, CCC can:
(1) Periodically inform the public that payments may be available for deliveries of eligible material to such qualified biomass conversion facility;
(2) Maintain a listing of qualified biomass conversion facilities for general public access and distribution that may include general information about the facility and its eligible material needs; and
(3) Suspend, terminate, or take other actions as appropriate when CCC determines a qualified biomass conversion facility fails to comply with the agreement.
[75 FR 66234, Oct. 27, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 10573, Feb. 27, 2015]
§ 1450.102
Eligible material owner.
(a) In order to be eligible for a payment under this subpart, a person or legal entity must:
(1) Be a producer of an eligible crop that is produced on contract acreage authorized by subpart C of this part; or
(2) Have the right to collect or harvest eligible material, regardless of whether the eligible material is produced on contract acreage authorized by subpart C of this part, and such person may only receive payment if the risk of loss for the material transferred to that person occurred prior to the time the payment is made that will be used to determine the matching payment that is requested under this subpart; and
(3) Certify that the eligible material for which a payment may be issued as specified in § 1450.106 has been harvested according to a conservation plan, forest stewardship plan, or equivalent plan, and, if woody eligible material collected or harvested on land other than contract acreage, the woody
material is a by-product of preventative treatments that was removed to reduce hazardous fuels or to reduce or contain disease or insect infestation.
(b) A qualified biomass conversion facility that meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section may be considered an eligible material owner if it otherwise meets the definition in this part.
[75 FR 66234, Oct. 27, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 56951, Sept. 15, 2011; 80 FR 10573, Feb. 27, 2015]
§ 1450.103
Eligible material for payments.
(a) Except for the exclusions specified in paragraph (b) of this section, in order to qualify for matching payments, eligible material must meet the following requirements:
(1) Eligible material must be collected or harvested by the eligible material owner:
(i) Directly from:
(A) National Forest System land, Bureau of Land Management land;
(B) Non-Federal land; or
(C) Land belonging to an Indian or Indian tribe that is held in trust by the United States or subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the United States;
(ii) Consistent with a conservation plan, forest stewardship plan, or plan that CCC determined to be an equivalent plan, that provides the following:
(A) The purpose of the harvest of the eligible material;
(B) The expected volume of the harvest;
(C) The total number of acres to be harvested;
(D) The name of the eligible material owner(s); and
(E) Any additional information, as determined by CCC; and
(iii) Consistent with Executive Order 13112, “Invasive Species. ”
(2) Woody eligible material produced on land other than contract acreage must be:
(i) By-products of preventative treatments that were removed to reduce hazardous fuels or to reduce or contain disease or insect infestation; and
(ii) If harvested from Federal lands then done so in accordance with the requirements for old-growth maintenance, restoration, and management direction provided by 16 U.S.C. 6512 for Federal lands; and
(3) Eligible material must be delivered to a qualified biomass conversion facility (as specified in § 1450.101 and other provisions of these regulations).
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, payments under this subpart are not authorized for:
(1) Any eligible material delivered before May 28, 2015;
(2) Any eligible material for which payment from a biomass conversion facility was received before the application for payment under this subpart is received and approved by the FSA county office, as specified in § 1450.104;
(3) Material that is whole grain from any crop that is eligible to receive payments under title I of the Agricultural Act of 2014 or an amendment made by that title, including, but not limited to, barley, corn, grain sorghum, oats, rice, or wheat; honey; mohair; certain oilseeds such as canola, crambe, flaxseed, mustard seed, rapeseed, safflower seed, soybeans, sesame seed, and sunflower seeds; peanuts; pulse; chickpeas, lentils, and dry peas; dairy products; sugar; and wool and cotton boll fiber;
(4) Animal waste and by-products of animal waste including fats, oil, grease, and manure;
(5) Food waste and yard waste;
(6) Algae;
(7) Woody eligible material that is not a by-product of a preventative treatment to reduce hazardous fuel or to reduce or contain disease or insect infestation;
(8) Any woody eligible material collected or harvested outside contract acreage that would otherwise be used for higher-value products;
(9) Any otherwise eligible material collected or harvested outside contract acreage that, after delivery to a biomass conversion facility, its campus, or its affiliated facilities, must be separated from an eligible material used for a higher-value market product in order to be used for heat, power, biobased products, research, or advanced biofuels; or
(10) Bagasse.
(c) For eligible woody material harvested or collected from public lands, a
person having the right to harvest or collect eligible material pursuant to a contract or permit with the U.S. Forest Service or other appropriate Federal agency will not be eligible for additional haul costs unless the facility is a further distance than specified in the contract requirement or the material was not a mandatory removal item from Federal lands.
[75 FR 66234, Oct. 27, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 10573, Feb. 27, 2015]
§ 1450.104
Signup.
(a) Applications for participation and requests for payments under this subpart will be accepted as specified in the FSA announcement(s) in a given fiscal year through the end of the announced sign up period on a continuous basis, subject to the availability of funds.
(b) An eligible material owner must apply to participate in the matching payments component of BCAP before delivery is made to a qualified biomass conversion facility and before payment for the eligible material is received from the qualified biomass conversion facility. The application must be submitted to the FSA county office servicing the tracts of land where the collection and harvest will occur and must be approved by CCC, before any delivery is made to or payment is made by the qualified biomass conversion facility for the eligible material.
(c) Applications must include the following:
(1) Based on information obtained from contracts, agreements, or binding letters of intent:
(i) An estimate of the total dry tons of eligible material expected to be sold to the qualified biomass conversion facility;
(ii) The type(s) of eligible material that is expected to be sold;
(iii) The name of the qualified biomass conversion facility that will purchase the eligible material;
(iv) The expected, fair market, per dry ton payment rate the owner plans to receive for the delivery of the eligible material; and
(v) The date or dates the eligible material is expected to be delivered to the qualified biomass conversion facility.
(2) A new or amended conservation plan, forest stewardship plan, or equivalent plan, as specified in § 1450.103.
(d) Eligible material owners who deliver eligible material to more than one qualified biomass conversion facility must submit separate applications for each facility to which eligible material will be delivered.
(e) After delivery, eligible material owners must notify CCC and request the payment. Payments will be disbursed only after delivery is verified by CCC.
(f) Information that must be submitted to CCC in order to request payments includes settlement, summary, or other acceptable data that provide:
(1) Total actual tonnage delivered and a total dry weight tonnage equivalent amount determined by the qualified biomass conversion facility using standard moisture determinations applicable to the eligible material (Woody material dry ton weight is determined in accordance with applicable ASTM standards);
(2) Total payment received, including the per dry-ton payment rate(s) matched with actual and dry weight tonnage delivered; and
(3) The qualified biomass conversion facility's certification as to the authenticity of the information.
[75 FR 66234, Oct. 27, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 10573, Feb. 27, 2015]
§ 1450.105
Obligations of participant.
(a) All participants whose payment application was approved must agree to:
(1) Carry out and certify compliance with the terms and conditions of the payment application including adherence to a conservation plan, forest stewardship plan, or equivalent plan, as appropriate; and
(2) Be jointly and severally responsible, if the participant has a share of the payment greater than zero, with other contract participants for compliance with the provisions of such contract and the provisions of this part, and for any refunds or payment adjustments that may be required for violations of any of the terms and conditions of the BCAP contract and this part.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1450.106
Payments.
(a) Payments under this subpart will be made for a term not to exceed 2 years, commencing on the date that CCC issues the first payment under this subpart to the participant. The 2-year eligibility period for each participant runs from the date that the participant is first issued any matching payment from CCC, regardless of payment for subsequent deliveries to any other biomass conversion facility. The eligibility period will not include any BCAP matching payments received prior to May 28, 2015.
(b) Payments under this subpart will be paid at a rate of $1 for each $1 per dry ton provided by the qualified biomass conversion facility for the market-based sale of eligible material in an amount up to $20 per dry ton.
[75 FR 66234, Oct. 27, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 10574, Feb. 27, 2015]

# Subpart C—Establishment Payments and Annual Payments
§ 1450.200
General.
(a) As provided in this subpart, establishment payments and annual payments may be provided by CCC to producers of eligible crops within a project area.
(b) Eligible crops include renewable biomass, as defined § 1450.2, excluding:
(1) Any crop that is eligible to receive payments under title I of the Agricultural Act of 2014 or an amendment made by that title, including, but not limited to, barley, corn, grain sorghum, oats, rice, or wheat; honey; mohair; certain oilseeds such as canola, crambe, flaxseed, mustard seed, rapeseed, safflower seed, soybeans, sesame seed, and sunflower seeds; peanuts; pulse; chickpeas, lentils, and dry peas; dairy products; sugar; and wool and cotton boll fiber; and
(2) Any plant that CCC has determined to be either a noxious weed or an invasive species. With respect to noxious weeds and invasive species, a list of such plants will be available in the FSA county office.
[75 FR 66234, Oct. 27, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 10574, Feb. 27, 2015]
§ 1450.201
Project area proposal submission requirements.
(a) To be considered for selection as a project area, a project sponsor must submit a proposal to CCC that includes, at a minimum:
(1) A description of the sources of renewable biomass, eligible land, and eligible crops that may be enrolled within the proposed project area;
(2) A letter of commitment from a biomass conversion facility stating that the facility will use, for BCAP purposes, eligible crops intended to be produced in the proposed project area;
(3) Information demonstrating that the biomass conversion facility has or will have sufficient equity available to operate if the facility is not operational at the time the project area proposal is submitted; and
(4) Any other information that gives CCC a reasonable assurance that the biomass conversion facility will be in operation in a timely manner so that it will use the eligible crops, as determined by CCC.
(b) The project area description required in paragraph (a) of this section needs to specify geographic boundaries and be described in definite terms such as acres, watershed boundaries, mapped longitude and latitude coordinates, or counties.
(c) The project area needs to be physically located near a biomass conversion facility or facilities, as determined by CCC.
(d) Project area proposals may limit the nature and types of eligible crops to be established within a project area.
[75 FR 66234, Oct. 27, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 10574, Feb. 27, 2015]
§ 1450.202
Project area selection criteria.
(a) In selecting project areas, CCC will consider:
(1) The dry tons of the eligible crops proposed to be produced in the proposed project area and the probability that such crops will be used for BCAP purposes;
(2) The dry tons of renewable biomass projected to be available from sources other than the eligible crops grown on contract acres;
(3) The anticipated economic impact in the proposed project area;
(4) The opportunity for producers and local investors to participate in the ownership of the biomass conversion facility in the proposed project area;
(5) The participation rate by beginning or socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers;
(6) The impact on soil, water, and related resources;
(7) The variety in biomass production approaches within a project area, including agronomic conditions, harvest and postharvest practices, and monoculture and polyculture crop mixes;
(8) The range of eligible crops among project areas;
(9) Status as an existing project area that has received funding under this subpart and the continuation of funding such project areas to advance the maturity of such project areas; and
(10) Any other necessary additional information, as determined by CCC.
(b) [Reserved]
[75 FR 66234, Oct. 27, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 10574, Feb. 27, 2015]
§ 1450.203
Eligible persons and legal entities.
(a) In order to be eligible to enter into a BCAP contract for this subpart, a person or legal entity must be an owner, operator, or tenant of eligible land within a project area, as defined in § 1450.204 and be the person or entity with the ability to perform under the terms of the contract.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1450.204
Eligible land.
(a) For the purposes of this subpart, eligible land must be physically and legally capable of producing an eligible crop and must be:
(1) Agricultural land; or
(2) Nonindustrial private forest land.
(b) For the purposes of this subpart, eligible land is not:
(1) Federal- or State-owned land, including land owned by local governments or municipalities;
(2) Land that is native sod;
(3) Land enrolled in the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) as specified in part 1410 of this chapter for which either:
(i) The enrollment is not expiring in the current fiscal year; or
(ii) A CRP payment for this land has been received in the current fiscal year; or
(4) Land enrolled in the Agricultural Conservation Easement Program (ACEP) for which either:
(i) The enrollment is not expiring in the current fiscal year; or
(ii) An ACEP payment for this land has been received in the current fiscal year.
[75 FR 66234, Oct. 27, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 10575, Feb. 27, 2015]
§ 1450.205
Duration of contracts.
(a) Contracts under this subpart will be for a term of up to:
(1) 5 years for annual and non-woody perennial crops; and
(2) 15 years for woody perennial crops.
(b) The establishment time period may vary due to: Type of crop, agronomic conditions (for example, establishment time frame, winter hardiness), and other factors.
§ 1450.206
Obligations of participant.
(a) All participants subject to a BCAP contract must:
(1) Carry out the terms and conditions of the contract;
(2) Make available to CCC or to an institution of higher education or other entity designated by CCC, such information as CCC determines to be appropriate to promote the production of eligible crops and the development of renewable biomass conversion technology;
(3) Comply with the highly erodible land and wetland conservation requirements of part 12 of this title;
(4) Implement a:
(i) Conservation plan,
(ii) Forest stewardship plan, or
(iii) Equivalent plan.
(5) Implement the conservation plan, forest stewardship plan, or equivalent plan which is part of such contract, in accordance with the schedule of dates included in such conservation plan, forest stewardship plan, or equivalent plan, unless CCC determines that the participant cannot fully implement the conservation plan, forest stewardship plan, or equivalent plan for reasons beyond the producer's control and CCC
and the participant agree to a modified plan.
(6) Demonstrate compliance with the conservation plan, forest stewardship plan, or equivalent plan through required self-certification subject to compliance spot checks, as determined by CCC.
(7) Establish temporary vegetative cover either within the timeframes required by the conservation plan, forest stewardship plan, or equivalent plan or as determined by the Deputy Administrator, if the eligible crops cannot be timely established; and
(8) If the participant has a share of the payment greater than zero, be jointly and severally responsible with the other contract participants for compliance with the provisions of such contract and the provisions of this part, and for any refunds or payment adjustments that may be required for violations of any of the terms and conditions of the contract and this part.
(b) Payments may cease and producers may be subject to contract termination for failure to establish eligible crops.
(c) A contract will not be terminated for failure by the participant to establish an approved cover on the land if, as determined by CCC:
(1) The failure to plant or establish such cover was due to a natural disaster such as excessive rainfall, flooding, or drought; and
(2) The participant establishes the approved cover as soon as practicable after the wet or drought conditions that prevented the establishment of such cover subside.
[75 FR 66234, Oct. 27, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 56951, Sept. 15, 2011]
§ 1450.207
Conservation plan, forest stewardship plan, or equivalent plan.
(a) The producer must implement a conservation plan, forest stewardship plan, or equivalent plan that complies with CCC guidelines and is approved by the appropriate conservation district for the land to be entered in BCAP. If the conservation district declines to review the conservation plan, forest stewardship plan, or equivalent plan, or disapproves the conservation plan, forest stewardship plan, or equivalent plan, such approval may be waived by CCC.
(b) The practices and management activities included in a conservation plan, forest stewardship plan, or equivalent plan, and agreed to by the producer, must be implemented in a cost-effective manner that meets BCAP purposes as determined by CCC.
(c) If applicable, a tree planting plan must be developed and included in the conservation plan, forest stewardship plan, or equivalent plan. Such tree planting plan may allow a reasonable time to complete plantings, as determined by CCC.
(d) Each conservation plan, forest stewardship plan, or equivalent plan, and any revision of the plan, will be subject to approval by CCC.
1450.208
Eligible practices.
(a) Eligible practices are those practices specified in the conservation plan, forest stewardship plan, or equivalent plan that meet all standards needed to cost-effectively establish:
(1) Annual crops;
(2) Non-woody perennial crops; and
(3) Woody perennial crops.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1450.209
Signup.
(a) Offers for contracts may be submitted on a continuous basis to CCC as determined by the Deputy Administrator.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1450.210
Acceptability of offers.
(a) Acceptance or rejection of any contract offered will be at the sole discretion of CCC, and offers may be rejected for any reason as determined appropriate to accomplish the purposes of BCAP.
(b) An offer to enroll land in BCAP will be irrevocable for such period as is determined and announced by CCC. The producer will be liable to CCC for liquidated damages if the applicant revokes an offer during the period in which the offer is irrevocable as determined by CCC. CCC may waive payment of such liquidated damages if CCC determines that the assessment of such damages, in a particular case, is not in the best interest of CCC and BCAP.
§ 1450.211
BCAP contract.
(a) In order to enroll land in BCAP, the participant must enter into a contract with CCC.
(b) The contract is comprised of:
(1) The terms and conditions for participation in BCAP;
(2) The conservation plan, forest stewardship plan, or equivalent plan; and
(3) Any other materials or agreements determined necessary by CCC.
(c) In order to enter into a contract, the producer must submit an offer to participate as specified in § 1450.209;
(d) The contract must, within the dates established by CCC, be signed by:
(1) The producer; and
(2) The owners of the eligible land to be placed in the BCAP and other eligible participants, if applicable.
(e) The Deputy Administrator is authorized to approve contracts on behalf of CCC.
(f) CCC will honor contracts even in the event that a project area biomass conversion facility does not become fully or partially operational.
(g) Contracts may be terminated by CCC before the full term of the contract has expired if:
(1) The owner loses control of or transfers all or part of the acreage under contract and the new owner does not wish to continue the contract;
(2) The participant voluntarily requests in writing to terminate the contract and obtains the approval of CCC according to terms and conditions as determined by CCC;
(3) The participant is not in compliance with the terms and conditions of the contract;
(4) The BCAP practice fails or is not established after a certain time period, as determined by CCC, and the cost of restoring or establishing the practice outweighs the benefits received from the restoration or establishment;
(5) The contract was approved based on erroneous eligibility determinations; or
(6) CCC determines that such a termination is needed in the public interest.
(h) Except as allowed and approved by CCC where the new owner of land enrolled in BCAP is a Federal agency that agrees to abide by the terms and conditions of the terminated contract, the participant in a contract that has been terminated must refund all or part of the payments made with respect to the contract plus interest, as determined by CCC, and must pay liquidated damages as provided for in the contract and this part. CCC may permit the amount(s) to be repaid to be reduced to the extent that such a reduction will not impair the purposes of BCAP. Further, a refund of all payments need not be required from a participant who is otherwise in full compliance with the contract when the land is purchased by or for the United States, as determined appropriate by CCC.
[75 FR 66234, Oct. 27, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 10575, Feb. 27, 2015]
§ 1450.212
Establishment payments.
(a) Establishment payments will be made available upon a determination by CCC that an eligible practice, or an identifiable portion of a practice, has been established in compliance with the appropriate standards and specifications.
(b) Except as otherwise provided for in this part, such payments will be made only for the cost-effective establishment or installation of an eligible practice, as determined by CCC.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, such payments will not be made to the same owner or operator on the same acreage for any eligible practices that have been previously established, or for which such owner or operator has received establishment assistance from any Federal agency.
(d) Establishment payments may be authorized for the replacement or restoration of practices on land for which assistance has been previously allowed under BCAP, only if the failure of the original practice was due to reasons beyond the control of the participant, as determined by CCC.
(e) In addition, CCC may make partial payments when the participant completes identifiable components of the contract. CCC may make supplemental establishment payments, if necessary.
[75 FR 66234, Oct. 27, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 10575, Feb. 27, 2015]
§ 1450.213
Levels and rates for establishment payments.
(a) CCC will pay not more than 50 percent of the actual or average cost (whichever is lower) of establishing non-woody perennial crops and woody perennial crops specified in the conservation plan, forest stewardship plan, or equivalent plan, not to exceed $500 per acre. For socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers, as defined in part 718 of this title, establishment payments may not exceed $750 per acre.
(b) The average cost of performing a practice will be determined by CCC based on recommendations from the State Technical Committee. Such cost may be the average cost in a State, a county, or a part of a State or county, as determined by CCC. The average cost as determined by CCC will be used for payment purposes, if it is less than the actual cost for an individual participant.
(c) Except as otherwise provided for in this part, a participant may receive, in addition to any payment under this part, establishment assistance, rental payments, or tax benefits from a State or a private organization in return for enrolling lands in BCAP without a commensurate reduction in BCAP establishment payments.
[75 FR 66234, Oct. 27, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 10575, Feb. 27, 2015]
§ 1450.214
Annual payments.
(a) Annual payments will be made in such amount and in accordance with such time schedule as may be agreed upon and specified in the BCAP contract.
(b) Based on the regulations in § 1410.42 of this chapter and as determined by CCC, annual payments include a payment based on all or a percentage of:
(1) A weighted average soil rental rate for cropland;
(2) The applicable marginal pastureland rental rate for all other land except for nonindustrial private forest land;
(3) For forest land, the average county rental rate for cropland as adjusted for forest land productivity for nonindustrial private forest land; and
(4) Any incentive payment as determined by CCC.
(c) The annual payment will be divided among the participants on a single contract as agreed to in such contract, as determined by CCC.
(d) A participant that has an established eligible crop and is therefore not eligible for establishment payments under § 1450.212 may be eligible for annual payments under the provisions of this section.
(e) In the case of a contract succession, annual payments will be divided between the predecessor and the successor participants as agreed to among the participants and approved by CCC. If there is no agreement among the participants, annual payments will be divided in such manner deemed appropriate by the Deputy Administrator and such distribution may be prorated based on the actual days of ownership of the property by each party.
(f) Annual payments will be reduced, as determined by CCC:
(1) By a percentage of the sum of the sale price and payments under subpart B of this part for the crop collected or harvested from the contract acreage as follows:
(i) By 1 percent if the eligible crop is delivered to a biomass conversion facility for conversion to cellulosic biofuels as defined by 40 CFR 80.1401;
(ii) By 10 percent if the eligible crop is delivered to a biomass conversion facility for conversion to advanced biofuels;
(iii) By 25 percent if the eligible crop is delivered to a biomass conversion facility for conversion to heat, power, or biobased products;
(iv) By 100 percent if the eligible crop is used for a purpose other than conversion to heat, power, biobased products, or advanced biofuels;
(2) If the producer violates a term of the contract; or
(3) In other circumstances deemed necessary or appropriate to carry out BCAP.
§ 1450.215
Transfer of land.
(a)(1) If a new owner or operator purchases or obtains the right and interest in, or right to occupancy of, land subject to a BCAP contract, such new owner or operator, upon the approval
of CCC, may become a participant to a new BCAP contract with CCC for the transferred land.
(2) For the transferred land, if the new owner or operator becomes a successor to the existing BCAP contract, the new owner or operator will assume all obligations of the BCAP contract of the previous participant.
(3) If the new owner or operator is approved as a successor to a BCAP contract with CCC, then, except as otherwise determined by the Deputy Administrator:
(i) Establishment payments will be made to the past or present participant who established the practice; and
(ii) Annual payments to be paid during the fiscal year when the land was transferred will be divided between the new participant and the previous participant in the manner specified in § 1450.214(c).
(b) If a participant transfers all or part of the right and interest in, or right to occupancy of, land subject to a BCAP contract and the new owner or operator does not become a successor to such contract within 60 days of such transfer, or such other time as CCC determines to be appropriate, such contract will be terminated with respect to the affected portion of such land, and the original participant:
(1) Forfeits all rights to any future payments for that acreage;
(2) Must refund all previous payments received under the contract by the participant or prior participants, plus interest, except as otherwise specified by CCC. The provisions of § 1450.211(g) will apply.
(c) Federal agencies acquiring property, by foreclosure or otherwise, that contains BCAP contract acreage cannot be a party to the BCAP contract by succession. However, through an addendum to the BCAP contract, if the current operator of the property is one of the BCAP contract participants, the BCAP contract may remain in effect and, as permitted by CCC, such operator may continue to receive payments under such contract if CCC determines that such allowance is in the public interest and:
(1) The property is maintained in accordance with the terms of the contract;
(2) Such operator continues to be the operator of the property; and
(3) Ownership of the property remains with such Federal agency.
[75 FR 66234, Oct. 27, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 10575, Feb. 27, 2015]
Pt. 1455

# PART 1455—VOLUNTARY PUBLIC ACCESS AND HABITAT INCENTIVE PROGRAM
Sec.
1455.1
Purpose and administration.
1455.2
Definitions.
1455.10
Eligible grant applicants.
1455.11
Application procedure.
1455.20
Criteria for grant selection.
1455.21
Additional responsibilities of grantee.
1455.30
Reporting requirements.
1455.31
Miscellaneous.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 714b and 714c; 16 U.S.C. 3839.

# Source:
75 FR 39140, July 8, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1455.1
Purpose and administration.
(a) The purpose of this part is to specify requirements and definitions for the Voluntary Public Access and Habitat Incentive Program (VPA-HIP).
(b) VPA-HIP provides, within funding limits, grants to State and tribal governments to encourage owners and operators of privately-held farm, ranch, and forest land to voluntarily make that land available for access by the public for wildlife-dependent recreation, including hunting and fishing under programs administered by State and tribal governments. VPA-HIP is not an entitlement program and no grant will be made unless the application is acceptable to the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC). CCC may reject a application for any reason deemed sufficient by CCC.
(c) The regulations in this part are administered under the general supervision and direction of the Chief, Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS).
[75 FR 39140, July 8, 2010, as amended at 79 FR 44641, Aug. 1, 2014]
§ 1455.2
Definitions.
(a) The definitions in part 718 of this chapter apply to this part and all documents issued in accordance with this
part, except as otherwise provided in this section.
(b) The following definitions apply to this part:
Appropriate wildlife habitat
means habitat that is suitable or proper, as determined by the applicable State or tribal government, to support fish and wildlife populations in the area.
Farm land
means the land that meets definition of “farmland” in § 718.2 of this title.
Forest land
means land at least 120 feet wide and 1 acre in size with at least 10 percent cover (or equivalent stocking) by live trees of any size, including land that formerly had such tree cover and that will be naturally or artificially regenerated. Forest land includes transition zones, such as areas between forest and nonforest lands that have at least 10 percent cover (or equivalent stocking) with live trees and forest areas adjacent to urban and built-up lands. Roadside, streamside, and shelterbelt strips of trees must have a crown width of at least 120 feet and continuous length of at least 363 feet to qualify as forest land. Unimproved roads and trails, streams, and clearings in forest areas are classified as forest if they are less than 120 feet wide or an acre in size. Tree-covered areas in agricultural production settings, such as fruit orchards, or tree-covered areas in urban settings, such as city parks, are not considered forest land.
Legal entity
means any entity created under Federal or State law, excluding: (a) a local, State or Federal government or political subdivision or agency of such government; and (b) a Tribal government.
Privately-held land
means farm, ranch, or forest land that is owned or operated by a person or legal entity.
Ranch land
means land that meets the definition of “farmland.”
State
or
State government
means any State or local government, including State, city, town, or county government.
Tribal government
means any Federally-recognized Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group, or community, including pueblos, rancherias, colonies and any Alaska Native Village, or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601-1629h), which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.
Wildlife-dependent recreation
means a land use involving hunting, fishing, wildlife-observation, photography, environmental education and interpretation, or other activities as determined by CCC.
[75 FR 39140, July 8, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 19009, Apr. 9, 2015]
§ 1455.10
Eligible grant applicants.
(a) A State or Tribal government may apply for a VPA-HIP grant.
(b) Any applications received by an individual or entity that is not a State or tribal government will not be considered.
§ 1455.11
Application procedure.
(a)
Announcement of Program Funding (APF).
The CCC will issue periodic APFs for VPA-HIP on
www.grants.gov
subject to available funding. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable APF, applicants must file an original and one hard copy of the required forms and an application.
(b)
Single application.
A State or tribal government must include all proposed activity under a single application per APF review period. Multiple applications from an applicant during a single APF period will not be considered. The applicant is the individual State or Tribe; any application from any unit of the State or tribal government must be coordinated for a single submission of one application from the State or Tribe.
(c)
Incomplete applications.
Incomplete applications will not be considered for funding. However, incomplete applications may be returned, and may be resubmitted, if time permits.
(d)
Providing data.
Data furnished by grant applicants will be used to determine eligibility for the VPA-HIP benefits. Furnishing the data is voluntary; however, the failure to provide data could result in program benefits being withheld or denied.
(e)
Required forms.
The following forms must be completed, signed, and
submitted as part of the application; other forms may be required, as specified in the applicable APF:
(1) Application for Federal Assistance;
(2) Budget Information—Non-Construction Programs; and
(3) Assurances—Non-Construction Programs.
(f)
Application.
Each application must contain the following elements; additional required elements may be specified in the applicable APF:
(1) Title page;
(2) Table of contents;
(3) Executive summary, which includes;
(i)
Activities.
Provide a summary of the application that briefly describes activities proposed to be funded under the grant.
(ii)
Objectives, funding, performance, and other resources.
Include objectives and tasks to be accomplished, the amount of funding requested, how the work will be performed, whether organizational staff, consultants or contractors will be used, and whether other resources will be used;
(4) Eligibility certification that certifies that the applicant is a State or tribal government and the individual submitting the application is acting in a representative capacity on behalf of the State or tribal government;
(5) Application narrative that must include, but is not limited to, the following:
(i)
Project title.
The title of the proposed project must be brief (not to exceed 75 characters) yet describe the essentials of the project.
(ii)
Information sheet.
A separate one-page information sheet listing each of the evaluation criteria referenced in the APF, followed by the page numbers of all relevant material and documentation contained in the application that address or support the criteria.
(iii)
Objectives of the project.
This section must include the following:
(A) A description of how the VPA-HIP funding will be used to encourage public access to private farm, ranch, and forest land for hunting, fishing, and other recreational purposes;
(B) A description of the methods that will be used to achieve the provisions of paragraph (f)(5)(iii)(A) of this section;
(C) A description of how and to what extent the proposed program will meet with widespread acceptance among landowners;
(D) A detailed description of how and to what extent the land enrolled will have appropriate wildlife habitat and how program funds may be used to improve those habitats;
(E) A detailed description of how and to what extent public hunting and other recreational access will be increased on land enrolled under a USDA conservation program, or if conservation program land is not available, specify that there is no impact;
(F) A detailed description of how any additional Federal, State, tribal government, or private resources will be used to carry out grant activities; and
(G) A detailed description of how the public will be made aware of the location of the land enrolled.
(iv)
Work plan.
Applications must discuss the specific tasks to be completed using grant and matching funds. The work plan should show how customers will be identified, key personnel to be involved with administration of the grant, and the evaluation methods to be used to determine the success of specific tasks and overall objectives of a VPA-HIP grant. The budget must present a breakdown of the estimated costs associated with VPA-HIP activities and allocate these costs to each of the tasks to be undertaken. Additional funds from Federal, State, tribal government, or private resources as well as grant funds and resources provided in kind must be accounted for in the budget.
(H) A description on how this will create a new program or enhance an existing program.
(v)
Performance evaluation criteria.
Applications should discuss how the State or tribal government will evaluate whether the program for which the grant is being sought will meet the stated goals for the State or tribal program, including but not limited to landowner and recreationist participation, outreach, and cost-effectiveness.
(vii)
Other similar efforts.
The applicant must describe its previous accomplishments and outcomes in public access activities, if any.
(viii)
Qualifications of personnel.
Applicants must describe the qualifications of personnel expected to perform key tasks, and whether these personnel are to be full- or part-time employees or contract personnel.
[75 FR 39140, July 8, 2010, as amended at 79 FR 44641, Aug. 1, 2014]
§ 1455.20
Criteria for grant selection.
(a) Incomplete or non-responsive applications will not be evaluated. Applicants may revise their applications and re-submit them prior to the published deadline if there is sufficient time to do so.
(b) After all applications have been evaluated using the evaluation criteria and scored in accordance with the point allocation specified in the announcement for program funding, a list of all applications in ranked order, together with funding level recommendations, will be submitted to the Chief or designee.
(c) Unless supplemented in a APF, applications for grants for VPA-HIP will be evaluated using the criteria listed in this section. The distribution of points to be awarded per criterion will be identified in the APF.
(1)
Benefits.
The application will be evaluated to determine whether and to what extent the project's anticipated outcomes promote improvement of public access for wildlife-dependent recreation and intended environmental benefits.
(2)
Project description and feasibility.
The application will be evaluated on the extent and quality to which the applicant demonstrates a reasonable approach to the project, sufficient resources to complete the project, and a capability to complete the project in a timely manner.
(3)
Widespread acceptance and maximizing participation of landowners.
The application will be evaluated based on the applicant's plan for encouraging the participation of owners and operators of privately-held farm, ranch, and forest land, and for engaging the public users. Additionally, the extent to which the applicant has identified and established relationships with the partners necessary to achieve the project's goals will be evaluated.
(4)
Appropriate wildlife habitat.
The application will be evaluated to determine whether the applicant demonstrates expertise in providing technical assistance with respect to establishing and maintaining appropriate wildlife habitat on public access land.
(5)
Strengthening wildlife habitat for lands under a USDA conservation program.
The application will be evaluated to determine whether the project proposes to provide incentives to increase public hunting and other recreational access on land enrolled under a USDA conservation program, including lands enrolled in the Wetland Reserve Easement component of the Agricultural Conservation Easement Program, part 1468, subpart C of this chapter.
(6)
Additional private, Federal, State, or tribal government resources.
The application will be evaluated to determine the extent to which the support letters provided by other organizations involved with the project demonstrate specific and quantified commitments to the project. Applications that demonstrate additional resources will receive more points, all else being equal, than those that do not.
(7)
Making available the location of enrolled land.
The application will be evaluated to determine how the project proposes to make available to the public the location of the land enrolled.
(8)
Performance evaluation criteria.
The application will be evaluated to determine whether the applicant has included outcome-based performance measures.
(9)
Administrative capabilities.
The application will be evaluated to determine whether the grant applicant has a track record of administering the project or, in the absence of a track record, the capacity to administer the project. Applicants that have demonstrated capable financial systems and audit controls, personnel and program administration performance measures, and clear rules of governance will receive more points than those not evidencing this capacity.
(10)
Delivery.
The application will be evaluated to determine whether the applicant has a track record in implementing public access or similar programs or, in the absence of an actual track record, the capacity to implement a public access program. The applicant's potential for delivering an effective public access program and the expected effects of that program will also be assessed.
(11)
Work plan and budget.
The work plan will be reviewed for detailed actions and an accompanying timetable for implementing the components of the application. Clear, logical, realistic, and efficient plans will result in a higher score. Budgets will be reviewed for completeness and whether and to what extent additional resources were committed by Federal, State, or tribal government, and private resources.
(12)
Qualifications of those performing the tasks.
The application will be reviewed to determine if key personnel have appropriate knowledge, skills, and abilities with respect to wildlife-dependent recreation including hunting or fishing on privately-held farm, ranch, and forest land, funds control, grants management, performance monitoring and evaluation, or other activities relevant to the success of the proposed public access program.
[75 FR 39140, July 8, 2010, as amended at 79 FR 44641, Aug. 1, 2014; 84 FR 19703, May 6, 2019]
§ 1455.21
Additional responsibilities of grantee.
(a) Before receiving grant funding, the grantee will be required to sign an agreement similar in form and substance to the form of agreement published within or as an appendix to the APF. The agreement will require the grantee to commit to do all of the following:
(1) Take all practicable steps to develop continuing sources of financial support from other Federal, State, tribal government, or private resources;
(2) Make arrangements for the monitoring and evaluation of the activities related to implementation of the public access program of the owners or operators that enroll farm, ranch, and forest land; and
(3) Provide an accounting for the money received by the grantee under this subpart.
(b) Grantees will be required to monitor funds or services as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, and must agree to that monitoring before grant funds are awarded.
(c) The grantee must certify that the grant funds and services will not be used for ineligible purposes. Specifically, grant funds and services may not be used to:
(1) Duplicate or replace current services; however, grant funds may be used to expand the level of effort or service beyond what is currently being provided;
(2) Pay costs of preparing the application for funding under VPA-HIP;
(3) Pay costs of the project incurred prior to the date of grant approval;
(4) Fund political activities;
(5) Pay any judgment or debt owed to the United States;
(6) Pay for the design, repair, rehabilitation, acquisition, or construction of a building or facility (including a processing facility);
(7) Purchase, rent or pay for the installation of fixed equipment, other than property identification signs;
(8) Pay for the repair of privately owned vehicles; or
(9) Pay for research and development not directly related to quantifying the performance of VPA-HIP lands enrolled with funding from VPA-HIP.
(d) Grant agreements under this part will be for a term of up to 3 years.
(e) Grantees that are States will have the grant amount reduced by 25 percent if opening dates for migratory bird hunting in the State are not consistent for residents and non-residents. This paragraph does not apply to grantees that are Tribal governments.
(f) Failure of the grantee to execute a grant agreement in a timely fashion, as determined by the CCC, will be construed to be a withdrawal from VPA-HIP.
§ 1455.30
Reporting requirements.
(a) Grantees must provide the following to NRCS:
(1) A “Financial Status Report” listing expenditures according to agreed upon budget categories, on a periodic
basis as specified in the grant document.
(2) Annual performance reports that compare accomplishments to the objectives stated in the application, and that also:
(i) Identify all tasks completed to date and provide documentation supporting the reported results;
(ii) If the original schedule provided in the work plan is not being met, the report must discuss the problems or delays that may affect completion of the project;
(iii) List objectives for the next reporting period; and
(iv) Discuss compliance with any special conditions on the use of award funds. Reports are due as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(3) Final project performance reports, inclusive of supporting documentation. The final performance report is due within 90 days of the completion of the project.
(b) All reports submitted to NRCS will be held in confidence to the extent permitted by law.
(c) Grantees must comply with applicable registration and reporting requirements of the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 (Pub. L. 109-282, as amended) and 2 CFR parts 25 and 170.
[75 FR 39140, July 8, 2010, as amended at 79 FR 44641, Aug. 1, 2014]
§ 1455.31
Miscellaneous.
(a)
Inspection.
Grantees must permit periodic inspection of the program operations by a CCC representative, as determined by CCC.
(b)
Performance evaluation.
CCC will incorporate performance criteria in grant award documentation and will regularly evaluate the progress and performance of grant awardees.
(c)
Suspend, terminate, or require refund.
CCC may elect to suspend or terminate a grant in all or part, or funding of a particular workplan activity, and require refund of part or all of the grant, with interest, where CCC has determined:
(1) That the grantee or subrecipient of grant funds has demonstrated insufficient progress in complying with the terms of the grant agreement;
(2) The opening dates for migratory bird hunting in a State have been changed so as to be not consistent for residents and non-residents during the term of the grant;
(3) There is reasonable evidence that shows joint funding has not been or will not be forthcoming on a timely basis; or
(4) Such other cause as CCC identifies in writing to the grantee based on reasonable evidence (including but not limited to the use of Federal grant funds for ineligible purposes).
(d)
Advance or reimbursement.
Grantees must use the request for advance or reimbursement form, which will be provided by CCC, to request advances or reimbursements;
(e)
Appeals.
Appeals will be handled according to 7 CFR parts 11, 614, and 780.
(f)
Environmental review.
All grants made under this subpart are subject to the requirements of 7 CFR part 650. Applicants for grant funds must consider and document within their plans the important environmental factors within the planning area and the potential environmental impacts of the plan on the planning area, as well as the alternative planning strategies that were reviewed.
(g)
Civil rights.
CCC prohibits discrimination in all its programs and activities on the basis of race, color, national origin, age, disability, and where applicable, sex, marital status, familial status, parental status, religion, sexual orientation, genetic information, political beliefs, reprisal, or because all or a part of an individual's income is derived from any public assistance program. VPA-HIP will also be administered in accordance with all other applicable civil rights law.
(h)
Other regulations.
The grant program under this part is subject to the provisions of 2 CFR part 200, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards.
(i)
Audit.
Grantees must comply with the audit requirements of 2 CFR part 200. The audit requirements apply to the years in which grant funds are received and years in which work is accomplished using grant funds.
(j)
Change in scope or objectives.
The Grantee must obtain prior approval from NRCS for any change to the scope or objectives of the approved project. Failure to obtain prior approval of changes to the scope of work or budget may result in suspension, termination, or recovery of grant funds.
(k)
Exceptions.
CCC may, in individual cases, make an exception to any requirement or provision of this part, provided that any such exception is not inconsistent with any applicable law or opinion of the Comptroller General, and provided further, that CCC determines that the application of the requirement or provision would adversely affect the Federal Government's interest.
(l)
Enforcement and refunds; liens and schemes or devices.
Grantees must comply with all conditions of the grant and any monies not spent or improperly spent must be returned immediately with interest to run at the normal rate for CCC obligations. Interest charges will be computed from the date of the CCC disbursement. Grantees must insure that parties that receive funds from the grantee comply with the grantee's application and return funds made available by the grantee where there is no such compliance. Any scheme or device to avoid any limits of this part will be considered to be a program violation with respect to any grant to which that scheme or device is related. Grant funds will be made available to the States or Tribes that are grantees under this part without regard to the claims of others, unless CCC determines otherwise.
[75 FR 39140, July 8, 2010, as amended at 79 FR 44641, Aug. 1, 2014]
Pt. 1463

# PART 1463—2005-2014 TOBACCO TRANSITION PROGRAM

# Subpart A—Tobacco Transition Assessments
Sec.
1463.1
General.
1463.2
Administration.
1463.3
Definitions.
1463.4
National assessment.
1463.5
Division of national assessment among classes of tobacco.
1463.6
Determination of persons liable for payment of assessments.
1463.7
Division of class assessment to individual entities.
1463.8
Notification of assessments.
1463.9
Payment of assessments.
1463.10
Civil penalties and criminal penalties.
1463.11
Appeals and judicial review.

# Subpart B—Tobacco Transition Payment Program
1463.100
General.
1463.101
Administration.
1463.102
Definitions.
1463.103
Eligible quota holder.
1463.104
Eligible tobacco producer.
1463.105
Base quota levels for eligible quota holders.
1463.106
Base quota levels for eligible tobacco producers.
1463.107
Payment to eligible quota holders.
1463.108
Payment to eligible tobacco producers.
1463.109
Contracts.
1463.110
Misrepresentation and scheme or device.
1463.111
Offsets and assignments.
1463.112
Successor in interest contracts.
1463.113
Issuance of payments in event of death.
1463.114
Appeals.

# Subpart C—Miscellaneous Provisions
1463.201
Refunds of importer assessments.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 518-519a, 714b, and 714c.

# Source:
70 FR 7011, Feb. 10, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Tobacco Transition Assessments
§ 1463.1
General.
The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) will levy assessments from January 1, 2005 through September 30, 2014 on certain domestic manufacturers and importers of tobacco products as provided for in this subpart in order to fund the issuance of payments made under subpart B of this part and to fund other activities authorized by Title VI of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. The total amount of assessments that may be collected under this part shall not exceed $10.140 billion.
§ 1463.2
Administration.
The provisions of this subpart will be administered under the general supervision of the Executive Vice President, CCC.
§ 1463.3
Definitions.
The definitions in this section shall apply for all purposes of administering the provisions of this subpart:
Act
means Title VI of the America Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-357).
Adjusted market share
means the market share of a manufacturer of tobacco products or an importer of tobacco products adjusted to reflect such entity's share of a class of tobacco during the immediately preceding calendar year quarter. With respect to the 39th and 40th quarterly payments due on September 30, 2014, the adjusted market share will be the entity's share of a class of tobacco during the April 1-June 30, 2014 quarter.
Base period
means the period July 1 through June 30 immediately preceding the beginning of a fiscal year.
CCC's point of contact
means, for items physically sent to CCC, “Fibers, Peanuts, and Tobacco Analysis Group, Economic and Policy Analysis Staff, Farm Service Agency, United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), STOP 0515, Room 3720-S, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20250-0515” unless otherwise specified by CCC through actual notice.
Calendar year
means the period January 1 through December 31.
Class of tobacco
means each of the following types of tobacco and tobacco products for which taxes are required to be paid for the removal of such into domestic commerce: cigarettes; cigars; snuff; roll-your-own tobacco; chewing tobacco; and pipe tobacco.
Domestic manufacturer of tobacco products
means an entity that is required to obtain a permit from the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau of the Department of the Treasury with respect to the production of tobacco products under title 27 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
Fiscal year
means the period October 1 through September 30.
Gross domestic volume
means the volume of tobacco products removed, as defined by section 5702 of the Revenue Code, and not exempt from tax under chapter 52 of such code at the time of their removal under that chapter or the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
Importer of tobacco products
means an entity that is required to obtain a permit from the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau of the Department of the Treasury with respect to the importation of tobacco products under title 27 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
Market share
means the share of each domestic manufacturer and importer of a class of tobacco product, to the fourth decimal place, of the total volume of domestic sales of the class of tobacco product in the base period. Such sales shall be determined by CCC by using the total volume of such class of tobacco product that is removed into domestic commerce in the base period.
National assessment
means the total amount of funding that CCC has determined to be necessary to collect in a year from domestic manufacturer and importer of tobacco products in order to reimburse CCC for expenditures that it will incur in the year for expenses incurred under sections 622 and 623 of the Act in making payments under subpart B of this part; losses sustained by CCC in the disposition of tobacco acquired under price support loan agreements as provided in section 641(c) of the Act; and costs incurred by CCC in the utilization of financial institutions in administering sections 622 and 623 of the Act.
Revenue Code
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Tobacco Trust Fund
means an account established for deposit of assessments collected under this subpart, plus interest that accrues on such assessments, to be used to implement this subpart.
[70 FR 7011, Feb. 10, 2005, as amended at 70 FR 17158, Apr. 4, 2005; 73 FR 23066, Apr. 29, 2008]
§ 1463.4
National assessment.
Annually, CCC will make a determination of a national assessment in as far in advance of when the first assessment is due as CCC determines to be practicable. Based upon the amount of assessments received and expenditures incurred in a calendar year quarter, CCC may adjust the national assessment for one or more classes of tobacco established for a particular year
with respect to succeeding calendar year quarters.
§ 1463.5
Division of national assessment among classes of tobacco.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the national assessment will be divided by CCC among each class of tobacco based upon CCC's determination of each class's share of the excise taxes paid using for all years the tax rates that applied in fiscal year 2005. The value of the excise taxes paid for each class of tobacco will be based upon the reports filed by domestic manufacturers and importers of tobacco products with the Department of the Treasury and the Department of Homeland Security:
(b) For fiscal year 2005, the national assessment will be divided as follows:
(1) Cigarettes, 96.331 percent;
(2) Cigars, 2.783 percent;
(3) Snuff, 0.539 percent;
(4) Roll-your-own tobacco products, 0.171 percent;
(5) Chewing tobacco, 0.111 percent; and
(6) Pipe tobacco, 0.066 percent.
(c) For fiscal years 2006 through 2014, the division of the national assessment for each class of tobacco will be adjusted annually.
[70 FR 7011, Feb. 10, 2005, as amended at 75 FR 76923, Dec. 10, 2010]
§ 1463.6
Determination of persons liable for payment of assessments.
(a) All domestic manufacturers and importers of tobacco products are required to pay to CCC their proportionate share of a calendar year's national assessment. Such entities are those that import or manufacture tobacco products in a calendar year and are required to report to the United States Department of the Treasury or to the Department of Homeland Security the removal of tobacco products into domestic commerce under the Revenue Code or are required to pay taxes under chapter 52 of such code.
(b)(1) Such entities must provide to CCC's point of contact:
(i) Entity name; mailing address of the entity's principal place of business; an office or individual that CCC may contact for further information; an e-mail address and postal address at which they wish to receive notifications required by the Act to be made to them by CCC; and
(ii) On a monthly basis for each class of tobacco, the total amount of tobacco products, summarized by employer identification number or such other method as may be prescribed by CCC, that are required to be reported to the United States Department of the Treasury or to the Department of Homeland Security in each month beginning October 1, 2004, and ending September 30, 2014.
(2) The information required to be submitted to CCC under paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be submitted by:
(i) With respect to fiscal year 2005 activities occurring prior to February 10, 2005, by February 25, 2005; and
(ii) With respect to all other activities, on the same date the information was required to be submitted to the United States Department of the Treasury or to the Department of Homeland Security.
§ 1463.7
Division of class assessment to individual entities.
(a) In order to determine the assessment owed by an entity, that portion of the national assessment assigned to each class of tobacco will be further divided at the entity level. The amount of the assessment for each class of tobacco to be paid by each domestic manufacturer and importer of tobacco products will be determined by multiplying:
(1) With respect to each class of tobacco, the adjusted market share of such manufacturer or importer; by
(2) The total amount of the assessment for that class of tobacco for the calendar year quarter.
(b) For purposes of determining the volume of domestic sales of each class of tobacco products and for each entity, such sales shall be based upon the reports filed by domestic manufacturers and importers of tobacco with the Department of Treasury and the Department of Homeland Security and shall correspond to the quantity of the tobacco product that is removed into domestic commerce by each such entity:
(1) For cigarettes and cigars, on the number of cigarettes and cigars reported on such reports;
(2) For all other classes of tobacco, on the number of pounds of those products.
(c) In determining the adjusted market share of each manufacturer or importer of a class of tobacco products, except for cigars, CCC will determine to the fourth decimal place an entity's share of excise taxes paid of that class of tobacco product during the immediately prior calendar year quarter. With respect to cigars, CCC will determine the adjusted market share for each manufacturer or importer of a class of tobacco products based on the number of such products removed into domestic commerce.
(d) The amount of a quarterly assessment owed by a domestic manufacturer or importer of tobacco products that must be remitted to CCC by the end of a calendar year quarter is based upon the application of the manufacturer's or importer's adjusted market share to the amount of the national assessment that has been allocated to one of the six specified tobacco product sectors under § 1463.5. As provided in § 1463.3, this adjusted market share is determined by the actions of such manufacturer or importer in a prior calendar year quarter. Accordingly, this amount must be remitted to CCC whether or not the manufacturer or importer is engaged in the removal of tobacco or tobacco products into commerce in the calendar year quarter in which it receives notification of the amount of assessment owed to CCC.
[70 FR 7011, Feb. 10, 2005, as amended at 70 FR 17158, Apr. 4, 2005]
§ 1463.8
Notification of assessments.
(a) Once CCC has determined a national assessment, CCC will collect that amount on a quarterly basis from all domestic manufacturers and importers of tobacco products subject to § 1463.5.
