(a) A public agency that contracts for the confinement of its inmates with
private agencies or other entities, including other government agencies, shall include in any new contract or contract renewal the entity's obligation to adopt and comply with the PREA standards.
(b) Any new contract or contract renewal shall provide for agency contract monitoring to ensure that the contractor is complying with the PREA standards.
§ 115.13
Supervision and monitoring.
(a) The agency shall ensure that each facility it operates shall develop, document, and make its best efforts to comply on a regular basis with a staffing plan that provides for adequate levels of staffing, and, where applicable, video monitoring, to protect inmates against sexual abuse. In calculating adequate staffing levels and determining the need for video monitoring, facilities shall take into consideration:
(1) Generally accepted detention and correctional practices;
(2) Any judicial findings of inadequacy;
(3) Any findings of inadequacy from Federal investigative agencies;
(4) Any findings of inadequacy from internal or external oversight bodies;
(5) All components of the facility's physical plant (including “blind-spots” or areas where staff or inmates may be isolated);
(6) The composition of the inmate population;
(7) The number and placement of supervisory staff;
(8) Institution programs occurring on a particular shift;
(9) Any applicable State or local laws, regulations, or standards;
(10) The prevalence of substantiated and unsubstantiated incidents of sexual abuse; and
(11) Any other relevant factors.
(b) In circumstances where the staffing plan is not complied with, the facility shall document and justify all deviations from the plan.
(c) Whenever necessary, but no less frequently than once each year, for each facility the agency operates, in consultation with the PREA coordinator required by § 115.11, the agency shall assess, determine, and document whether adjustments are needed to:
(1) The staffing plan established pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section;
(2) The facility's deployment of video monitoring systems and other monitoring technologies; and
(3) The resources the facility has available to commit to ensure adherence to the staffing plan.
(d) Each agency operating a facility shall implement a policy and practice of having intermediate-level or higher-level supervisors conduct and document unannounced rounds to identify and deter staff sexual abuse and sexual harassment. Such policy and practice shall be implemented for night shifts as well as day shifts. Each agency shall have a policy to prohibit staff from alerting other staff members that these supervisory rounds are occurring, unless such announcement is related to the legitimate operational functions of the facility.
§ 115.14
Youthful inmates.
(a) A youthful inmate shall not be placed in a housing unit in which the youthful inmate will have sight, sound, or physical contact with any adult inmate through use of a shared dayroom or other common space, shower area, or sleeping quarters.
(b) In areas outside of housing units, agencies shall either:
(1) Maintain sight and sound separation between youthful inmates and adult inmates, or
(2) Provide direct staff supervision when youthful inmates and adult inmates have sight, sound, or physical contact.
(c) Agencies shall make best efforts to avoid placing youthful inmates in isolation to comply with this provision. Absent exigent circumstances, agencies shall not deny youthful inmates daily large-muscle exercise and any legally required special education services to comply with this provision. Youthful inmates shall also have access to other programs and work opportunities to the extent possible.
§ 115.15
Limits to cross-gender viewing and searches.
(a) The facility shall not conduct cross-gender strip searches or cross-gender visual body cavity searches
(meaning a search of the anal or genital opening) except in exigent circumstances or when performed by medical practitioners.
(b) As of August 20, 2015, or August 21, 2017 for a facility whose rated capacity does not exceed 50 inmates, the facility shall not permit cross-gender pat-down searches of female inmates, absent exigent circumstances. Facilities shall not restrict female inmates' access to regularly available programming or other out-of-cell opportunities in order to comply with this provision.
(c) The facility shall document all cross-gender strip searches and cross-gender visual body cavity searches, and shall document all cross-gender pat-down searches of female inmates.
(d) The facility shall implement policies and procedures that enable inmates to shower, perform bodily functions, and change clothing without nonmedical staff of the opposite gender viewing their breasts, buttocks, or genitalia, except in exigent circumstances or when such viewing is incidental to routine cell checks. Such policies and procedures shall require staff of the opposite gender to announce their presence when entering an inmate housing unit.
(e) The facility shall not search or physically examine a transgender or intersex inmate for the sole purpose of determining the inmate's genital status. If the inmate's genital status is unknown, it may be determined during conversations with the inmate, by reviewing medical records, or, if necessary, by learning that information as part of a broader medical examination conducted in private by a medical practitioner.
(f) The agency shall train security staff in how to conduct cross-gender pat-down searches, and searches of transgender and intersex inmates, in a professional and respectful manner, and in the least intrusive manner possible, consistent with security needs.
§ 115.16
Inmates with disabilities and inmates who are limited English proficient.
(a) The agency shall take appropriate steps to ensure that inmates with disabilities (including, for example, inmates who are deaf or hard of hearing, those who are blind or have low vision, or those who have intellectual, psychiatric, or speech disabilities), have an equal opportunity to participate in or benefit from all aspects of the agency's efforts to prevent, detect, and respond to sexual abuse and sexual harassment. Such steps shall include, when necessary to ensure effective communication with inmates who are deaf or hard of hearing, providing access to interpreters who can interpret effectively, accurately, and impartially, both receptively and expressively, using any necessary specialized vocabulary. In addition, the agency shall ensure that written materials are provided in formats or through methods that ensure effective communication with inmates with disabilities, including inmates who have intellectual disabilities, limited reading skills, or who are blind or have low vision. An agency is not required to take actions that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a service, program, or activity, or in undue financial and administrative burdens, as those terms are used in regulations promulgated under title II of the Americans With Disabilities Act, 28 CFR 35.164.
(b) The agency shall take reasonable steps to ensure meaningful access to all aspects of the agency's efforts to prevent, detect, and respond to sexual abuse and sexual harassment to inmates who are limited English proficient, including steps to provide interpreters who can interpret effectively, accurately, and impartially, both receptively and expressively, using any necessary specialized vocabulary.
(c) The agency shall not rely on inmate interpreters, inmate readers, or other types of inmate assistants except in limited circumstances where an extended delay in obtaining an effective interpreter could compromise the inmate's safety, the performance of first-response duties under § 115.64, or the investigation of the inmate's allegations.
§ 115.17
Hiring and promotion decisions.
(a) The agency shall not hire or promote anyone who may have contact with inmates, and shall not enlist the
services of any contractor who may have contact with inmates, who—
(1) Has engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, lockup, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution (as defined in 42 U.S.C. 1997);
(2) Has been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity in the community facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or if the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse; or
(3) Has been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in the activity described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(b) The agency shall consider any incidents of sexual harassment in determining whether to hire or promote anyone, or to enlist the services of any contractor, who may have contact with inmates.
(c) Before hiring new employees who may have contact with inmates, the agency shall:
(1) Perform a criminal background records check; and
(2) Consistent with Federal, State, and local law, make its best efforts to contact all prior institutional employers for information on substantiated allegations of sexual abuse or any resignation during a pending investigation of an allegation of sexual abuse.
(d) The agency shall also perform a criminal background records check before enlisting the services of any contractor who may have contact with inmates.
(e) The agency shall either conduct criminal background records checks at least every five years of current employees and contractors who may have contact with inmates or have in place a system for otherwise capturing such information for current employees.
(f) The agency shall ask all applicants and employees who may have contact with inmates directly about previous misconduct described in paragraph (a) of this section in written applications or interviews for hiring or promotions and in any interviews or written self-evaluations conducted as part of reviews of current employees. The agency shall also impose upon employees a continuing affirmative duty to disclose any such misconduct.
(g) Material omissions regarding such misconduct, or the provision of materially false information, shall be grounds for termination.
(h) Unless prohibited by law, the agency shall provide information on substantiated allegations of sexual abuse or sexual harassment involving a former employee upon receiving a request from an institutional employer for whom such employee has applied to work.
§ 115.18
Upgrades to facilities and technologies.
(a) When designing or acquiring any new facility and in planning any substantial expansion or modification of existing facilities, the agency shall consider the effect of the design, acquisition, expansion, or modification upon the agency's ability to protect inmates from sexual abuse.
(b) When installing or updating a video monitoring system, electronic surveillance system, or other monitoring technology, the agency shall consider how such technology may enhance the agency's ability to protect inmates from sexual abuse.

# Responsive Planning
§ 115.21
Evidence protocol and forensic medical examinations.
(a) To the extent the agency is responsible for investigating allegations of sexual abuse, the agency shall follow a uniform evidence protocol that maximizes the potential for obtaining usable physical evidence for administrative proceedings and criminal prosecutions.
(b) The protocol shall be developmentally appropriate for youth where applicable, and, as appropriate, shall be adapted from or otherwise based on the most recent edition of the U.S. Department of Justice's Office on Violence Against Women publication, “A National Protocol for Sexual Assault Medical Forensic Examinations, Adults/Adolescents,” or similarly comprehensive and authoritative protocols developed after 2011.
(c) The agency shall offer all victims of sexual abuse access to forensic medical examinations, whether on-site or at an outside facility, without financial cost, where evidentiarily or medically appropriate. Such examinations shall be performed by Sexual Assault Forensic Examiners (SAFEs) or Sexual Assault Nurse Examiners (SANEs) where possible. If SAFEs or SANEs cannot be made available, the examination can be performed by other qualified medical practitioners. The agency shall document its efforts to provide SAFEs or SANEs.
(d) The agency shall attempt to make available to the victim a victim advocate from a rape crisis center. If a rape crisis center is not available to provide victim advocate services, the agency shall make available to provide these services a qualified staff member from a community-based organization, or a qualified agency staff member. Agencies shall document efforts to secure services from rape crisis centers. For the purpose of this standard, a rape crisis center refers to an entity that provides intervention and related assistance, such as the services specified in 42 U.S.C. 14043g(b)(2)(C), to victims of sexual assault of all ages. The agency may utilize a rape crisis center that is part of a governmental unit as long as the center is not part of the criminal justice system (such as a law enforcement agency) and offers a comparable level of confidentiality as a nongovernmental entity that provides similar victim services.
(e) As requested by the victim, the victim advocate, qualified agency staff member, or qualified community-based organization staff member shall accompany and support the victim through the forensic medical examination process and investigatory interviews and shall provide emotional support, crisis intervention, information, and referrals.
(f) To the extent the agency itself is not responsible for investigating allegations of sexual abuse, the agency shall request that the investigating agency follow the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
(g) The requirements of paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section shall also apply to:
(1) Any State entity outside of the agency that is responsible for investigating allegations of sexual abuse in prisons or jails; and
(2) Any Department of Justice component that is responsible for investigating allegations of sexual abuse in prisons or jails.
(h) For the purposes of this section, a qualified agency staff member or a qualified community-based staff member shall be an individual who has been screened for appropriateness to serve in this role and has received education concerning sexual assault and forensic examination issues in general.
§ 115.22
Policies to ensure referrals of allegations for investigations.
(a) The agency shall ensure that an administrative or criminal investigation is completed for all allegations of sexual abuse and sexual harassment.
(b) The agency shall have in place a policy to ensure that allegations of sexual abuse or sexual harassment are referred for investigation to an agency with the legal authority to conduct criminal investigations, unless the allegation does not involve potentially criminal behavior. The agency shall publish such policy on its Web site or, if it does not have one, make the policy available through other means. The agency shall document all such referrals.
(c) If a separate entity is responsible for conducting criminal investigations, such publication shall describe the responsibilities of both the agency and the investigating entity.
(d) Any State entity responsible for conducting administrative or criminal investigations of sexual abuse or sexual harassment in prisons or jails shall have in place a policy governing the conduct of such investigations.
(e) Any Department of Justice component responsible for conducting administrative or criminal investigations of sexual abuse or sexual harassment in prisons or jails shall have in place a policy governing the conduct of such investigations.

# Training and Education
§ 115.31
Employee training.
(a) The agency shall train all employees who may have contact with inmates on:
(1) Its zero-tolerance policy for sexual abuse and sexual harassment;
(2) How to fulfill their responsibilities under agency sexual abuse and sexual harassment prevention, detection, reporting, and response policies and procedures;
(3) Inmates' right to be free from sexual abuse and sexual harassment;
(4) The right of inmates and employees to be free from retaliation for reporting sexual abuse and sexual harassment;
(5) The dynamics of sexual abuse and sexual harassment in confinement;
(6) The common reactions of sexual abuse and sexual harassment victims;
(7) How to detect and respond to signs of threatened and actual sexual abuse;
(8) How to avoid inappropriate relationships with inmates;
(9) How to communicate effectively and professionally with inmates, including lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex, or gender nonconforming inmates; and
(10) How to comply with relevant laws related to mandatory reporting of sexual abuse to outside authorities.
(b) Such training shall be tailored to the gender of the inmates at the employee's facility. The employee shall receive additional training if the employee is reassigned from a facility that houses only male inmates to a facility that houses only female inmates, or vice versa.
(c) All current employees who have not received such training shall be trained within one year of the effective date of the PREA standards, and the agency shall provide each employee with refresher training every two years to ensure that all employees know the agency's current sexual abuse and sexual harassment policies and procedures. In years in which an employee does not receive refresher training, the agency shall provide refresher information on current sexual abuse and sexual harassment policies.
(d) The agency shall document, through employee signature or electronic verification, that employees understand the training they have received.
§ 115.32
Volunteer and contractor training.
(a) The agency shall ensure that all volunteers and contractors who have contact with inmates have been trained on their responsibilities under the agency's sexual abuse and sexual harassment prevention, detection, and response policies and procedures.
(b) The level and type of training provided to volunteers and contractors shall be based on the services they provide and level of contact they have with inmates, but all volunteers and contractors who have contact with inmates shall be notified of the agency's zero-tolerance policy regarding sexual abuse and sexual harassment and informed how to report such incidents.
(c) The agency shall maintain documentation confirming that volunteers and contractors understand the training they have received.
§ 115.33
Inmate education.
(a) During the intake process, inmates shall receive information explaining the agency's zero-tolerance policy regarding sexual abuse and sexual harassment and how to report incidents or suspicions of sexual abuse or sexual harassment.
(b) Within 30 days of intake, the agency shall provide comprehensive education to inmates either in person or through video regarding their rights to be free from sexual abuse and sexual harassment and to be free from retaliation for reporting such incidents, and regarding agency policies and procedures for responding to such incidents.
(c) Current inmates who have not received such education shall be educated within one year of the effective date of the PREA standards, and shall receive education upon transfer to a different facility to the extent that the policies and procedures of the inmate's new facility differ from those of the previous facility.
(d) The agency shall provide inmate education in formats accessible to all
inmates, including those who are limited English proficient, deaf, visually impaired, or otherwise disabled, as well as to inmates who have limited reading skills.
(e) The agency shall maintain documentation of inmate participation in these education sessions.
(f) In addition to providing such education, the agency shall ensure that key information is continuously and readily available or visible to inmates through posters, inmate handbooks, or other written formats.
§ 115.34
Specialized training: Investigations.
(a) In addition to the general training provided to all employees pursuant to § 115.31, the agency shall ensure that, to the extent the agency itself conducts sexual abuse investigations, its investigators have received training in conducting such investigations in confinement settings.
(b) Specialized training shall include techniques for interviewing sexual abuse victims, proper use of
Miranda
and
Garrity
warnings, sexual abuse evidence collection in confinement settings, and the criteria and evidence required to substantiate a case for administrative action or prosecution referral.
(c) The agency shall maintain documentation that agency investigators have completed the required specialized training in conducting sexual abuse investigations.
(d) Any State entity or Department of Justice component that investigates sexual abuse in confinement settings shall provide such training to its agents and investigators who conduct such investigations.
§ 115.35
Specialized training: Medical and mental health care.
(a) The agency shall ensure that all full- and part-time medical and mental health care practitioners who work regularly in its facilities have been trained in:
(1) How to detect and assess signs of sexual abuse and sexual harassment;
(2) How to preserve physical evidence of sexual abuse;
(3) How to respond effectively and professionally to victims of sexual abuse and sexual harassment; and
(4) How and to whom to report allegations or suspicions of sexual abuse and sexual harassment.
(b) If medical staff employed by the agency conduct forensic examinations, such medical staff shall receive the appropriate training to conduct such examinations.
(c) The agency shall maintain documentation that medical and mental health practitioners have received the training referenced in this standard either from the agency or elsewhere.
(d) Medical and mental health care practitioners shall also receive the training mandated for employees under § 115.31 or for contractors and volunteers under § 115.32, depending upon the practitioner's status at the agency.

# Screening for Risk of Sexual Victimization and Abusiveness
§ 115.41
Screening for risk of victimization and abusiveness.
(a) All inmates shall be assessed during an intake screening and upon transfer to another facility for their risk of being sexually abused by other inmates or sexually abusive toward other inmates.
(b) Intake screening shall ordinarily take place within 72 hours of arrival at the facility.
(c) Such assessments shall be conducted using an objective screening instrument.
(d) The intake screening shall consider, at a minimum, the following criteria to assess inmates for risk of sexual victimization:
(1) Whether the inmate has a mental, physical, or developmental disability;
(2) The age of the inmate;
(3) The physical build of the inmate;
(4) Whether the inmate has previously been incarcerated;
(5) Whether the inmate's criminal history is exclusively nonviolent;
(6) Whether the inmate has prior convictions for sex offenses against an adult or child;
(7) Whether the inmate is or is perceived to be gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, intersex, or gender nonconforming;
(8) Whether the inmate has previously experienced sexual victimization;
(9) The inmate's own perception of vulnerability; and
(10) Whether the inmate is detained solely for civil immigration purposes.
(e) The initial screening shall consider prior acts of sexual abuse, prior convictions for violent offenses, and history of prior institutional violence or sexual abuse, as known to the agency, in assessing inmates for risk of being sexually abusive.
(f) Within a set time period, not to exceed 30 days from the inmate's arrival at the facility, the facility will reassess the inmate's risk of victimization or abusiveness based upon any additional, relevant information received by the facility since the intake screening.
(g) An inmate's risk level shall be reassessed when warranted due to a referral, request, incident of sexual abuse, or receipt of additional information that bears on the inmate's risk of sexual victimization or abusiveness.
(h) Inmates may not be disciplined for refusing to answer, or for not disclosing complete information in response to, questions asked pursuant to paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(7), (d)(8), or (d)(9) of this section.
(i) The agency shall implement appropriate controls on the dissemination within the facility of responses to questions asked pursuant to this standard in order to ensure that sensitive information is not exploited to the inmate's detriment by staff or other inmates.
§ 115.42
Use of screening information.
(a) The agency shall use information from the risk screening required by § 115.41 to inform housing, bed, work, education, and program assignments with the goal of keeping separate those inmates at high risk of being sexually victimized from those at high risk of being sexually abusive.
(b) The agency shall make individualized determinations about how to ensure the safety of each inmate.
(c) In deciding whether to assign a transgender or intersex inmate to a facility for male or female inmates, and in making other housing and programming assignments, the agency shall consider on a case-by-case basis whether a placement would ensure the inmate's health and safety, and whether the placement would present management or security problems.
(d) Placement and programming assignments for each transgender or intersex inmate shall be reassessed at least twice each year to review any threats to safety experienced by the inmate.
(e) A transgender or intersex inmate's own views with respect to his or her own safety shall be given serious consideration.
(f) Transgender and intersex inmates shall be given the opportunity to shower separately from other inmates.
(g) The agency shall not place lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or intersex inmates in dedicated facilities, units, or wings solely on the basis of such identification or status, unless such placement is in a dedicated facility, unit, or wing established in connection with a consent decree, legal settlement, or legal judgment for the purpose of protecting such inmates.
§ 115.43
Protective custody.
(a) Inmates at high risk for sexual victimization shall not be placed in involuntary segregated housing unless an assessment of all available alternatives has been made, and a determination has been made that there is no available alternative means of separation from likely abusers. If a facility cannot conduct such an assessment immediately, the facility may hold the inmate in involuntary segregated housing for less than 24 hours while completing the assessment.
(b) Inmates placed in segregated housing for this purpose shall have access to programs, privileges, education, and work opportunities to the extent possible. If the facility restricts access to programs, privileges, education, or work opportunities, the facility shall document:
(1) The opportunities that have been limited;
(2) The duration of the limitation; and
(3) The reasons for such limitations.
(c) The facility shall assign such inmates to involuntary segregated housing only until an alternative means of separation from likely abusers can be arranged, and such an assignment shall not ordinarily exceed a period of 30 days.
(d) If an involuntary segregated housing assignment is made pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the facility shall clearly document:
(1) The basis for the facility's concern for the inmate's safety; and
(2) The reason why no alternative means of separation can be arranged.
(e) Every 30 days, the facility shall afford each such inmate a review to determine whether there is a continuing need for separation from the general population.

# Reporting
§ 115.51
Inmate reporting.
(a) The agency shall provide multiple internal ways for inmates to privately report sexual abuse and sexual harassment, retaliation by other inmates or staff for reporting sexual abuse and sexual harassment, and staff neglect or violation of responsibilities that may have contributed to such incidents.
(b) The agency shall also provide at least one way for inmates to report abuse or harassment to a public or private entity or office that is not part of the agency, and that is able to receive and immediately forward inmate reports of sexual abuse and sexual harassment to agency officials, allowing the inmate to remain anonymous upon request. Inmates detained solely for civil immigration purposes shall be provided information on how to contact relevant consular officials and relevant officials at the Department of Homeland Security.
(c) Staff shall accept reports made verbally, in writing, anonymously, and from third parties and shall promptly document any verbal reports.
(d) The agency shall provide a method for staff to privately report sexual abuse and sexual harassment of inmates.
§ 115.52
Exhaustion of administrative remedies.
(a) An agency shall be exempt from this standard if it does not have administrative procedures to address inmate grievances regarding sexual abuse.
(b)(1) The agency shall not impose a time limit on when an inmate may submit a grievance regarding an allegation of sexual abuse.
(2) The agency may apply otherwise-applicable time limits to any portion of a grievance that does not allege an incident of sexual abuse.
(3) The agency shall not require an inmate to use any informal grievance process, or to otherwise attempt to resolve with staff, an alleged incident of sexual abuse.
(4) Nothing in this section shall restrict the agency's ability to defend against an inmate lawsuit on the ground that the applicable statute of limitations has expired.
(c) The agency shall ensure that—
(1) An inmate who alleges sexual abuse may submit a grievance without submitting it to a staff member who is the subject of the complaint, and
(2) Such grievance is not referred to a staff member who is the subject of the complaint.
(d)(1) The agency shall issue a final agency decision on the merits of any portion of a grievance alleging sexual abuse within 90 days of the initial filing of the grievance.
(2) Computation of the 90-day time period shall not include time consumed by inmates in preparing any administrative appeal.
(3) The agency may claim an extension of time to respond, of up to 70 days, if the normal time period for response is insufficient to make an appropriate decision. The agency shall notify the inmate in writing of any such extension and provide a date by which a decision will be made.
(4) At any level of the administrative process, including the final level, if the inmate does not receive a response within the time allotted for reply, including any properly noticed extension, the inmate may consider the absence of a response to be a denial at that level.
(e)(1) Third parties, including fellow inmates, staff members, family members, attorneys, and outside advocates,
shall be permitted to assist inmates in filing requests for administrative remedies relating to allegations of sexual abuse, and shall also be permitted to file such requests on behalf of inmates.
(2) If a third party files such a request on behalf of an inmate, the facility may require as a condition of processing the request that the alleged victim agree to have the request filed on his or her behalf, and may also require the alleged victim to personally pursue any subsequent steps in the administrative remedy process.
(3) If the inmate declines to have the request processed on his or her behalf, the agency shall document the inmate's decision.
(f)(1) The agency shall establish procedures for the filing of an emergency grievance alleging that an inmate is subject to a substantial risk of imminent sexual abuse.
(2) After receiving an emergency grievance alleging an inmate is subject to a substantial risk of imminent sexual abuse, the agency shall immediately forward the grievance (or any portion thereof that alleges the substantial risk of imminent sexual abuse) to a level of review at which immediate corrective action may be taken, shall provide an initial response within 48 hours, and shall issue a final agency decision within 5 calendar days. The initial response and final agency decision shall document the agency's determination whether the inmate is in substantial risk of imminent sexual abuse and the action taken in response to the emergency grievance.
(g) The agency may discipline an inmate for filing a grievance related to alleged sexual abuse only where the agency demonstrates that the inmate filed the grievance in bad faith.
§ 115.53
Inmate access to outside confidential support services.
(a) The facility shall provide inmates with access to outside victim advocates for emotional support services related to sexual abuse by giving inmates mailing addresses and telephone numbers, including toll-free hotline numbers where available, of local, State, or national victim advocacy or rape crisis organizations, and, for persons detained solely for civil immigration purposes, immigrant services agencies. The facility shall enable reasonable communication between inmates and these organizations and agencies, in as confidential a manner as possible.
(b) The facility shall inform inmates, prior to giving them access, of the extent to which such communications will be monitored and the extent to which reports of abuse will be forwarded to authorities in accordance with mandatory reporting laws.
(c) The agency shall maintain or attempt to enter into memoranda of understanding or other agreements with community service providers that are able to provide inmates with confidential emotional support services related to sexual abuse. The agency shall maintain copies of agreements or documentation showing attempts to enter into such agreements.
§ 115.54
Third-party reporting.
The agency shall establish a method to receive third-party reports of sexual abuse and sexual harassment and shall distribute publicly information on how to report sexual abuse and sexual harassment on behalf of an inmate.

# Official Response Following an Inmate Report
§ 115.61
Staff and agency reporting duties.
(a) The agency shall require all staff to report immediately and according to agency policy any knowledge, suspicion, or information regarding an incident of sexual abuse or sexual harassment that occurred in a facility, whether or not it is part of the agency; retaliation against inmates or staff who reported such an incident; and any staff neglect or violation of responsibilities that may have contributed to an incident or retaliation.
(b) Apart from reporting to designated supervisors or officials, staff shall not reveal any information related to a sexual abuse report to anyone other than to the extent necessary, as specified in agency policy, to make treatment, investigation, and other security and management decisions.
(c) Unless otherwise precluded by Federal, State, or local law, medical and mental health practitioners shall
be required to report sexual abuse pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section and to inform inmates of the practitioner's duty to report, and the limitations of confidentiality, at the initiation of services.
(d) If the alleged victim is under the age of 18 or considered a vulnerable adult under a State or local vulnerable persons statute, the agency shall report the allegation to the designated State or local services agency under applicable mandatory reporting laws.
(e) The facility shall report all allegations of sexual abuse and sexual harassment, including third-party and anonymous reports, to the facility's designated investigators.
§ 115.62
Agency protection duties.
When an agency learns that an inmate is subject to a substantial risk of imminent sexual abuse, it shall take immediate action to protect the inmate.
§ 115.63
Reporting to other confinement facilities.
(a) Upon receiving an allegation that an inmate was sexually abused while confined at another facility, the head of the facility that received the allegation shall notify the head of the facility or appropriate office of the agency where the alleged abuse occurred.
(b) Such notification shall be provided as soon as possible, but no later than 72 hours after receiving the allegation.
(c) The agency shall document that it has provided such notification.
(d) The facility head or agency office that receives such notification shall ensure that the allegation is investigated in accordance with these standards.
§ 115.64
Staff first responder duties.
(a) Upon learning of an allegation that an inmate was sexually abused, the first security staff member to respond to the report shall be required to:
(1) Separate the alleged victim and abuser;
(2) Preserve and protect any crime scene until appropriate steps can be taken to collect any evidence;
(3) If the abuse occurred within a time period that still allows for the collection of physical evidence, request that the alleged victim not take any actions that could destroy physical evidence, including, as appropriate, washing, brushing teeth, changing clothes, urinating, defecating, smoking, drinking, or eating; and
(4) If the abuse occurred within a time period that still allows for the collection of physical evidence, ensure that the alleged abuser does not take any actions that could destroy physical evidence, including, as appropriate, washing, brushing teeth, changing clothes, urinating, defecating, smoking, drinking, or eating.
(b) If the first staff responder is not a security staff member, the responder shall be required to request that the alleged victim not take any actions that could destroy physical evidence, and then notify security staff.
§ 115.65
Coordinated response.
The facility shall develop a written institutional plan to coordinate actions taken in response to an incident of sexual abuse, among staff first responders, medical and mental health practitioners, investigators, and facility leadership.
§ 115.66
Preservation of ability to protect inmates from contact with abusers.
(a) Neither the agency nor any other governmental entity responsible for collective bargaining on the agency's behalf shall enter into or renew any collective bargaining agreement or other agreement that limits the agency's ability to remove alleged staff sexual abusers from contact with any inmates pending the outcome of an investigation or of a determination of whether and to what extent discipline is warranted.
(b) Nothing in this standard shall restrict the entering into or renewal of agreements that govern:
(1) The conduct of the disciplinary process, as long as such agreements are not inconsistent with the provisions of §§ 115.72 and 115.76; or
(2) Whether a no-contact assignment that is imposed pending the outcome of an investigation shall be expunged
from or retained in the staff member's personnel file following a determination that the allegation of sexual abuse is not substantiated.
§ 115.67
Agency protection against retaliation.
(a) The agency shall establish a policy to protect all inmates and staff who report sexual abuse or sexual harassment or cooperate with sexual abuse or sexual harassment investigations from retaliation by other inmates or staff, and shall designate which staff members or departments are charged with monitoring retaliation.
(b) The agency shall employ multiple protection measures, such as housing changes or transfers for inmate victims or abusers, removal of alleged staff or inmate abusers from contact with victims, and emotional support services for inmates or staff who fear retaliation for reporting sexual abuse or sexual harassment or for cooperating with investigations.
(c) For at least 90 days following a report of sexual abuse, the agency shall monitor the conduct and treatment of inmates or staff who reported the sexual abuse and of inmates who were reported to have suffered sexual abuse to see if there are changes that may suggest possible retaliation by inmates or staff, and shall act promptly to remedy any such retaliation. Items the agency should monitor include any inmate disciplinary reports, housing, or program changes, or negative performance reviews or reassignments of staff. The agency shall continue such monitoring beyond 90 days if the initial monitoring indicates a continuing need.
(d) In the case of inmates, such monitoring shall also include periodic status checks.
(e) If any other individual who cooperates with an investigation expresses a fear of retaliation, the agency shall take appropriate measures to protect that individual against retaliation.
(f) An agency's obligation to monitor shall terminate if the agency determines that the allegation is unfounded.
§ 115.68
Post-allegation protective custody.
Any use of segregated housing to protect an inmate who is alleged to have suffered sexual abuse shall be subject to the requirements of § 115.43.

# Investigations
§ 115.71
Criminal and administrative agency investigations.
(a) When the agency conducts its own investigations into allegations of sexual abuse and sexual harassment, it shall do so promptly, thoroughly, and objectively for all allegations, including third-party and anonymous reports.
(b) Where sexual abuse is alleged, the agency shall use investigators who have received special training in sexual abuse investigations pursuant to § 115.34.
(c) Investigators shall gather and preserve direct and circumstantial evidence, including any available physical and DNA evidence and any available electronic monitoring data; shall interview alleged victims, suspected perpetrators, and witnesses; and shall review prior complaints and reports of sexual abuse involving the suspected perpetrator.
(d) When the quality of evidence appears to support criminal prosecution, the agency shall conduct compelled interviews only after consulting with prosecutors as to whether compelled interviews may be an obstacle for subsequent criminal prosecution.
(e) The credibility of an alleged victim, suspect, or witness shall be assessed on an individual basis and shall not be determined by the person's status as inmate or staff. No agency shall require an inmate who alleges sexual abuse to submit to a polygraph examination or other truth-telling device as a condition for proceeding with the investigation of such an allegation.
(f) Administrative investigations:
(1) Shall include an effort to determine whether staff actions or failures to act contributed to the abuse; and
(2) Shall be documented in written reports that include a description of the physical and testimonial evidence,
the reasoning behind credibility assessments, and investigative facts and findings.
(g) Criminal investigations shall be documented in a written report that contains a thorough description of physical, testimonial, and documentary evidence and attaches copies of all documentary evidence where feasible.
(h) Substantiated allegations of conduct that appears to be criminal shall be referred for prosecution.
(i) The agency shall retain all written reports referenced in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section for as long as the alleged abuser is incarcerated or employed by the agency, plus five years.
(j) The departure of the alleged abuser or victim from the employment or control of the facility or agency shall not provide a basis for terminating an investigation.
(k) Any State entity or Department of Justice component that conducts such investigations shall do so pursuant to the above requirements.
(l) When outside agencies investigate sexual abuse, the facility shall cooperate with outside investigators and shall endeavor to remain informed about the progress of the investigation.
§ 115.72
Evidentiary standard for administrative investigations.
The agency shall impose no standard higher than a preponderance of the evidence in determining whether allegations of sexual abuse or sexual harassment are substantiated.
§ 115.73
Reporting to inmates.
(a) Following an investigation into an inmate's allegation that he or she suffered sexual abuse in an agency facility, the agency shall inform the inmate as to whether the allegation has been determined to be substantiated, unsubstantiated, or unfounded.
(b) If the agency did not conduct the investigation, it shall request the relevant information from the investigative agency in order to inform the inmate.
(c) Following an inmate's allegation that a staff member has committed sexual abuse against the inmate, the agency shall subsequently inform the inmate (unless the agency has determined that the allegation is unfounded) whenever:
(1) The staff member is no longer posted within the inmate's unit;
(2) The staff member is no longer employed at the facility;
(3) The agency learns that the staff member has been indicted on a charge related to sexual abuse within the facility; or
(4) The agency learns that the staff member has been convicted on a charge related to sexual abuse within the facility.
(d) Following an inmate's allegation that he or she has been sexually abused by another inmate, the agency shall subsequently inform the alleged victim whenever:
(1) The agency learns that the alleged abuser has been indicted on a charge related to sexual abuse within the facility; or
(2) The agency learns that the alleged abuser has been convicted on a charge related to sexual abuse within the facility.
(e) All such notifications or attempted notifications shall be documented.
(f) An agency's obligation to report under this standard shall terminate if the inmate is released from the agency's custody.

# Discipline
§ 115.76
Disciplinary sanctions for staff.
(a) Staff shall be subject to disciplinary sanctions up to and including termination for violating agency sexual abuse or sexual harassment policies.
(b) Termination shall be the presumptive disciplinary sanction for staff who have engaged in sexual abuse.
(c) Disciplinary sanctions for violations of agency policies relating to sexual abuse or sexual harassment (other than actually engaging in sexual abuse) shall be commensurate with the nature and circumstances of the acts committed, the staff member's disciplinary history, and the sanctions imposed for comparable offenses by other staff with similar histories.
(d) All terminations for violations of agency sexual abuse or sexual harassment policies, or resignations by staff who would have been terminated if not
for their resignation, shall be reported to law enforcement agencies, unless the activity was clearly not criminal, and to any relevant licensing bodies.
§ 115.77
Corrective action for contractors and volunteers.
(a) Any contractor or volunteer who engages in sexual abuse shall be prohibited from contact with inmates and shall be reported to law enforcement agencies, unless the activity was clearly not criminal, and to relevant licensing bodies.
(b) The facility shall take appropriate remedial measures, and shall consider whether to prohibit further contact with inmates, in the case of any other violation of agency sexual abuse or sexual harassment policies by a contractor or volunteer.
§ 115.78
Disciplinary sanctions for inmates.
(a) Inmates shall be subject to disciplinary sanctions pursuant to a formal disciplinary process following an administrative finding that the inmate engaged in inmate-on-inmate sexual abuse or following a criminal finding of guilt for inmate-on-inmate sexual abuse.
(b) Sanctions shall be commensurate with the nature and circumstances of the abuse committed, the inmate's disciplinary history, and the sanctions imposed for comparable offenses by other inmates with similar histories.
(c) The disciplinary process shall consider whether an inmate's mental disabilities or mental illness contributed to his or her behavior when determining what type of sanction, if any, should be imposed.
(d) If the facility offers therapy, counseling, or other interventions designed to address and correct underlying reasons or motivations for the abuse, the facility shall consider whether to require the offending inmate to participate in such interventions as a condition of access to programming or other benefits.
(e) The agency may discipline an inmate for sexual contact with staff only upon a finding that the staff member did not consent to such contact.
(f) For the purpose of disciplinary action, a report of sexual abuse made in good faith based upon a reasonable belief that the alleged conduct occurred shall not constitute falsely reporting an incident or lying, even if an investigation does not establish evidence sufficient to substantiate the allegation.
(g) An agency may, in its discretion, prohibit all sexual activity between inmates and may discipline inmates for such activity. An agency may not, however, deem such activity to constitute sexual abuse if it determines that the activity is not coerced.

# Medical and Mental Care
§ 115.81
Medical and mental health screenings; history of sexual abuse.
(a) If the screening pursuant to § 115.41 indicates that a prison inmate has experienced prior sexual victimization, whether it occurred in an institutional setting or in the community, staff shall ensure that the inmate is offered a follow-up meeting with a medical or mental health practitioner within 14 days of the intake screening.
(b) If the screening pursuant to § 115.41 indicates that a prison inmate has previously perpetrated sexual abuse, whether it occurred in an institutional setting or in the community, staff shall ensure that the inmate is offered a follow-up meeting with a mental health practitioner within 14 days of the intake screening.
(c) If the screening pursuant to § 115.41 indicates that a jail inmate has experienced prior sexual victimization, whether it occurred in an institutional setting or in the community, staff shall ensure that the inmate is offered a follow-up meeting with a medical or mental health practitioner within 14 days of the intake screening.
(d) Any information related to sexual victimization or abusiveness that occurred in an institutional setting shall be strictly limited to medical and mental health practitioners and other staff, as necessary, to inform treatment plans and security and management decisions, including housing, bed, work, education, and program assignments, or as otherwise required by Federal, State, or local law.
(e) Medical and mental health practitioners shall obtain informed consent
from inmates before reporting information about prior sexual victimization that did not occur in an institutional setting, unless the inmate is under the age of 18.
§ 115.82
Access to emergency medical and mental health services.
(a) Inmate victims of sexual abuse shall receive timely, unimpeded access to emergency medical treatment and crisis intervention services, the nature and scope of which are determined by medical and mental health practitioners according to their professional judgment.
(b) If no qualified medical or mental health practitioners are on duty at the time a report of recent abuse is made, security staff first responders shall take preliminary steps to protect the victim pursuant to § 115.62 and shall immediately notify the appropriate medical and mental health practitioners.
(c) Inmate victims of sexual abuse while incarcerated shall be offered timely information about and timely access to emergency contraception and sexually transmitted infections prophylaxis, in accordance with professionally accepted standards of care, where medically appropriate.
(d) Treatment services shall be provided to the victim without financial cost and regardless of whether the victim names the abuser or cooperates with any investigation arising out of the incident.
§ 115.83
Ongoing medical and mental health care for sexual abuse victims and abusers.
(a) The facility shall offer medical and mental health evaluation and, as appropriate, treatment to all inmates who have been victimized by sexual abuse in any prison, jail, lockup, or juvenile facility.
(b) The evaluation and treatment of such victims shall include, as appropriate, follow-up services, treatment plans, and, when necessary, referrals for continued care following their transfer to, or placement in, other facilities, or their release from custody.
(c) The facility shall provide such victims with medical and mental health services consistent with the community level of care.
(d) Inmate victims of sexually abusive vaginal penetration while incarcerated shall be offered pregnancy tests.
(e) If pregnancy results from the conduct described in paragraph (d) of this section, such victims shall receive timely and comprehensive information about and timely access to all lawful pregnancy-related medical services.
(f) Inmate victims of sexual abuse while incarcerated shall be offered tests for sexually transmitted infections as medically appropriate.
(g) Treatment services shall be provided to the victim without financial cost and regardless of whether the victim names the abuser or cooperates with any investigation arising out of the incident.
(h) All prisons shall attempt to conduct a mental health evaluation of all known inmate-on-inmate abusers within 60 days of learning of such abuse history and offer treatment when deemed appropriate by mental health practitioners.

# Data Collection and Review
§ 115.86
Sexual abuse incident reviews.
(a) The facility shall conduct a sexual abuse incident review at the conclusion of every sexual abuse investigation, including where the allegation has not been substantiated, unless the allegation has been determined to be unfounded.
(b) Such review shall ordinarily occur within 30 days of the conclusion of the investigation.
(c) The review team shall include upper-level management officials, with input from line supervisors, investigators, and medical or mental health practitioners.
(d) The review team shall:
(1) Consider whether the allegation or investigation indicates a need to change policy or practice to better prevent, detect, or respond to sexual abuse;
(2) Consider whether the incident or allegation was motivated by race; ethnicity; gender identity; lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or intersex identification, status, or perceived status;
or gang affiliation; or was motivated or otherwise caused by other group dynamics at the facility;
(3) Examine the area in the facility where the incident allegedly occurred to assess whether physical barriers in the area may enable abuse;
(4) Assess the adequacy of staffing levels in that area during different shifts;
(5) Assess whether monitoring technology should be deployed or augmented to supplement supervision by staff; and
(6) Prepare a report of its findings, including but not necessarily limited to determinations made pursuant to paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(5) of this section, and any recommendations for improvement and submit such report to the facility head and PREA compliance manager.
(e) The facility shall implement the recommendations for improvement, or shall document its reasons for not doing so.
§ 115.87
Data collection.
(a) The agency shall collect accurate, uniform data for every allegation of sexual abuse at facilities under its direct control using a standardized instrument and set of definitions.
(b) The agency shall aggregate the incident-based sexual abuse data at least annually.
(c) The incident-based data collected shall include, at a minimum, the data necessary to answer all questions from the most recent version of the Survey of Sexual Violence conducted by the Department of Justice.
(d) The agency shall maintain, review, and collect data as needed from all available incident-based documents, including reports, investigation files, and sexual abuse incident reviews.
(e) The agency also shall obtain incident-based and aggregated data from every private facility with which it contracts for the confinement of its inmates.
(f) Upon request, the agency shall provide all such data from the previous calendar year to the Department of Justice no later than June 30.
§ 115.88
Data review for corrective action.
(a) The agency shall review data collected and aggregated pursuant to § 115.87 in order to assess and improve the effectiveness of its sexual abuse prevention, detection, and response policies, practices, and training, including by:
(1) Identifying problem areas;
(2) Taking corrective action on an ongoing basis; and
(3) Preparing an annual report of its findings and corrective actions for each facility, as well as the agency as a whole.
(b) Such report shall include a comparison of the current year's data and corrective actions with those from prior years and shall provide an assessment of the agency's progress in addressing sexual abuse.
(c) The agency's report shall be approved by the agency head and made readily available to the public through its Web site or, if it does not have one, through other means.
(d) The agency may redact specific material from the reports when publication would present a clear and specific threat to the safety and security of a facility, but must indicate the nature of the material redacted.
§ 115.89
Data storage, publication, and destruction.
(a) The agency shall ensure that data collected pursuant to § 115.87 are securely retained.
(b) The agency shall make all aggregated sexual abuse data, from facilities under its direct control and private facilities with which it contracts, readily available to the public at least annually through its Web site or, if it does not have one, through other means.
(c) Before making aggregated sexual abuse data publicly available, the agency shall remove all personal identifiers.
(d) The agency shall maintain sexual abuse data collected pursuant to § 115.87 for at least 10 years after the date of the initial collection unless Federal, State, or local law requires otherwise.

# Audits
§ 115.93
Audits of standards.
The agency shall conduct audits pursuant to §§ 115.401 through 115.405.

# Subpart B—Standards for Lockups

# Prevention Planning
§ 115.111
Zero tolerance of sexual abuse and sexual harassment; PREA coordinator.
(a) An agency shall have a written policy mandating zero tolerance toward all forms of sexual abuse and sexual harassment and outlining the agency's approach to preventing, detecting, and responding to such conduct.
(b) An agency shall employ or designate an upper-level, agency-wide PREA coordinator with sufficient time and authority to develop, implement, and oversee agency efforts to comply with the PREA standards in all of its lockups.
§ 115.112
Contracting with other entities for the confinement of detainees.
(a) A law enforcement agency that contracts for the confinement of its lockup detainees in lockups operated by private agencies or other entities, including other government agencies, shall include in any new contract or contract renewal the entity's obligation to adopt and comply with the PREA standards.
(b) Any new contract or contract renewal shall provide for agency contract monitoring to ensure that the contractor is complying with the PREA standards.
§ 115.113
Supervision and monitoring.
(a) For each lockup, the agency shall develop and document a staffing plan that provides for adequate levels of staffing, and, where applicable, video monitoring, to protect detainees against sexual abuse. In calculating adequate staffing levels and determining the need for video monitoring, agencies shall take into consideration;
(1) The physical layout of each lockup;
(2) The composition of the detainee population;
(3) The prevalence of substantiated and unsubstantiated incidents of sexual abuse; and
(4) Any other relevant factors.
(b) In circumstances where the staffing plan is not complied with, the lockup shall document and justify all deviations from the plan.
(c) Whenever necessary, but no less frequently than once each year, the lockup shall assess, determine, and document whether adjustments are needed to:
(1) The staffing plan established pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section;
(2) Prevailing staffing patterns;
(3) The lockup's deployment of video monitoring systems and other monitoring technologies; and
(4) The resources the lockup has available to commit to ensure adequate staffing levels.
(d) If vulnerable detainees are identified pursuant to the screening required by § 115.141, security staff shall provide such detainees with heightened protection, to include continuous direct sight and sound supervision, single-cell housing, or placement in a cell actively monitored on video by a staff member sufficiently proximate to intervene, unless no such option is determined to be feasible.
§ 115.114
Juveniles and youthful detainees.
Juveniles and youthful detainees shall be held separately from adult detainees.
§ 115.115
Limits to cross-gender viewing and searches.
(a) The lockup shall not conduct cross-gender strip searches or cross-gender visual body cavity searches (meaning a search of the anal or genital opening) except in exigent circumstances or when performed by medical practitioners.
(b) The lockup shall document all cross-gender strip searches and cross-gender visual body cavity searches.
(c) The lockup shall implement policies and procedures that enable detainees to shower, perform bodily functions, and change clothing without nonmedical staff of the opposite gender viewing their breasts, buttocks, or
genitalia, except in exigent circumstances or when such viewing is incidental to routine cell checks. Such policies and procedures shall require staff of the opposite gender to announce their presence when entering an area where detainees are likely to be showering, performing bodily functions, or changing clothing.
(d) The lockup shall not search or physically examine a transgender or intersex detainee for the sole purpose of determining the detainee's genital status. If the detainee's genital status is unknown, it may be determined during conversations with the detainee, by reviewing medical records, or, if necessary, by learning that information as part of a broader medical examination conducted in private by a medical practitioner.
(e) The agency shall train law enforcement staff in how to conduct cross-gender pat-down searches, and searches of transgender and intersex detainees, in a professional and respectful manner, and in the least intrusive manner possible, consistent with security needs.
§ 115.116
Detainees with disabilities and detainees who are limited English proficient.
(a) The agency shall take appropriate steps to ensure that detainees with disabilities (including, for example, detainees who are deaf or hard of hearing, those who are blind or have low vision, or those who have intellectual, psychiatric, or speech disabilities), have an equal opportunity to participate in or benefit from all aspects of the agency's efforts to prevent, detect, and respond to sexual abuse and sexual harassment. Such steps shall include, when necessary to ensure effective communication with detainees who are deaf or hard of hearing, providing access to interpreters who can interpret effectively, accurately, and impartially, both receptively and expressively, using any necessary specialized vocabulary. In addition, the agency shall ensure that written materials are provided in formats or through methods that ensure effective communication with detainees with disabilities, including detainees who have intellectual disabilities, limited reading skills, or who are blind or have low vision. An agency is not required to take actions that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a service, program, or activity, or in undue financial and administrative burdens, as those terms are used in regulations promulgated under title II of the Americans With Disabilities Act, 28 CFR 35.164.
(b) The agency shall take reasonable steps to ensure meaningful access to all aspects of the agency's efforts to prevent, detect, and respond to sexual abuse and sexual harassment to detainees who are limited English proficient, including steps to provide interpreters who can interpret effectively, accurately, and impartially, both receptively and expressively, using any necessary specialized vocabulary.
(c) The agency shall not rely on detainee interpreters, detainee readers, or other types of detainee assistants except in limited circumstances where an extended delay in obtaining an effective interpreter could compromise the detainee's safety, the performance of first-response duties under § 115.164, or the investigation of the detainee's allegations.
§ 115.117
Hiring and promotion decisions.
(a) The agency shall not hire or promote anyone who may have contact with detainees, and shall not enlist the services of any contractor who may have contact with detainees, who—
(1) Has engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, lockup, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution (as defined in 42 U.S.C. 1997);
(2) Has been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity in the community facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or if the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse; or
(3) Has been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in the activity described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(b) The agency shall consider any incidents of sexual harassment in determining whether to hire or promote anyone, or to enlist the services of any
contractor, who may have contact with detainees.
(c) Before hiring new employees who may have contact with detainees, the agency shall:
(1) Perform a criminal background records check; and
(2) Consistent with Federal, State, and local law, make its best efforts to contact all prior institutional employers for information on substantiated allegations of sexual abuse or any resignation during a pending investigation of an allegation of sexual abuse.
(d) The agency shall also perform a criminal background records check before enlisting the services of any contractor who may have contact with detainees.
(e) The agency shall either conduct criminal background records checks at least every five years of current employees and contractors who may have contact with detainees or have in place a system for otherwise capturing such information for current employees.
(f) The agency shall ask all applicants and employees who may have contact with detainees directly about previous misconduct described in paragraph (a) of this section in written applications or interviews for hiring or promotions and in any interviews or written self-evaluations conducted as part of reviews of current employees. The agency shall also impose upon employees a continuing affirmative duty to disclose any such misconduct.
(g) Material omissions regarding such misconduct, or the provision of materially false information, shall be grounds for termination.
(h) Unless prohibited by law, the agency shall provide information on substantiated allegations of sexual abuse or sexual harassment involving a former employee upon receiving a request from an institutional employer for whom such employee has applied to work.
§ 115.118
Upgrades to facilities and technologies.
(a) When designing or acquiring any new lockup and in planning any substantial expansion or modification of existing lockups, the agency shall consider the effect of the design, acquisition, expansion, or modification upon the agency's ability to protect detainees from sexual abuse.
(b) When installing or updating a video monitoring system, electronic surveillance system, or other monitoring technology, the agency shall consider how such technology may enhance the agency's ability to protect detainees from sexual abuse.

# Responsive Planning
§ 115.121
Evidence protocol and forensic medical examinations.
(a) To the extent the agency is responsible for investigating allegations of sexual abuse in its lockups, the agency shall follow a uniform evidence protocol that maximizes the potential for obtaining usable physical evidence for administrative proceedings and criminal prosecutions.
(b) The protocol shall be developmentally appropriate for youth where applicable, and, as appropriate, shall be adapted from or otherwise based on the most recent edition of the U.S. Department of Justice's Office on Violence Against Women publication, “A National Protocol for Sexual Assault Medical Forensic Examinations, Adults/Adolescents,” or similarly comprehensive and authoritative protocols developed after 2011. As part of the training required in § 115.131, employees and volunteers who may have contact with lockup detainees shall receive basic training regarding how to detect and respond to victims of sexual abuse.
(c) The agency shall offer all victims of sexual abuse access to forensic medical examinations whether on-site or at an outside facility, without financial cost, where evidentiarily or medically appropriate. Such examinations shall be performed by Sexual Assault Forensic Examiners (SAFEs) or Sexual Assault Nurse Examiners (SANEs) where possible. If SAFEs or SANEs cannot be made available, the examination can be performed by other qualified medical practitioners. The agency shall document its efforts to provide SAFEs or SANEs.
(d) If the detainee is transported for a forensic examination to an outside hospital that offers victim advocacy
services, the detainee shall be permitted to use such services to the extent available, consistent with security needs.
(e) To the extent the agency itself is not responsible for investigating allegations of sexual abuse, the agency shall request that the investigating agency follow the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
(f) The requirements in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section shall also apply to:
(1) Any State entity outside of the agency that is responsible for investigating allegations of sexual abuse in lockups; and
(2) Any Department of Justice component that is responsible for investigating allegations of sexual abuse in lockups.
§ 115.122
Policies to ensure referrals of allegations for investigations.
(a) The agency shall ensure that an administrative or criminal investigation is completed for all allegations of sexual abuse and sexual harassment.
(b) If another law enforcement agency is responsible for conducting investigations of allegations of sexual abuse or sexual harassment in its lockups, the agency shall have in place a policy to ensure that such allegations are referred for investigation to an agency with the legal authority to conduct criminal investigations, unless the allegation does not involve potentially criminal behavior. The agency shall publish such policy, including a description of responsibilities of both the agency and the investigating entity, on its Web site, or, if it does not have one, make available the policy through other means. The agency shall document all such referrals.
(c) Any State entity responsible for conducting administrative or criminal investigations of sexual abuse or sexual harassment in lockups shall have in place a policy governing the conduct of such investigations.
(d) Any Department of Justice component responsible for conducting administrative or criminal investigations of sexual abuse or sexual harassment in lockups shall have in place a policy governing the conduct of such investigations.

# Training and Education
§ 115.131
Employee and volunteer training.
(a) The agency shall train all employees and volunteers who may have contact with lockup detainees to be able to fulfill their responsibilities under agency sexual abuse prevention, detection, and response policies and procedures, including training on:
(1) The agency's zero-tolerance policy and detainees' right to be free from sexual abuse and sexual harassment;
(2) The dynamics of sexual abuse and harassment in confinement settings, including which detainees are most vulnerable in lockup settings;
(3) The right of detainees and employees to be free from retaliation for reporting sexual abuse or harassment;
(4) How to detect and respond to signs of threatened and actual abuse;
(5) How to communicate effectively and professionally with all detainees; and
(6) How to comply with relevant laws related to mandatory reporting of sexual abuse to outside authorities.
(b) All current employees and volunteers who may have contact with lockup detainees shall be trained within one year of the effective date of the PREA standards, and the agency shall provide annual refresher information to all such employees and volunteers to ensure that they know the agency's current sexual abuse and sexual harassment policies and procedures.
(c) The agency shall document, through employee signature or electronic verification, that employees understand the training they have received.
§ 115.132
Detainee, contractor, and inmate worker notification of the agency's zero-tolerance policy.
(a) During the intake process, employees shall notify all detainees of the agency's zero-tolerance policy regarding sexual abuse and sexual harassment.
(b) The agency shall ensure that, upon entering the lockup, contractors and any inmates who work in the lockup are informed of the agency's zero-
tolerance policy regarding sexual abuse and sexual harassment.
§ 115.133
[Reserved]
§ 115.134
Specialized training: Investigations.
(a) In addition to the general training provided to all employees and volunteers pursuant to § 115.131, the agency shall ensure that, to the extent the agency itself conducts sexual abuse investigations, its investigators have received training in conducting such investigations in confinement settings.
(b) Specialized training shall include techniques for interviewing sexual abuse victims, proper use of
Miranda
and
Garrity
warnings, sexual abuse evidence collection in confinement settings, and the criteria and evidence required to substantiate a case for administrative action or prosecution referral.
(c) The agency shall maintain documentation that agency investigators have completed the required specialized training in conducting sexual abuse investigations.
(d) Any State entity or Department of Justice component that investigates sexual abuse in lockups shall provide such training to their agents and investigators who conduct such investigations.
§ 115.135
[Reserved]

# Screening for Risk of Sexual Victimization and Abusiveness
§ 115.141
Screening for risk of victimization and abusiveness.
(a) In lockups that are not utilized to house detainees overnight, before placing any detainees together in a holding cell, staff shall consider whether, based on the information before them, a detainee may be at a high risk of being sexually abused and, when appropriate, shall take necessary steps to mitigate any such danger to the detainee.
(b) In lockups that are utilized to house detainees overnight, all detainees shall be screened to assess their risk of being sexually abused by other detainees or sexually abusive toward other detainees.
(c) In lockups described in paragraph (b) of this section, staff shall ask the detainee about his or her own perception of vulnerability.
(d) The screening process in the lockups described in paragraph (b) of this section shall also consider, to the extent that the information is available, the following criteria to screen detainees for risk of sexual victimization:
(1) Whether the detainee has a mental, physical, or developmental disability;
(2) The age of the detainee;
(3) The physical build and appearance of the detainee;
(4) Whether the detainee has previously been incarcerated; and
(5) The nature of the detainee's alleged offense and criminal history.
§§ 115.142-115.143
[Reserved]

# Reporting
§ 115.151
Detainee reporting.
(a) The agency shall provide multiple ways for detainees to privately report sexual abuse and sexual harassment, retaliation by other detainees or staff for reporting sexual abuse and sexual harassment, and staff neglect or violation of responsibilities that may have contributed to such incidents.
(b) The agency shall also inform detainees of at least one way to report abuse or harassment to a public or private entity or office that is not part of the agency, and that is able to receive and immediately forward detainee reports of sexual abuse and sexual harassment to agency officials, allowing the detainee to remain anonymous upon request.
(c) Staff shall accept reports made verbally, in writing, anonymously, and from third parties and promptly document any verbal reports.
(d) The agency shall provide a method for staff to privately report sexual abuse and sexual harassment of detainees.
§§ 115.152-115.153
[Reserved]
§ 115.154
Third-party reporting.
The agency shall establish a method to receive third-party reports of sexual abuse and sexual harassment in its lockups and shall distribute publicly information on how to report sexual
abuse and sexual harassment on behalf of a detainee.

# Official Response Following a Detainee Report
§ 115.161
Staff and agency reporting duties.
(a) The agency shall require all staff to report immediately and according to agency policy any knowledge, suspicion, or information regarding an incident of sexual abuse or sexual harassment that occurred in an agency lockup; retaliation against detainees or staff who reported such an incident; and any staff neglect or violation of responsibilities that may have contributed to an incident or retaliation.
(b) Apart from reporting to designated supervisors or officials, staff shall not reveal any information related to a sexual abuse report to anyone other than to the extent necessary, as specified in agency policy, to make treatment and investigation decisions.
(c) If the alleged victim is under the age of 18 or considered a vulnerable adult under a State or local vulnerable persons statute, the agency shall report the allegation to the designated State or local services agency under applicable mandatory reporting laws.
(d) The agency shall report all allegations of sexual abuse, including third-party and anonymous reports, to the agency's designated investigators.
§ 115.162
Agency protection duties.
When an agency learns that a detainee is subject to a substantial risk of imminent sexual abuse, it shall take immediate action to protect the detainee.
§ 115.163
Reporting to other confinement facilities.
(a) Upon receiving an allegation that a detainee was sexually abused while confined at another facility, the head of the facility that received the allegation shall notify the head of the facility or appropriate office of the agency where the alleged abuse occurred.
(b) Such notification shall be provided as soon as possible, but no later than 72 hours after receiving the allegation.
(c) The agency shall document that it has provided such notification.
(d) The facility head or agency office that receives such notification shall ensure that the allegation is investigated in accordance with these standards.
§ 115.164
Staff first responder duties.
(a) Upon learning of an allegation that a detainee was sexually abused, the first law enforcement staff member to respond to the report shall be required to:
(1) Separate the alleged victim and abuser;
(2) Preserve and protect any crime scene until appropriate steps can be taken to collect any evidence;
(3) If the abuse occurred within a time period that still allows for the collection of physical evidence, request that the alleged victim not take any actions that could destroy physical evidence, including, as appropriate, washing, brushing teeth, changing clothes, urinating, defecating, smoking, drinking, or eating; and
(4) If the abuse occurred within a time period that still allows for the collection of physical evidence, ensure that the alleged abuser does not take any actions that could destroy physical evidence, including, as appropriate, washing, brushing teeth, changing clothes, urinating, defecating, smoking, drinking, or eating.
(b) If the first staff responder is not a law enforcement staff member, the responder shall be required to request that the alleged victim not take any actions that could destroy physical evidence and then notify law enforcement staff.
§ 115.165
Coordinated response.
(a) The agency shall develop a written institutional plan to coordinate actions taken in response to a lockup incident of sexual abuse, among staff first responders, medical and mental health practitioners, investigators, and agency leadership.
(b) If a victim is transferred from the lockup to a jail, prison, or medical facility, the agency shall, as permitted by law, inform the receiving facility of the incident and the victim's potential
need for medical or social services, unless the victim requests otherwise.
§ 115.166
Preservation of ability to protect detainees from contact with abusers.
(a) Neither the agency nor any other governmental entity responsible for collective bargaining on the agency's behalf shall enter into or renew any collective bargaining agreement or other agreement that limits the agency's ability to remove alleged staff sexual abusers from contact with detainees pending the outcome of an investigation or of a determination of whether and to what extent discipline is warranted.
(b) Nothing in this standard shall restrict the entering into or renewal of agreements that govern:
(1) The conduct of the disciplinary process, as long as such agreements are not inconsistent with the provisions of §§ 115.172 and 115.176; or
(2) Whether a no-contact assignment that is imposed pending the outcome of an investigation shall be expunged from or retained in the staff member's personnel file following a determination that the allegation of sexual abuse is not substantiated.
§ 115.167
Agency protection against retaliation.
(a) The agency shall establish a policy to protect all detainees and staff who report sexual abuse or sexual harassment or cooperate with sexual abuse or sexual harassment investigations from retaliation by other detainees or staff, and shall designate which staff members or departments are charged with monitoring retaliation.
(b) The agency shall employ multiple protection measures, such as housing changes or transfers for detainee victims or abusers, removal of alleged staff or detainee abusers from contact with victims, and emotional support services for staff who fear retaliation for reporting sexual abuse or sexual harassment or for cooperating with investigations.
(c) The agency shall monitor the conduct and treatment of detainees or staff who have reported sexual abuse and of detainees who were reported to have suffered sexual abuse, and shall act promptly to remedy any such retaliation.
(d) If any other individual who cooperates with an investigation expresses a fear of retaliation, the agency shall take appropriate measures to protect that individual against retaliation.
(e) An agency's obligation to monitor shall terminate if the agency determines that the allegation is unfounded.
§ 115.168
[Reserved]

# Investigations
§ 115.171
Criminal and administrative agency investigations.
(a) When the agency conducts its own investigations into allegations of sexual abuse and sexual harassment, it shall do so promptly, thoroughly, and objectively for all allegations, including third-party and anonymous reports.
(b) Where sexual abuse is alleged, the agency shall use investigators who have received special training in sexual abuse investigations pursuant to § 115.134.
(c) Investigators shall gather and preserve direct and circumstantial evidence, including any available physical and DNA evidence and any available electronic monitoring data; shall interview alleged victims, suspected perpetrators, and witnesses; and shall review prior complaints and reports of sexual abuse involving the suspected perpetrator.
(d) When the quality of evidence appears to support criminal prosecution, the agency shall conduct compelled interviews only after consulting with prosecutors as to whether compelled interviews may be an obstacle for subsequent criminal prosecution.
(e) The credibility of an alleged victim, suspect, or witness shall be assessed on an individual basis and shall not be determined by the person's status as detainee or staff. No agency shall require a detainee who alleges sexual abuse to submit to a polygraph examination or other truth-telling device as a condition for proceeding with the investigation of such an allegation.
(f) Administrative investigations:
(1) Shall include an effort to determine whether staff actions or failures to act contributed to the abuse; and
(2) Shall be documented in written reports that include a description of the physical and testimonial evidence, the reasoning behind credibility assessments, and investigative facts and findings.
(g) Criminal investigations shall be documented in a written report that contains a thorough description of physical, testimonial, and documentary evidence and attaches copies of all documentary evidence where feasible.
(h) Substantiated allegations of conduct that appears to be criminal shall be referred for prosecution.
(i) The agency shall retain all written reports referenced in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section for as long as the alleged abuser is incarcerated or employed by the agency, plus five years.
(j) The departure of the alleged abuser or victim from the employment or control of the lockup or agency shall not provide a basis for terminating an investigation.
(k) Any State entity or Department of Justice component that conducts such investigations shall do so pursuant to the above requirements.
(l) When outside agencies investigate sexual abuse, the agency shall cooperate with outside investigators and shall endeavor to remain informed about the progress of the investigation.
§ 115.172
Evidentiary standard for administrative investigations.
The agency shall impose no standard higher than a preponderance of the evidence in determining whether allegations of sexual abuse or sexual harassment are substantiated.
§ 115.173
[Reserved]

# Discipline
§ 115.176
Disciplinary sanctions for staff.
(a) Staff shall be subject to disciplinary sanctions up to and including termination for violating agency sexual abuse or sexual harassment policies.
(b) Termination shall be the presumptive disciplinary sanction for staff who have engaged in sexual abuse.
(c) Disciplinary sanctions for violations of agency policies relating to sexual abuse or sexual harassment (other than actually engaging in sexual abuse) shall be commensurate with the nature and circumstances of the acts committed, the staff member's disciplinary history, and the sanctions imposed for comparable offenses by other staff with similar histories.
(d) All terminations for violations of agency sexual abuse or sexual harassment policies, or resignations by staff who would have been terminated if not for their resignation, shall be reported to law enforcement agencies, unless the activity was clearly not criminal, and to any relevant licensing bodies.
§ 115.177
Corrective action for contractors and volunteers.
(a) Any contractor or volunteer who engages in sexual abuse shall be prohibited from contact with detainees and shall be reported to law enforcement agencies, unless the activity was clearly not criminal, and to relevant licensing bodies.
(b) The facility shall take appropriate remedial measures, and shall consider whether to prohibit further contact with detainees, in the case of any other violation of agency sexual abuse or sexual harassment policies by a contractor or volunteer.
§ 115.178
Referrals for prosecution for detainee-on-detainee sexual abuse.
(a) When there is probable cause to believe that a detainee sexually abused another detainee in a lockup, the agency shall refer the matter to the appropriate prosecuting authority.
(b) To the extent the agency itself is not responsible for investigating allegations of sexual abuse, the agency shall inform the investigating entity of this policy.
(c) Any State entity or Department of Justice component that is responsible for investigating allegations of sexual abuse in lockups shall be subject to this requirement.

# Medical and Mental Care
§ 115.181
[Reserved]
§ 115.182
Access to emergency medical services.
(a) Detainee victims of sexual abuse in lockups shall receive timely, unimpeded access to emergency medical treatment.
(b) Treatment services shall be provided to the victim without financial cost and regardless of whether the victim names the abuser or cooperates with any investigation arising out of the incident.
§ 115.183
[Reserved]

# Data Collection and Review
§ 115.186
Sexual abuse incident reviews.
(a) The lockup shall conduct a sexual abuse incident review at the conclusion of every sexual abuse investigation, including where the allegation has not been substantiated, unless the allegation has been determined to be unfounded.
(b) Such review shall ordinarily occur within 30 days of the conclusion of the investigation.
(c) The review team shall include upper-level management officials, with input from line supervisors and investigators.
(d) The review team shall:
(1) Consider whether the allegation or investigation indicates a need to change policy or practice to better prevent, detect, or respond to sexual abuse;
(2) Consider whether the incident or allegation was motivated by race; ethnicity; gender identity; lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or intersex identification, status, or perceived status; or gang affiliation; or was motivated or otherwise caused by other group dynamics at the lockup;
(3) Examine the area in the lockup where the incident allegedly occurred to assess whether physical barriers in the area may enable abuse;
(4) Assess the adequacy of staffing levels in that area during different shifts;
(5) Assess whether monitoring technology should be deployed or augmented to supplement supervision by staff; and
(6) Prepare a report of its findings, including but not necessarily limited to determinations made pursuant to paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(5) of this section, and any recommendations for improvement and submit such report to the lockup head and agency PREA coordinator.
(e) The lockup shall implement the recommendations for improvement, or shall document its reasons for not doing so.
§ 115.187
Data collection.
(a) The agency shall collect accurate, uniform data for every allegation of sexual abuse at lockups under its direct control using a standardized instrument and set of definitions.
(b) The agency shall aggregate the incident-based sexual abuse data at least annually.
(c) The incident-based data collected shall include, at a minimum, the data necessary to answer all questions from the most recent version of the Local Jail Jurisdictions Survey of Sexual Violence conducted by the Department of Justice, or any subsequent form developed by the Department of Justice and designated for lockups.
(d) The agency shall maintain, review, and collect data as needed from all available incident-based documents, including reports, investigation files, and sexual abuse incident reviews.
(e) The agency also shall obtain incident-based and aggregated data from any private agency with which it contracts for the confinement of its detainees.
(f) Upon request, the agency shall provide all such data from the previous calendar year to the Department of Justice no later than June 30.
§ 115.188
Data review for corrective action.
(a) The agency shall review data collected and aggregated pursuant to § 115.187 in order to assess and improve the effectiveness of its sexual abuse prevention, detection, and response policies, practices, and training, including:
(1) Identifying problem areas;
(2) Taking corrective action on an ongoing basis; and
(3) Preparing an annual report of its findings and corrective actions for each lockup, as well as the agency as a whole.
(b) Such report shall include a comparison of the current year's data and corrective actions with those from prior years and shall provide an assessment of the agency's progress in addressing sexual abuse.
(c) The agency's report shall be approved by the agency head and made readily available to the public through its Web site or, if it does not have one, through other means.
(d) The agency may redact specific material from the reports when publication would present a clear and specific threat to the safety and security of a lockup, but must indicate the nature of the material redacted.
§ 115.189
Data storage, publication, and destruction.
(a) The agency shall ensure that data collected pursuant to § 115.187 are securely retained.
(b) The agency shall make all aggregated sexual abuse data, from lockups under its direct control and any private agencies with which it contracts, readily available to the public at least annually through its Web site or, if it does not have one, through other means.
(c) Before making aggregated sexual abuse data publicly available, the agency shall remove all personal identifiers.
(d) The agency shall maintain sexual abuse data collected pursuant to § 115.187 for at least 10 years after the date of the initial collection unless Federal, State, or local law requires otherwise.

# Audits
§ 115.193
Audits of standards.
The agency shall conduct audits pursuant to §§ 115.401 through 115.405. Audits need not be conducted of individual lockups that are not utilized to house detainees overnight.

# Subpart C—Standards for Community Confinement Facilities

# Prevention Planning
§ 115.211
Zero tolerance of sexual abuse and sexual harassment; PREA coordinator.
(a) An agency shall have a written policy mandating zero tolerance toward all forms of sexual abuse and sexual harassment and outlining the agency's approach to preventing, detecting, and responding to such conduct.
(b) An agency shall employ or designate an upper-level, agency-wide PREA coordinator, with sufficient time and authority to develop, implement, and oversee agency efforts to comply with the PREA standards in all of its community confinement facilities.
§ 115.212
Contracting with other entities for the confinement of residents.
(a) A public agency that contracts for the confinement of its residents with private agencies or other entities, including other government agencies, shall include in any new contract or contract renewal the entity's obligation to adopt and comply with the PREA standards.
(b) Any new contract or contract renewal shall provide for agency contract monitoring to ensure that the contractor is complying with the PREA standards.
(c) Only in emergency circumstances in which all reasonable attempts to find a private agency or other entity in compliance with the PREA standards have failed, may the agency enter into a contract with an entity that fails to comply with these standards. In such a case, the public agency shall document its unsuccessful attempts to find an entity in compliance with the standards.
§ 115.213
Supervision and monitoring.
(a) For each facility, the agency shall develop and document a staffing plan that provides for adequate levels of staffing, and, where applicable, video monitoring, to protect residents against sexual abuse. In calculating adequate staffing levels and determining the need for video monitoring, agencies shall take into consideration:
(1) The physical layout of each facility;
(2) The composition of the resident population;
(3) The prevalence of substantiated and unsubstantiated incidents of sexual abuse; and
(4) Any other relevant factors.
(b) In circumstances where the staffing plan is not complied with, the facility shall document and justify all deviations from the plan.
(c) Whenever necessary, but no less frequently than once each year, the facility shall assess, determine, and document whether adjustments are needed to:
(1) The staffing plan established pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section;
(2) Prevailing staffing patterns;
(3) The facility's deployment of video monitoring systems and other monitoring technologies; and
(4) The resources the facility has available to commit to ensure adequate staffing levels.
§ 115.214
[Reserved]
§ 115.215
Limits to cross-gender viewing and searches.
(a) The facility shall not conduct cross-gender strip searches or cross-gender visual body cavity searches (meaning a search of the anal or genital opening) except in exigent circumstances or when performed by medical practitioners.
(b) As of August 20, 2015, or August 21, 2017 for a facility whose rated capacity does not exceed 50 residents, the facility shall not permit cross-gender pat-down searches of female residents, absent exigent circumstances. Facilities shall not restrict female residents' access to regularly available programming or other outside opportunities in order to comply with this provision.
(c) The facility shall document all cross-gender strip searches and cross-gender visual body cavity searches, and shall document all cross-gender pat-down searches of female residents.
(d) The facility shall implement policies and procedures that enable residents to shower, perform bodily functions, and change clothing without nonmedical staff of the opposite gender viewing their breasts, buttocks, or genitalia, except in exigent circumstances or when such viewing is incidental to routine cell checks. Such policies and procedures shall require staff of the opposite gender to announce their presence when entering an area where residents are likely to be showering, performing bodily functions, or changing clothing.
(e) The facility shall not search or physically examine a transgender or intersex resident for the sole purpose of determining the resident's genital status. If the resident's genital status is unknown, it may be determined during conversations with the resident, by reviewing medical records, or, if necessary, by learning that information as part of a broader medical examination conducted in private by a medical practitioner.
(f) The agency shall train security staff in how to conduct cross-gender pat-down searches, and searches of transgender and intersex residents, in a professional and respectful manner, and in the least intrusive manner possible, consistent with security needs.
§ 115.216
Residents with disabilities and residents who are limited English proficient.
(a) The agency shall take appropriate steps to ensure that residents with disabilities (including, for example, residents who are deaf or hard of hearing, those who are blind or have low vision, or those who have intellectual, psychiatric, or speech disabilities), have an equal opportunity to participate in or benefit from all aspects of the agency's efforts to prevent, detect, and respond to sexual abuse and sexual harassment. Such steps shall include, when necessary to ensure effective communication with residents who are deaf or hard of hearing, providing access to interpreters who can interpret effectively, accurately, and impartially, both receptively and expressively, using any necessary specialized vocabulary. In addition, the agency shall ensure that written materials are provided in formats or through methods that ensure effective communication with residents with disabilities, including residents who have intellectual disabilities, limited reading skills, or who are blind or have low vision. An agency is not required to take actions
that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a service, program, or activity, or in undue financial and administrative burdens, as those terms are used in regulations promulgated under title II of the Americans With Disabilities Act, 28 CFR 35.164.
(b) The agency shall take reasonable steps to ensure meaningful access to all aspects of the agency's efforts to prevent, detect, and respond to sexual abuse and sexual harassment to residents who are limited English proficient, including steps to provide interpreters who can interpret effectively, accurately, and impartially, both receptively and expressively, using any necessary specialized vocabulary.
(c) The agency shall not rely on resident interpreters, resident readers, or other types of resident assistants except in limited circumstances where an extended delay in obtaining an effective interpreter could compromise the resident's safety, the performance of first-response duties under § 115.264, or the investigation of the resident's allegations.
§ 115.217
Hiring and promotion decisions.
(a) The agency shall not hire or promote anyone who may have contact with residents, and shall not enlist the services of any contractor who may have contact with residents, who—
(1) Has engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, lockup, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution (as defined in 42 U.S.C. 1997);
(2) Has been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity in the community facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or if the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse; or
(3) Has been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in the activity described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(b) The agency shall consider any incidents of sexual harassment in determining whether to hire or promote anyone, or to enlist the services of any contractor, who may have contact with residents.
(c) Before hiring new employees who may have contact with residents, the agency shall:
(1) Perform a criminal background records check; and
(2) Consistent with Federal, State, and local law, make its best efforts to contact all prior institutional employers for information on substantiated allegations of sexual abuse or any resignation during a pending investigation of an allegation of sexual abuse.
(d) The agency shall also perform a criminal background records check before enlisting the services of any contractor who may have contact with residents.
(e) The agency shall either conduct criminal background records checks at least every five years of current employees and contractors who may have contact with residents or have in place a system for otherwise capturing such information for current employees.
(f) The agency shall also ask all applicants and employees who may have contact with residents directly about previous misconduct described in paragraph (a) of this section in written applications or interviews for hiring or promotions and in any interviews or written self-evaluations conducted as part of reviews of current employees. The agency shall also impose upon employees a continuing affirmative duty to disclose any such misconduct.
(g) Material omissions regarding such misconduct, or the provision of materially false information, shall be grounds for termination.
(h) Unless prohibited by law, the agency shall provide information on substantiated allegations of sexual abuse or sexual harassment involving a former employee upon receiving a request from an institutional employer for whom such employee has applied to work.
§ 115.218
Upgrades to facilities and technologies.
(a) When designing or acquiring any new facility and in planning any substantial expansion or modification of existing facilities, the agency shall consider the effect of the design, acquisition, expansion, or modification upon
the agency's ability to protect residents from sexual abuse.
(b) When installing or updating a video monitoring system, electronic surveillance system, or other monitoring technology, the agency shall consider how such technology may enhance the agency's ability to protect residents from sexual abuse.

# Responsive Planning
§ 115.221
Evidence protocol and forensic medical examinations.
(a) To the extent the agency is responsible for investigating allegations of sexual abuse, the agency shall follow a uniform evidence protocol that maximizes the potential for obtaining usable physical evidence for administrative proceedings and criminal prosecutions.
(b) The protocol shall be developmentally appropriate for youth where applicable, and, as appropriate, shall be adapted from or otherwise based on the most recent edition of the U.S. Department of Justice's Office on Violence Against Women publication, “A National Protocol for Sexual Assault Medical Forensic Examinations, Adults/Adolescents,” or similarly comprehensive and authoritative protocols developed after 2011.
(c) The agency shall offer all victims of sexual abuse access to forensic medical examinations whether on-site or at an outside facility, without financial cost, where evidentiarily or medically appropriate. Such examinations shall be performed by Sexual Assault Forensic Examiners (SAFEs) or Sexual Assault Nurse Examiners (SANEs) where possible. If SAFEs or SANEs cannot be made available, the examination can be performed by other qualified medical practitioners. The agency shall document its efforts to provide SAFEs or SANEs.
(d) The agency shall attempt to make available to the victim a victim advocate from a rape crisis center. If a rape crisis center is not available to provide victim advocate services, the agency shall make available to provide these services a qualified staff member from a community-based organization or a qualified agency staff member. Agencies shall document efforts to secure services from rape crisis centers. For the purpose of this standard, a rape crisis center refers to an entity that provides intervention and related assistance, such as the services specified in 42 U.S.C. 14043g(b)(2)(C), to victims of sexual assault of all ages. The agency may utilize a rape crisis center that is part of a governmental unit as long as the center is not part of the criminal justice system (such as a law enforcement agency) and offers a comparable level of confidentiality as a nongovernmental entity that provides similar victim services.
(e) As requested by the victim, the victim advocate, qualified agency staff member, or qualified community-based organization staff member shall accompany and support the victim through the forensic medical examination process and investigatory interviews and shall provide emotional support, crisis intervention, information, and referrals.
(f) To the extent the agency itself is not responsible for investigating allegations of sexual abuse, the agency shall request that the investigating agency follow the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
(g) The requirements of paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section shall also apply to:
(1) Any State entity outside of the agency that is responsible for investigating allegations of sexual abuse in community confinement facilities; and
(2) Any Department of Justice component that is responsible for investigating allegations of sexual abuse in community confinement facilities.
(h) For the purposes of this standard, a qualified agency staff member or a qualified community-based staff member shall be an individual who has been screened for appropriateness to serve in this role and has received education concerning sexual assault and forensic examination issues in general.
§ 115.222
Policies to ensure referrals of allegations for investigations.
(a) The agency shall ensure that an administrative or criminal investigation is completed for all allegations of sexual abuse and sexual harassment.
(b) The agency shall have in place a policy to ensure that allegations of sexual abuse or sexual harassment are referred for investigation to an agency with the legal authority to conduct criminal investigations, unless the allegation does not involve potentially criminal behavior. The agency shall publish such policy on its Web site or, if it does not have one, make the policy available through other means. The agency shall document all such referrals.
(c) If a separate entity is responsible for conducting criminal investigations, such publication shall describe the responsibilities of both the agency and the investigating entity.
(d) Any State entity responsible for conducting administrative or criminal investigations of sexual abuse or sexual harassment in community confinement facilities shall have in place a policy governing the conduct of such investigations.
(e) Any Department of Justice component responsible for conducting administrative or criminal investigations of sexual abuse or sexual harassment in community confinement facilities shall have in place a policy governing the conduct of such investigations.

# Training and Education
§ 115.231
Employee training.
(a) The agency shall train all employees who may have contact with residents on:
(1) Its zero-tolerance policy for sexual abuse and sexual harassment;
(2) How to fulfill their responsibilities under agency sexual abuse and sexual harassment prevention, detection, reporting, and response policies and procedures;
(3) Residents' right to be free from sexual abuse and sexual harassment;
(4) The right of residents and employees to be free from retaliation for reporting sexual abuse and sexual harassment;
(5) The dynamics of sexual abuse and sexual harassment in confinement;
(6) The common reactions of sexual abuse and sexual harassment victims;
(7) How to detect and respond to signs of threatened and actual sexual abuse;
(8) How to avoid inappropriate relationships with residents;
(9) How to communicate effectively and professionally with residents, including lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex, or gender nonconforming residents; and
(10) How to comply with relevant laws related to mandatory reporting of sexual abuse to outside authorities.
(b) Such training shall be tailored to the gender of the residents at the employee's facility. The employee shall receive additional training if the employee is reassigned from a facility that houses only male residents to a facility that houses only female residents, or vice versa.
(c) All current employees who have not received such training shall be trained within one year of the effective date of the PREA standards, and the agency shall provide each employee with refresher training every two years to ensure that all employees know the agency's current sexual abuse and sexual harassment policies and procedures. In years in which an employee does not receive refresher training, the agency shall provide refresher information on current sexual abuse and sexual harassment policies.
(d) The agency shall document, through employee signature or electronic verification, that employees understand the training they have received.
§ 115.232
Volunteer and contractor training.
(a) The agency shall ensure that all volunteers and contractors who have contact with residents have been trained on their responsibilities under the agency's sexual abuse and sexual harassment prevention, detection, and response policies and procedures.
(b) The level and type of training provided to volunteers and contractors shall be based on the services they provide and level of contact they have with residents, but all volunteers and contractors who have contact with residents shall be notified of the agency's zero-tolerance policy regarding sexual abuse and sexual harassment and informed how to report such incidents.
(c) The agency shall maintain documentation confirming that volunteers and contractors understand the training they have received.
§ 115.233
Resident education.
(a) During the intake process, residents shall receive information explaining the agency's zero-tolerance policy regarding sexual abuse and sexual harassment, how to report incidents or suspicions of sexual abuse or sexual harassment, their rights to be free from sexual abuse and sexual harassment and to be free from retaliation for reporting such incidents, and regarding agency policies and procedures for responding to such incidents.
(b) The agency shall provide refresher information whenever a resident is transferred to a different facility.
(c) The agency shall provide resident education in formats accessible to all residents, including those who are limited English proficient, deaf, visually impaired, or otherwise disabled as well as residents who have limited reading skills.
(d) The agency shall maintain documentation of resident participation in these education sessions.
(e) In addition to providing such education, the agency shall ensure that key information is continuously and readily available or visible to residents through posters, resident handbooks, or other written formats.
§ 115.234
Specialized training: Investigations.
(a) In addition to the general training provided to all employees pursuant to § 115.231, the agency shall ensure that, to the extent the agency itself conducts sexual abuse investigations, its investigators have received training in conducting such investigations in confinement settings.
(b) Specialized training shall include techniques for interviewing sexual abuse victims, proper use of
Miranda
and
Garrity
warnings, sexual abuse evidence collection in confinement settings, and the criteria and evidence required to substantiate a case for administrative action or prosecution referral.
(c) The agency shall maintain documentation that agency investigators have completed the required specialized training in conducting sexual abuse investigations.
(d) Any State entity or Department of Justice component that investigates sexual abuse in confinement settings shall provide such training to its agents and investigators who conduct such investigations.
§ 115.235
Specialized training: Medical and mental health care.
(a) The agency shall ensure that all full- and part-time medical and mental health care practitioners who work regularly in its facilities have been trained in:
(1) How to detect and assess signs of sexual abuse and sexual harassment;
(2) How to preserve physical evidence of sexual abuse;
(3) How to respond effectively and professionally to victims of sexual abuse and sexual harassment; and
(4) How and to whom to report allegations or suspicions of sexual abuse and sexual harassment.
(b) If medical staff employed by the agency conduct forensic examinations, such medical staff shall receive the appropriate training to conduct such examinations.
(c) The agency shall maintain documentation that medical and mental health practitioners have received the training referenced in this standard either from the agency or elsewhere.
(d) Medical and mental health care practitioners shall also receive the training mandated for employees under § 115.231 or for contractors and volunteers under § 115.232, depending upon the practitioner's status at the agency.

# Screening for Risk of Sexual Victimization and Abusiveness
§ 115.241
Screening for risk of victimization and abusiveness.
(a) All residents shall be assessed during an intake screening and upon transfer to another facility for their risk of being sexually abused by other residents or sexually abusive toward other residents.
(b) Intake screening shall ordinarily take place within 72 hours of arrival at the facility.
(c) Such assessments shall be conducted using an objective screening instrument.
(d) The intake screening shall consider, at a minimum, the following criteria to assess residents for risk of sexual victimization:
(1) Whether the resident has a mental, physical, or developmental disability;
(2) The age of the resident;
(3) The physical build of the resident;
(4) Whether the resident has previously been incarcerated;
(5) Whether the resident's criminal history is exclusively nonviolent;
(6) Whether the resident has prior convictions for sex offenses against an adult or child;
(7) Whether the resident is or is perceived to be gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, intersex, or gender nonconforming;
(8) Whether the resident has previously experienced sexual victimization; and
(9) The resident's own perception of vulnerability.
(e) The intake screening shall consider prior acts of sexual abuse, prior convictions for violent offenses, and history of prior institutional violence or sexual abuse, as known to the agency, in assessing residents for risk of being sexually abusive.
(f) Within a set time period, not to exceed 30 days from the resident's arrival at the facility, the facility will reassess the resident's risk of victimization or abusiveness based upon any additional, relevant information received by the facility since the intake screening.
(g) A resident's risk level shall be reassessed when warranted due to a referral, request, incident of sexual abuse, or receipt of additional information that bears on the resident's risk of sexual victimization or abusiveness.
(h) Residents may not be disciplined for refusing to answer, or for not disclosing complete information in response to, questions asked pursuant to paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(7), (d)(8), or (d)(9) of this section.
(i) The agency shall implement appropriate controls on the dissemination within the facility of responses to questions asked pursuant to this standard in order to ensure that sensitive information is not exploited to the resident's detriment by staff or other residents.
§ 115.242
Use of screening information.
(a) The agency shall use information from the risk screening required by § 115.241 to inform housing, bed, work, education, and program assignments with the goal of keeping separate those residents at high risk of being sexually victimized from those at high risk of being sexually abusive.
(b) The agency shall make individualized determinations about how to ensure the safety of each resident.
(c) In deciding whether to assign a transgender or intersex resident to a facility for male or female residents, and in making other housing and programming assignments, the agency shall consider on a case-by-case basis whether a placement would ensure the resident's health and safety, and whether the placement would present management or security problems.
(d) A transgender or intersex resident's own views with respect to his or her own safety shall be given serious consideration.
(e) Transgender and intersex residents shall be given the opportunity to shower separately from other residents.
(f) The agency shall not place lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or intersex residents in dedicated facilities, units, or wings solely on the basis of such identification or status, unless such placement is in a dedicated facility unit, or wing established in connection with a consent decree, legal settlement, or legal judgment for the purpose of protecting such residents.
§ 115.243
[Reserved]

# Reporting
§ 115.251
Resident reporting.
(a) The agency shall provide multiple internal ways for residents to privately report sexual abuse and sexual harassment, retaliation by other residents or staff for reporting sexual abuse and sexual harassment, and staff neglect or violation of responsibilities that may have contributed to such incidents.
(b) The agency shall also inform residents of at least one way to report abuse or harassment to a public or private entity or office that is not part of the agency and that is able to receive and immediately forward resident reports of sexual abuse and sexual harassment to agency officials, allowing the resident to remain anonymous upon request.
(c) Staff shall accept reports made verbally, in writing, anonymously, and from third parties and shall promptly document any verbal reports.
(d) The agency shall provide a method for staff to privately report sexual abuse and sexual harassment of residents.
§ 115.252
Exhaustion of administrative remedies.
(a) An agency shall be exempt from this standard if it does not have administrative procedures to address resident grievances regarding sexual abuse.
(b)(1) The agency shall not impose a time limit on when a resident may submit a grievance regarding an allegation of sexual abuse.
(2) The agency may apply otherwise-applicable time limits on any portion of a grievance that does not allege an incident of sexual abuse.
(3) The agency shall not require a resident to use any informal grievance process, or to otherwise attempt to resolve with staff, an alleged incident of sexual abuse.
(4) Nothing in this section shall restrict the agency's ability to defend against a lawsuit filed by a resident on the ground that the applicable statute of limitations has expired.
(c) The agency shall ensure that—
(1) A resident who alleges sexual abuse may submit a grievance without submitting it to a staff member who is the subject of the complaint, and
(2) Such grievance is not referred to a staff member who is the subject of the complaint.
(d)(1) The agency shall issue a final agency decision on the merits of any portion of a grievance alleging sexual abuse within 90 days of the initial filing of the grievance.
(2) Computation of the 90-day time period shall not include time consumed by residents in preparing any administrative appeal.
(3) The agency may claim an extension of time to respond, of up to 70 days, if the normal time period for response is insufficient to make an appropriate decision. The agency shall notify the resident in writing of any such extension and provide a date by which a decision will be made.
(4) At any level of the administrative process, including the final level, if the resident does not receive a response within the time allotted for reply, including any properly noticed extension, the resident may consider the absence of a response to be a denial at that level.
(e)(1) Third parties, including fellow residents, staff members, family members, attorneys, and outside advocates, shall be permitted to assist residents in filing requests for administrative remedies relating to allegations of sexual abuse, and shall also be permitted to file such requests on behalf of residents.
(2) If a third party files such a request on behalf of a resident, the facility may require as a condition of processing the request that the alleged victim agree to have the request filed on his or her behalf, and may also require the alleged victim to personally pursue any subsequent steps in the administrative remedy process.
(3) If the resident declines to have the request processed on his or her behalf, the agency shall document the resident's decision.
(f)(1) The agency shall establish procedures for the filing of an emergency grievance alleging that a resident is subject to a substantial risk of imminent sexual abuse.
(2) After receiving an emergency grievance alleging a resident is subject to a substantial risk of imminent sexual abuse, the agency shall immediately forward the grievance (or any portion thereof that alleges the substantial risk of imminent sexual abuse) to a level of review at which immediate corrective action may be taken, shall provide an initial response within 48 hours, and shall issue a final agency decision within 5 calendar days. The
initial response and final agency decision shall document the agency's determination whether the resident is in substantial risk of imminent sexual abuse and the action taken in response to the emergency grievance.
(g) The agency may discipline a resident for filing a grievance related to alleged sexual abuse only where the agency demonstrates that the resident filed the grievance in bad faith.
§ 115.253
Resident access to outside confidential support services.
(a) The facility shall provide residents with access to outside victim advocates for emotional support services related to sexual abuse by giving residents mailing addresses and telephone numbers, including toll-free hotline numbers where available, of local, State, or national victim advocacy or rape crisis organizations, and by enabling reasonable communication between residents and these organizations, in as confidential a manner as possible.
(b) The facility shall inform residents, prior to giving them access, of the extent to which such communications will be monitored and the extent to which reports of abuse will be forwarded to authorities in accordance with mandatory reporting laws.
(c) The agency shall maintain or attempt to enter into memoranda of understanding or other agreements with community service providers that are able to provide residents with confidential emotional support services related to sexual abuse. The agency shall maintain copies of agreements or documentation showing attempts to enter into such agreements.
§ 115.254
Third-party reporting.
The agency shall establish a method to receive third-party reports of sexual abuse and sexual harassment and shall distribute publicly information on how to report sexual abuse and sexual harassment on behalf of a resident.

# Official Response Following a Resident Report
§ 115.261
Staff and agency reporting duties.
(a) The agency shall require all staff to report immediately and according to agency policy any knowledge, suspicion, or information regarding an incident of sexual abuse or sexual harassment that occurred in a facility, whether or not it is part of the agency; retaliation against residents or staff who reported such an incident; and any staff neglect or violation of responsibilities that may have contributed to an incident or retaliation.
(b) Apart from reporting to designated supervisors or officials, staff shall not reveal any information related to a sexual abuse report to anyone other than to the extent necessary, as specified in agency policy, to make treatment, investigation, and other security and management decisions.
(c) Unless otherwise precluded by Federal, State, or local law, medical and mental health practitioners shall be required to report sexual abuse pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section and to inform residents of the practitioner's duty to report, and the limitations of confidentiality, at the initiation of services.
(d) If the alleged victim is under the age of 18 or considered a vulnerable adult under a State or local vulnerable persons statute, the agency shall report the allegation to the designated State or local services agency under applicable mandatory reporting laws.
(e) The facility shall report all allegations of sexual abuse and sexual harassment, including third-party and anonymous reports, to the facility's designated investigators.
§ 115.262
Agency protection duties.
When an agency learns that a resident is subject to a substantial risk of imminent sexual abuse, it shall take immediate action to protect the resident.
§ 115.263
Reporting to other confinement facilities.
(a) Upon receiving an allegation that a resident was sexually abused while confined at another facility, the head
of the facility that received the allegation shall notify the head of the facility or appropriate office of the agency where the alleged abuse occurred.
(b) Such notification shall be provided as soon as possible, but no later than 72 hours after receiving the allegation.
(c) The agency shall document that it has provided such notification.
(d) The facility head or agency office that receives such notification shall ensure that the allegation is investigated in accordance with these standards.
§ 115.264
Staff first responder duties.
(a) Upon learning of an allegation that a resident was sexually abused, the first security staff member to respond to the report shall be required to:
(1) Separate the alleged victim and abuser;
(2) Preserve and protect any crime scene until appropriate steps can be taken to collect any evidence;
(3) If the abuse occurred within a time period that still allows for the collection of physical evidence, request that the alleged victim not take any actions that could destroy physical evidence, including, as appropriate, washing, brushing teeth, changing clothes, urinating, defecating, smoking, drinking, or eating; and
(4) If the abuse occurred within a time period that still allows for the collection of physical evidence, ensure that the alleged abuser does not take any actions that could destroy physical evidence, including, as appropriate, washing, brushing teeth, changing clothes, urinating, defecating, smoking, drinking, or eating.
(b) If the first staff responder is not a security staff member, the responder shall be required to request that the alleged victim not take any actions that could destroy physical evidence and then notify security staff.
§ 115.265
Coordinated response.
The facility shall develop a written institutional plan to coordinate actions taken in response to an incident of sexual abuse, among staff first responders, medical and mental health practitioners, investigators, and facility leadership.
§ 115.266
Preservation of ability to protect residents from contact with abusers
(a) Neither the agency nor any other governmental entity responsible for collective bargaining on the agency's behalf shall enter into or renew any collective bargaining agreement or other agreement that limits the agency's ability to remove alleged staff sexual abusers from contact with residents pending the outcome of an investigation or of a determination of whether and to what extent discipline is warranted.
(b) Nothing in this standard shall restrict the entering into or renewal of agreements that govern:
(1) The conduct of the disciplinary process, as long as such agreements are not inconsistent with the provisions of §§ 115.272 and 115.276; or
(2) Whether a no-contact assignment that is imposed pending the outcome of an investigation shall be expunged from or retained in the staff member's personnel file following a determination that the allegation of sexual abuse is not substantiated.
§ 115.267
Agency protection against retaliation.
(a) The agency shall establish a policy to protect all residents and staff who report sexual abuse or sexual harassment or cooperate with sexual abuse or sexual harassment investigations from retaliation by other residents or staff and shall designate which staff members or departments are charged with monitoring retaliation.
(b) The agency shall employ multiple protection measures, such as housing changes or transfers for resident victims or abusers, removal of alleged staff or resident abusers from contact with victims, and emotional support services for residents or staff who fear retaliation for reporting sexual abuse or sexual harassment or for cooperating with investigations.
(c) For at least 90 days following a report of sexual abuse, the agency shall monitor the conduct and treatment of
residents or staff who reported the sexual abuse and of residents who were reported to have suffered sexual abuse to see if there are changes that may suggest possible retaliation by residents or staff, and shall act promptly to remedy any such retaliation. Items the agency should monitor include any resident disciplinary reports, housing, or program changes, or negative performance reviews or reassignments of staff. The agency shall continue such monitoring beyond 90 days if the initial monitoring indicates a continuing need.
(d) In the case of residents, such monitoring shall also include periodic status checks.
(e) If any other individual who cooperates with an investigation expresses a fear of retaliation, the agency shall take appropriate measures to protect that individual against retaliation.
(f) An agency's obligation to monitor shall terminate if the agency determines that the allegation is unfounded.
§ 115.268
[Reserved]

# Investigations
§ 115.271
Criminal and administrative agency investigations.
(a) When the agency conducts its own investigations into allegations of sexual abuse and sexual harassment, it shall do so promptly, thoroughly, and objectively for all allegations, including third-party and anonymous reports.
(b) Where sexual abuse is alleged, the agency shall use investigators who have received special training in sexual abuse investigations pursuant to § 115.234.
(c) Investigators shall gather and preserve direct and circumstantial evidence, including any available physical and DNA evidence and any available electronic monitoring data; shall interview alleged victims, suspected perpetrators, and witnesses; and shall review prior complaints and reports of sexual abuse involving the suspected perpetrator.
(d) When the quality of evidence appears to support criminal prosecution, the agency shall conduct compelled interviews only after consulting with prosecutors as to whether compelled interviews may be an obstacle for subsequent criminal prosecution.
(e) The credibility of an alleged victim, suspect, or witness shall be assessed on an individual basis and shall not be determined by the person's status as resident or staff. No agency shall require a resident who alleges sexual abuse to submit to a polygraph examination or other truth-telling device as a condition for proceeding with the investigation of such an allegation.
(f) Administrative investigations:
(1) Shall include an effort to determine whether staff actions or failures to act contributed to the abuse; and
(2) Shall be documented in written reports that include a description of the physical and testimonial evidence, the reasoning behind credibility assessments, and investigative facts and findings.
(g) Criminal investigations shall be documented in a written report that contains a thorough description of physical, testimonial, and documentary evidence and attaches copies of all documentary evidence where feasible.
(h) Substantiated allegations of conduct that appears to be criminal shall be referred for prosecution.
(i) The agency shall retain all written reports referenced in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section for as long as the alleged abuser is incarcerated or employed by the agency, plus five years.
(j) The departure of the alleged abuser or victim from the employment or control of the facility or agency shall not provide a basis for terminating an investigation.
(k) Any State entity or Department of Justice component that conducts such investigations shall do so pursuant to the above requirements.
(l) When outside agencies investigate sexual abuse, the facility shall cooperate with outside investigators and shall endeavor to remain informed about the progress of the investigation.
§ 115.272
Evidentiary standard for administrative investigations.
The agency shall impose no standard higher than a preponderance of the evidence in determining whether allegations of sexual abuse or sexual harassment are substantiated.
§ 115.273
Reporting to residents.
(a) Following an investigation into a resident's allegation of sexual abuse suffered in an agency facility, the agency shall inform the resident as to whether the allegation has been determined to be substantiated, unsubstantiated, or unfounded.
(b) If the agency did not conduct the investigation, it shall request the relevant information from the investigative agency in order to inform the resident.
(c) Following a resident's allegation that a staff member has committed sexual abuse against the resident, the agency shall subsequently inform the resident (unless the agency has determined that the allegation is unfounded) whenever:
(1) The staff member is no longer posted within the resident's unit;
(2) The staff member is no longer employed at the facility;
(3) The agency learns that the staff member has been indicted on a charge related to sexual abuse within the facility; or
(4) The agency learns that the staff member has been convicted on a charge related to sexual abuse within the facility.
(d) Following a resident's allegation that he or she has been sexually abused by another resident, the agency shall subsequently inform the alleged victim whenever:
(1) The agency learns that the alleged abuser has been indicted on a charge related to sexual abuse within the facility; or
(2) The agency learns that the alleged abuser has been convicted on a charge related to sexual abuse within the facility.
(e) All such notifications or attempted notifications shall be documented.
(f) An agency's obligation to report under this standard shall terminate if the resident is released from the agency's custody.

# Discipline
§ 115.276
Disciplinary sanctions for staff.
(a) Staff shall be subject to disciplinary sanctions up to and including termination for violating agency sexual abuse or sexual harassment policies.
(b) Termination shall be the presumptive disciplinary sanction for staff who have engaged in sexual abuse.
(c) Disciplinary sanctions for violations of agency policies relating to sexual abuse or sexual harassment (other than actually engaging in sexual abuse) shall be commensurate with the nature and circumstances of the acts committed, the staff member's disciplinary history, and the sanctions imposed for comparable offenses by other staff with similar histories.
(d) All terminations for violations of agency sexual abuse or sexual harassment policies, or resignations by staff who would have been terminated if not for their resignation, shall be reported to law enforcement agencies, unless the activity was clearly not criminal, and to any relevant licensing bodies.
§ 115.277
Corrective action for contractors and volunteers.
(a) Any contractor or volunteer who engages in sexual abuse shall be prohibited from contact with residents and shall be reported to law enforcement agencies, unless the activity was clearly not criminal, and to relevant licensing bodies.
(b) The facility shall take appropriate remedial measures, and shall consider whether to prohibit further contact with residents, in the case of any other violation of agency sexual abuse or sexual harassment policies by a contractor or volunteer.
§ 115.278
Disciplinary sanctions for residents.
(a) Residents shall be subject to disciplinary sanctions pursuant to a formal disciplinary process following an administrative finding that the resident engaged in resident-on-resident sexual abuse or following a criminal finding of guilt for resident-on-resident sexual abuse.
(b) Sanctions shall be commensurate with the nature and circumstances of the abuse committed, the resident's disciplinary history, and the sanctions imposed for comparable offenses by other residents with similar histories.
(c) The disciplinary process shall consider whether a resident's mental
disabilities or mental illness contributed to his or her behavior when determining what type of sanction, if any, should be imposed.
(d) If the facility offers therapy, counseling, or other interventions designed to address and correct underlying reasons or motivations for the abuse, the facility shall consider whether to require the offending resident to participate in such interventions as a condition of access to programming or other benefits.
(e) The agency may discipline a resident for sexual contact with staff only upon a finding that the staff member did not consent to such contact.
(f) For the purpose of disciplinary action, a report of sexual abuse made in good faith based upon a reasonable belief that the alleged conduct occurred shall not constitute falsely reporting an incident or lying, even if an investigation does not establish evidence sufficient to substantiate the allegation.
(g) An agency may, in its discretion, prohibit all sexual activity between residents and may discipline residents for such activity. An agency may not, however, deem such activity to constitute sexual abuse if it determines that the activity is not coerced.

# Medical and Mental Care
§ 115.281
[Reserved]
§ 115.282
Access to emergency medical and mental health services.
(a) Resident victims of sexual abuse shall receive timely, unimpeded access to emergency medical treatment and crisis intervention services, the nature and scope of which are determined by medical and mental health practitioners according to their professional judgment.
(b) If no qualified medical or mental health practitioners are on duty at the time a report of recent abuse is made, security staff first responders shall take preliminary steps to protect the victim pursuant to § 115.262 and shall immediately notify the appropriate medical and mental health practitioners.
(c) Resident victims of sexual abuse while incarcerated shall be offered timely information about and timely access to emergency contraception and sexually transmitted infections prophylaxis, in accordance with professionally accepted standards of care, where medically appropriate.
(d) Treatment services shall be provided to the victim without financial cost and regardless of whether the victim names the abuser or cooperates with any investigation arising out of the incident.
§ 115.283
Ongoing medical and mental health care for sexual abuse victims and abusers.
(a) The facility shall offer medical and mental health evaluation and, as appropriate, treatment to all residents who have been victimized by sexual abuse in any prison, jail, lockup, or juvenile facility.
(b) The evaluation and treatment of such victims shall include, as appropriate, follow-up services, treatment plans, and, when necessary, referrals for continued care following their transfer to, or placement in, other facilities, or their release from custody.
(c) The facility shall provide such victims with medical and mental health services consistent with the community level of care.
(d) Resident victims of sexually abusive vaginal penetration while incarcerated shall be offered pregnancy tests.
(e) If pregnancy results from conduct specified in paragraph (d) of this section, such victims shall receive timely and comprehensive information about and timely access to all lawful pregnancy-related medical services.
(f) Resident victims of sexual abuse while incarcerated shall be offered tests for sexually transmitted infections as medically appropriate.
(g) Treatment services shall be provided to the victim without financial cost and regardless of whether the victim names the abuser or cooperates with any investigation arising out of the incident.
(h) The facility shall attempt to conduct a mental health evaluation of all known resident-on-resident abusers within 60 days of learning of such abuse history and offer treatment when deemed appropriate by mental health practitioners.

# Data Collection and Review
§ 115.286
Sexual abuse incident reviews.
(a) The facility shall conduct a sexual abuse incident review at the conclusion of every sexual abuse investigation, including where the allegation has not been substantiated, unless the allegation has been determined to be unfounded.
(b) Such review shall ordinarily occur within 30 days of the conclusion of the investigation.
(c) The review team shall include upper-level management officials, with input from line supervisors, investigators, and medical or mental health practitioners.
(d) The review team shall:
(1) Consider whether the allegation or investigation indicates a need to change policy or practice to better prevent, detect, or respond to sexual abuse;
(2) Consider whether the incident or allegation was motivated by race; ethnicity; gender identity; lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or intersex identification, status, or perceived status; or gang affiliation; or was motivated or otherwise caused by other group dynamics at the facility;
(3) Examine the area in the facility where the incident allegedly occurred to assess whether physical barriers in the area may enable abuse;
(4) Assess the adequacy of staffing levels in that area during different shifts;
(5) Assess whether monitoring technology should be deployed or augmented to supplement supervision by staff; and
(6) Prepare a report of its findings, including but not necessarily limited to determinations made pursuant to paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(5) of this section, and any recommendations for improvement, and submit such report to the facility head and PREA compliance manager.
(e) The facility shall implement the recommendations for improvement, or shall document its reasons for not doing so.
§ 115.287
Data collection.
(a) The agency shall collect accurate, uniform data for every allegation of sexual abuse at facilities under its direct control using a standardized instrument and set of definitions.
(b) The agency shall aggregate the incident-based sexual abuse data at least annually.
(c) The incident-based data collected shall include, at a minimum, the data necessary to answer all questions from the most recent version of the Survey of Sexual Violence conducted by the Department of Justice.
(d) The agency shall maintain, review, and collect data as needed from all available incident-based documents including reports, investigation files, and sexual abuse incident reviews.
(e) The agency also shall obtain incident-based and aggregated data from every private facility with which it contracts for the confinement of its residents.
(f) Upon request, the agency shall provide all such data from the previous calendar year to the Department of Justice no later than June 30.
§ 115.288
Data review for corrective action.
(a) The agency shall review data collected and aggregated pursuant to § 115.287 in order to assess and improve the effectiveness of its sexual abuse prevention, detection, and response policies, practices, and training, including:
(1) Identifying problem areas;
(2) Taking corrective action on an ongoing basis; and
(3) Preparing an annual report of its findings and corrective actions for each facility, as well as the agency as a whole.
(b) Such report shall include a comparison of the current year's data and corrective actions with those from prior years and shall provide an assessment of the agency's progress in addressing sexual abuse.
(c) The agency's report shall be approved by the agency head and made readily available to the public through its Web site or, if it does not have one, through other means.
(d) The agency may redact specific material from the reports when publication would present a clear and specific threat to the safety and security of a facility, but must indicate the nature of the material redacted.
§ 115.289
Data storage, publication, and destruction.
(a) The agency shall ensure that data collected pursuant to § 115.287 are securely retained.
(b) The agency shall make all aggregated sexual abuse data, from facilities under its direct control and private facilities with which it contracts, readily available to the public at least annually through its Web site or, if it does not have one, through other means.
(c) Before making aggregated sexual abuse data publicly available, the agency shall remove all personal identifiers.
(d) The agency shall maintain sexual abuse data collected pursuant to § 115.287 for at least 10 years after the date of the initial collection unless Federal, State, or local law requires otherwise.

# Audits
§ 115.293
Audits of standards.
The agency shall conduct audits pursuant to §§ 115.401 through 115.405.

# Subpart D—Standards for Juvenile Facilities

# Prevention Planning
§ 115.311
Zero tolerance of sexual abuse and sexual harassment; PREA coordinator.
(a) An agency shall have a written policy mandating zero tolerance toward all forms of sexual abuse and sexual harassment and outlining the agency's approach to preventing, detecting, and responding to such conduct.
(b) An agency shall employ or designate an upper-level, agency-wide PREA coordinator with sufficient time and authority to develop, implement, and oversee agency efforts to comply with the PREA standards in all of its facilities.
(c) Where an agency operates more than one facility, each facility shall designate a PREA compliance manager with sufficient time and authority to coordinate the facility's efforts to comply with the PREA standards.
§ 115.312
Contracting with other entities for the confinement of residents.
(a) A public agency that contracts for the confinement of its residents with private agencies or other entities, including other government agencies, shall include in any new contract or contract renewal the entity's obligation to adopt and comply with the PREA standards.
(b) Any new contract or contract renewal shall provide for agency contract monitoring to ensure that the contractor is complying with the PREA standards.
§ 115.313
Supervision and monitoring.
(a) The agency shall ensure that each facility it operates shall develop, implement, and document a staffing plan that provides for adequate levels of staffing, and, where applicable, video monitoring, to protect residents against sexual abuse. In calculating adequate staffing levels and determining the need for video monitoring, facilities shall take into consideration:
(1) Generally accepted juvenile detention and correctional/secure residential practices;
(2) Any judicial findings of inadequacy;
(3) Any findings of inadequacy from Federal investigative agencies;
(4) Any findings of inadequacy from internal or external oversight bodies;
(5) All components of the facility's physical plant (including “blind spots” or areas where staff or residents may be isolated);
(6) The composition of the resident population;
(7) The number and placement of supervisory staff;
(8) Institution programs occurring on a particular shift;
(9) Any applicable State or local laws, regulations, or standards;
(10) The prevalence of substantiated and unsubstantiated incidents of sexual abuse; and
(11) Any other relevant factors.
(b) The agency shall comply with the staffing plan except during limited and discrete exigent circumstances, and shall fully document deviations from the plan during such circumstances.
(c) Each secure juvenile facility shall maintain staff ratios of a minimum of 1:8 during resident waking hours and 1:16 during resident sleeping hours, except during limited and discrete exigent circumstances, which shall be fully documented. Only security staff shall be included in these ratios. Any facility that, as of the date of publication of this final rule, is not already obligated by law, regulation, or judicial consent decree to maintain the staffing ratios set forth in this paragraph shall have until October 1, 2017, to achieve compliance.
(d) Whenever necessary, but no less frequently than once each year, for each facility the agency operates, in consultation with the PREA coordinator required by § 115.311, the agency shall assess, determine, and document whether adjustments are needed to:
(1) The staffing plan established pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section;
(2) Prevailing staffing patterns;
(3) The facility's deployment of video monitoring systems and other monitoring technologies; and
(4) The resources the facility has available to commit to ensure adherence to the staffing plan.
(e) Each secure facility shall implement a policy and practice of having intermediate-level or higher level supervisors conduct and document unannounced rounds to identify and deter staff sexual abuse and sexual harassment. Such policy and practice shall be implemented for night shifts as well as day shifts. Each secure facility shall have a policy to prohibit staff from alerting other staff members that these supervisory rounds are occurring, unless such announcement is related to the legitimate operational functions of the facility.
§ 115.314
[Reserved]
§ 115.315
Limits to cross-gender viewing and searches.
(a) The facility shall not conduct cross-gender strip searches or cross-gender visual body cavity searches (meaning a search of the anal or genital opening) except in exigent circumstances or when performed by medical practitioners.
(b) The agency shall not conduct cross-gender pat-down searches except in exigent circumstances.
(c) The facility shall document and justify all cross-gender strip searches, cross-gender visual body cavity searches, and cross-gender pat-down searches.
(d) The facility shall implement policies and procedures that enable residents to shower, perform bodily functions, and change clothing without nonmedical staff of the opposite gender viewing their breasts, buttocks, or genitalia, except in exigent circumstances or when such viewing is incidental to routine cell checks. Such policies and procedures shall require staff of the opposite gender to announce their presence when entering a resident housing unit. In facilities (such as group homes) that do not contain discrete housing units, staff of the opposite gender shall be required to announce their presence when entering an area where residents are likely to be showering, performing bodily functions, or changing clothing.
(e) The facility shall not search or physically examine a transgender or intersex resident for the sole purpose of determining the resident's genital status. If the resident's genital status is unknown, it may be determined during conversations with the resident, by reviewing medical records, or, if necessary, by learning that information as part of a broader medical examination conducted in private by a medical practitioner.
(f) The agency shall train security staff in how to conduct cross-gender pat-down searches, and searches of transgender and intersex residents, in a professional and respectful manner, and in the least intrusive manner possible, consistent with security needs.
§ 115.316
Residents with disabilities and residents who are limited English proficient.
(a) The agency shall take appropriate steps to ensure that residents with disabilities (including, for example, residents who are deaf or hard of hearing,
those who are blind or have low vision, or those who have intellectual, psychiatric, or speech disabilities), have an equal opportunity to participate in or benefit from all aspects of the agency's efforts to prevent, detect, and respond to sexual abuse and sexual harassment. Such steps shall include, when necessary to ensure effective communication with residents who are deaf or hard of hearing, providing access to interpreters who can interpret effectively, accurately, and impartially, both receptively and expressively, using any necessary specialized vocabulary. In addition, the agency shall ensure that written materials are provided in formats or through methods that ensure effective communication with residents with disabilities, including residents who have intellectual disabilities, limited reading skills, or who are blind or have low vision. An agency is not required to take actions that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a service, program, or activity, or in undue financial and administrative burdens, as those terms are used in regulations promulgated under title II of the Americans With Disabilities Act, 28 CFR 35.164.
(b) The agency shall take reasonable steps to ensure meaningful access to all aspects of the agency's efforts to prevent, detect, and respond to sexual abuse and sexual harassment to residents who are limited English proficient, including steps to provide interpreters who can interpret effectively, accurately, and impartially, both receptively and expressively, using any necessary specialized vocabulary.
(c) The agency shall not rely on resident interpreters, resident readers, or other types of resident assistants except in limited circumstances where an extended delay in obtaining an effective interpreter could compromise the resident's safety, the performance of first-response duties under § 115.364, or the investigation of the resident's allegations.
§ 115.317
Hiring and promotion decisions.
(a) The agency shall not hire or promote anyone who may have contact with residents, and shall not enlist the services of any contractor who may have contact with residents, who—
(1) Has engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, lockup, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution (as defined in 42 U.S.C. 1997);
(2) Has been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity in the community facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or if the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse; or
(3) Has been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in the activity described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(b) The agency shall consider any incidents of sexual harassment in determining whether to hire or promote anyone, or to enlist the services of any contractor, who may have contact with residents.
(c) Before hiring new employees who may have contact with residents, the agency shall:
(1) Perform a criminal background records check;
(2) Consult any child abuse registry maintained by the State or locality in which the employee would work; and
(3) Consistent with Federal, State, and local law, make its best efforts to contact all prior institutional employers for information on substantiated allegations of sexual abuse or any resignation during a pending investigation of an allegation of sexual abuse.
(d) The agency shall also perform a criminal background records check, and consult applicable child abuse registries, before enlisting the services of any contractor who may have contact with residents.
(e) The agency shall either conduct criminal background records checks at least every five years of current employees and contractors who may have contact with residents or have in place a system for otherwise capturing such information for current employees.
(f) The agency shall also ask all applicants and employees who may have contact with residents directly about previous misconduct described in paragraph (a) of this section in written applications or interviews for hiring or
promotions and in any interviews or written self-evaluations conducted as part of reviews of current employees. The agency shall also impose upon employees a continuing affirmative duty to disclose any such misconduct.
(g) Material omissions regarding such misconduct, or the provision of materially false information, shall be grounds for termination.
(h) Unless prohibited by law, the agency shall provide information on substantiated allegations of sexual abuse or sexual harassment involving a former employee upon receiving a request from an institutional employer for whom such employee has applied to work.
§ 115.318
Upgrades to facilities and technologies.
(a) When designing or acquiring any new facility and in planning any substantial expansion or modification of existing facilities, the agency shall consider the effect of the design, acquisition, expansion, or modification upon the agency's ability to protect residents from sexual abuse.
(b) When installing or updating a video monitoring system, electronic surveillance system, or other monitoring technology, the agency shall consider how such technology may enhance the agency's ability to protect residents from sexual abuse.

# Responsive Planning
§ 115.321
Evidence protocol and forensic medical examinations.
(a) To the extent the agency is responsible for investigating allegations of sexual abuse, the agency shall follow a uniform evidence protocol that maximizes the potential for obtaining usable physical evidence for administrative proceedings and criminal prosecutions.
(b) The protocol shall be developmentally appropriate for youth and, as appropriate, shall be adapted from or otherwise based on the most recent edition of the U.S. Department of Justice's Office on Violence Against Women publication, “A National Protocol for Sexual Assault Medical Forensic Examinations, Adults/Adolescents,” or similarly comprehensive and authoritative protocols developed after 2011.
(c) The agency shall offer all residents who experience sexual abuse access to forensic medical examinations whether on-site or at an outside facility, without financial cost, where evidentiarily or medically appropriate. Such examinations shall be performed by Sexual Assault Forensic Examiners (SAFEs) or Sexual Assault Nurse Examiners (SANEs) where possible. If SAFEs or SANEs cannot be made available, the examination can be performed by other qualified medical practitioners. The agency shall document its efforts to provide SAFEs or SANEs.
(d) The agency shall attempt to make available to the victim a victim advocate from a rape crisis center. If a rape crisis center is not available to provide victim advocate services, the agency shall make available to provide these services a qualified staff member from a community-based organization or a qualified agency staff member. Agencies shall document efforts to secure services from rape crisis centers. For the purpose of this standard, a rape crisis center refers to an entity that provides intervention and related assistance, such as the services specified in 42 U.S.C. 14043g(b)(2)(C), to victims of sexual assault of all ages. The agency may utilize a rape crisis center that is part of a governmental unit as long as the center is not part of the criminal justice system (such as a law enforcement agency) and offers a comparable level of confidentiality as a nongovernmental entity that provides similar victim services.
(e) As requested by the victim, the victim advocate, qualified agency staff member, or qualified community-based organization staff member shall accompany and support the victim through the forensic medical examination process and investigatory interviews and shall provide emotional support, crisis intervention, information, and referrals.
(f) To the extent the agency itself is not responsible for investigating allegations of sexual abuse, the agency shall request that the investigating agency follow the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
(g) The requirements of paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section shall also apply to:
(1) Any State entity outside of the agency that is responsible for investigating allegations of sexual abuse in juvenile facilities; and
(2) Any Department of Justice component that is responsible for investigating allegations of sexual abuse in juvenile facilities.
(h) For the purposes of this standard, a qualified agency staff member or a qualified community-based staff member shall be an individual who has been screened for appropriateness to serve in this role and has received education concerning sexual assault and forensic examination issues in general.
§ 115.322
Policies to ensure referrals of allegations for investigations.
(a) The agency shall ensure that an administrative or criminal investigation is completed for all allegations of sexual abuse and sexual harassment.
(b) The agency shall have in place a policy to ensure that allegations of sexual abuse or sexual harassment are referred for investigation to an agency with the legal authority to conduct criminal investigations, unless the allegation does not involve potentially criminal behavior. The agency shall publish such policy on its Web site or, if it does not have one, make the policy available through other means. The agency shall document all such referrals.
(c) If a separate entity is responsible for conducting criminal investigations, such publication shall describe the responsibilities of both the agency and the investigating entity.
(d) Any State entity responsible for conducting administrative or criminal investigations of sexual abuse or sexual harassment in juvenile facilities shall have in place a policy governing the conduct of such investigations.
(e) Any Department of Justice component responsible for conducting administrative or criminal investigations of sexual abuse or sexual harassment in juvenile facilities shall have in place a policy governing the conduct of such investigations.

# Training and Education
§ 115.331
Employee training.
(a) The agency shall train all employees who may have contact with residents on:
(1) Its zero-tolerance policy for sexual abuse and sexual harassment;
(2) How to fulfill their responsibilities under agency sexual abuse and sexual harassment prevention, detection, reporting, and response policies and procedures;
(3) Residents' right to be free from sexual abuse and sexual harassment;
(4) The right of residents and employees to be free from retaliation for reporting sexual abuse and sexual harassment;
(5) The dynamics of sexual abuse and sexual harassment in juvenile facilities;
(6) The common reactions of juvenile victims of sexual abuse and sexual harassment;
(7) How to detect and respond to signs of threatened and actual sexual abuse and how to distinguish between consensual sexual contact and sexual abuse between residents;
(8) How to avoid inappropriate relationships with residents;
(9) How to communicate effectively and professionally with residents, including lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex, or gender nonconforming residents; and
(10) How to comply with relevant laws related to mandatory reporting of sexual abuse to outside authorities;
(11) Relevant laws regarding the applicable age of consent.
(b) Such training shall be tailored to the unique needs and attributes of residents of juvenile facilities and to the gender of the residents at the employee's facility. The employee shall receive additional training if the employee is reassigned from a facility that houses only male residents to a facility that houses only female residents, or vice versa.
(c) All current employees who have not received such training shall be trained within one year of the effective date of the PREA standards, and the agency shall provide each employee with refresher training every two years to ensure that all employees know the
agency's current sexual abuse and sexual harassment policies and procedures. In years in which an employee does not receive refresher training, the agency shall provide refresher information on current sexual abuse and sexual harassment policies.
(d) The agency shall document, through employee signature or electronic verification, that employees understand the training they have received.
§ 115.332
Volunteer and contractor training.
(a) The agency shall ensure that all volunteers and contractors who have contact with residents have been trained on their responsibilities under the agency's sexual abuse and sexual harassment prevention, detection, and response policies and procedures.
(b) The level and type of training provided to volunteers and contractors shall be based on the services they provide and level of contact they have with residents, but all volunteers and contractors who have contact with residents shall be notified of the agency's zero-tolerance policy regarding sexual abuse and sexual harassment and informed how to report such incidents.
(c) The agency shall maintain documentation confirming that volunteers and contractors understand the training they have received.
§ 115.333
Resident education.
(a) During the intake process, residents shall receive information explaining, in an age appropriate fashion, the agency's zero tolerance policy regarding sexual abuse and sexual harassment and how to report incidents or suspicions of sexual abuse or sexual harassment.
(b) Within 10 days of intake, the agency shall provide comprehensive age-appropriate education to residents either in person or through video regarding their rights to be free from sexual abuse and sexual harassment and to be free from retaliation for reporting such incidents, and regarding agency policies and procedures for responding to such incidents.
(c) Current residents who have not received such education shall be educated within one year of the effective date of the PREA standards, and shall receive education upon transfer to a different facility to the extent that the policies and procedures of the resident's new facility differ from those of the previous facility.
(d) The agency shall provide resident education in formats accessible to all residents, including those who are limited English proficient, deaf, visually impaired, or otherwise disabled, as well as to residents who have limited reading skills.
(e) The agency shall maintain documentation of resident participation in these education sessions.
(f) In addition to providing such education, the agency shall ensure that key information is continuously and readily available or visible to residents through posters, resident handbooks, or other written formats.
§ 115.334
Specialized training: Investigations.
(a) In addition to the general training provided to all employees pursuant to § 115.331, the agency shall ensure that, to the extent the agency itself conducts sexual abuse investigations, its investigators have received training in conducting such investigations in confinement settings.
(b) Specialized training shall include techniques for interviewing juvenile sexual abuse victims, proper use of
Miranda
and
Garrity
warnings, sexual abuse evidence collection in confinement settings, and the criteria and evidence required to substantiate a case for administrative action or prosecution referral.
(c) The agency shall maintain documentation that agency investigators have completed the required specialized training in conducting sexual abuse investigations.
(d) Any State entity or Department of Justice component that investigates sexual abuse in juvenile confinement settings shall provide such training to its agents and investigators who conduct such investigations.
§ 115.335
Specialized training: Medical and mental health care.
(a) The agency shall ensure that all full- and part-time medical and mental
health care practitioners who work regularly in its facilities have been trained in:
(1) How to detect and assess signs of sexual abuse and sexual harassment;
(2) How to preserve physical evidence of sexual abuse;
(3) How to respond effectively and professionally to juvenile victims of sexual abuse and sexual harassment; and
(4) How and to whom to report allegations or suspicions of sexual abuse and sexual harassment.
(b) If medical staff employed by the agency conduct forensic examinations, such medical staff shall receive the appropriate training to conduct such examinations.
(c) The agency shall maintain documentation that medical and mental health practitioners have received the training referenced in this standard either from the agency or elsewhere.
(d) Medical and mental health care practitioners shall also receive the training mandated for employees under § 115.331 or for contractors and volunteers under § 115.332, depending upon the practitioner's status at the agency.

# Screening for Risk of Sexual Victimization and Abusiveness
§ 115.341
Obtaining information from residents.
(a) Within 72 hours of the resident's arrival at the facility and periodically throughout a resident's confinement, the agency shall obtain and use information about each resident's personal history and behavior to reduce the risk of sexual abuse by or upon a resident.
(b) Such assessments shall be conducted using an objective screening instrument.
(c) At a minimum, the agency shall attempt to ascertain information about:
(1) Prior sexual victimization or abusiveness;
(2) Any gender nonconforming appearance or manner or identification as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or intersex, and whether the resident may therefore be vulnerable to sexual abuse;
(3) Current charges and offense history;
(4) Age;
(5) Level of emotional and cognitive development;
(6) Physical size and stature;
(7) Mental illness or mental disabilities;
(8) Intellectual or developmental disabilities;
(9) Physical disabilities;
(10) The resident's own perception of vulnerability; and
(11) Any other specific information about individual residents that may indicate heightened needs for supervision, additional safety precautions, or separation from certain other residents.
(d) This information shall be ascertained through conversations with the resident during the intake process and medical and mental health screenings; during classification assessments; and by reviewing court records, case files, facility behavioral records, and other relevant documentation from the resident's files.
(e) The agency shall implement appropriate controls on the dissemination within the facility of responses to questions asked pursuant to this standard in order to ensure that sensitive information is not exploited to the resident's detriment by staff or other residents.
§ 115.342
Placement of residents in housing, bed, program, education, and work assignments.
(a) The agency shall use all information obtained pursuant to § 115.341 and subsequently to make housing, bed, program, education, and work assignments for residents with the goal of keeping all residents safe and free from sexual abuse.
(b) Residents may be isolated from others only as a last resort when less restrictive measures are inadequate to keep them and other residents safe, and then only until an alternative means of keeping all residents safe can be arranged. During any period of isolation, agencies shall not deny residents daily large-muscle exercise and any legally required educational programming or special education services. Residents in isolation shall receive daily visits from a medical or mental health care clinician. Residents
shall also have access to other programs and work opportunities to the extent possible.
(c) Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or intersex residents shall not be placed in particular housing, bed, or other assignments solely on the basis of such identification or status, nor shall agencies consider lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or intersex identification or status as an indicator of likelihood of being sexually abusive.
(d) In deciding whether to assign a transgender or intersex resident to a facility for male or female residents, and in making other housing and programming assignments, the agency shall consider on a case-by-case basis whether a placement would ensure the resident's health and safety, and whether the placement would present management or security problems.
(e) Placement and programming assignments for each transgender or intersex resident shall be reassessed at least twice each year to review any threats to safety experienced by the resident.
(f) A transgender or intersex resident's own views with respect to his or her own safety shall be given serious consideration.
(g) Transgender and intersex residents shall be given the opportunity to shower separately from other residents.
(h) If a resident is isolated pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the facility shall clearly document:
(1) The basis for the facility's concern for the resident's safety; and
(2) The reason why no alternative means of separation can be arranged.
(i) Every 30 days, the facility shall afford each resident described in paragraph (h) of this section a review to determine whether there is a continuing need for separation from the general population.
§ 115.343
[Reserved]

# Reporting
§ 115.351
Resident reporting.
(a) The agency shall provide multiple internal ways for residents to privately report sexual abuse and sexual harassment, retaliation by other residents or staff for reporting sexual abuse and sexual harassment, and staff neglect or violation of responsibilities that may have contributed to such incidents.
(b) The agency shall also provide at least one way for residents to report abuse or harassment to a public or private entity or office that is not part of the agency and that is able to receive and immediately forward resident reports of sexual abuse and sexual harassment to agency officials, allowing the resident to remain anonymous upon request. Residents detained solely for civil immigration purposes shall be provided information on how to contact relevant consular officials and relevant officials at the Department of Homeland Security.
(c) Staff shall accept reports made verbally, in writing, anonymously, and from third parties and shall promptly document any verbal reports.
(d) The facility shall provide residents with access to tools necessary to make a written report.
(e) The agency shall provide a method for staff to privately report sexual abuse and sexual harassment of residents.
§ 115.352
Exhaustion of administrative remedies.
(a) An agency shall be exempt from this standard if it does not have administrative procedures to address resident grievances regarding sexual abuse.
(b)(1) The agency shall not impose a time limit on when a resident may submit a grievance regarding an allegation of sexual abuse.
(2) The agency may apply otherwise-applicable time limits on any portion of a grievance that does not allege an incident of sexual abuse.
(3) The agency shall not require a resident to use any informal grievance process, or to otherwise attempt to resolve with staff, an alleged incident of sexual abuse.
(4) Nothing in this section shall restrict the agency's ability to defend against a lawsuit filed by a resident on the ground that the applicable statute of limitations has expired.
(c) The agency shall ensure that—
(1) A resident who alleges sexual abuse may submit a grievance without submitting it to a staff member who is the subject of the complaint, and
(2) Such grievance is not referred to a staff member who is the subject of the complaint.
(d)(1) The agency shall issue a final agency decision on the merits of any portion of a grievance alleging sexual abuse within 90 days of the initial filing of the grievance.
(2) Computation of the 90-day time period shall not include time consumed by residents in preparing any administrative appeal.
(3) The agency may claim an extension of time to respond, of up to 70 days, if the normal time period for response is insufficient to make an appropriate decision. The agency shall notify the resident in writing of any such extension and provide a date by which a decision will be made.
(4) At any level of the administrative process, including the final level, if the resident does not receive a response within the time allotted for reply, including any properly noticed extension, the resident may consider the absence of a response to be a denial at that level.
(e)(1) Third parties, including fellow residents, staff members, family members, attorneys, and outside advocates, shall be permitted to assist residents in filing requests for administrative remedies relating to allegations of sexual abuse, and shall also be permitted to file such requests on behalf of residents.
(2) If a third party, other than a parent or legal guardian, files such a request on behalf of a resident, the facility may require as a condition of processing the request that the alleged victim agree to have the request filed on his or her behalf, and may also require the alleged victim to personally pursue any subsequent steps in the administrative remedy process.
(3) If the resident declines to have the request processed on his or her behalf, the agency shall document the resident's decision.
(4) A parent or legal guardian of a juvenile shall be allowed to file a grievance regarding allegations of sexual abuse, including appeals, on behalf of such juvenile. Such a grievance shall not be conditioned upon the juvenile agreeing to have the request filed on his or her behalf.
(f)(1) The agency shall establish procedures for the filing of an emergency grievance alleging that a resident is subject to a substantial risk of imminent sexual abuse.
(2) After receiving an emergency grievance alleging a resident is subject to a substantial risk of imminent sexual abuse, the agency shall immediately forward the grievance (or any portion thereof that alleges the substantial risk of imminent sexual abuse) to a level of review at which immediate corrective action may be taken, shall provide an initial response within 48 hours, and shall issue a final agency decision within 5 calendar days. The initial response and final agency decision shall document the agency's determination whether the resident is in substantial risk of imminent sexual abuse and the action taken in response to the emergency grievance.
(g) The agency may discipline a resident for filing a grievance related to alleged sexual abuse only where the agency demonstrates that the resident filed the grievance in bad faith.
§ 115.353
Resident access to outside support services and legal representation.
(a) The facility shall provide residents with access to outside victim advocates for emotional support services related to sexual abuse, by providing, posting, or otherwise making accessible mailing addresses and telephone numbers, including toll free hotline numbers where available, of local, State, or national victim advocacy or rape crisis organizations, and, for persons detained solely for civil immigration purposes, immigrant services agencies. The facility shall enable reasonable communication between residents and these organizations and agencies, in as confidential a manner as possible.
(b) The facility shall inform residents, prior to giving them access, of the extent to which such communications will be monitored and the extent to which reports of abuse will be forwarded to authorities in accordance with mandatory reporting laws.
(c) The agency shall maintain or attempt to enter into memoranda of understanding or other agreements with
community service providers that are able to provide residents with confidential emotional support services related to sexual abuse. The agency shall maintain copies of agreements or documentation showing attempts to enter into such agreements.
(d) The facility shall also provide residents with reasonable and confidential access to their attorneys or other legal representation and reasonable access to parents or legal guardians.
§ 115.354
Third-party reporting.
The agency shall establish a method to receive third-party reports of sexual abuse and sexual harassment and shall distribute publicly information on how to report sexual abuse and sexual harassment on behalf of a resident.

# Official Response Following a Resident Report
§ 115.361
Staff and agency reporting duties.
(a) The agency shall require all staff to report immediately and according to agency policy any knowledge, suspicion, or information they receive regarding an incident of sexual abuse or sexual harassment that occurred in a facility, whether or not it is part of the agency; retaliation against residents or staff who reported such an incident; and any staff neglect or violation of responsibilities that may have contributed to an incident or retaliation.
(b) The agency shall also require all staff to comply with any applicable mandatory child abuse reporting laws.
(c) Apart from reporting to designated supervisors or officials and designated State or local services agencies, staff shall be prohibited from revealing any information related to a sexual abuse report to anyone other than to the extent necessary, as specified in agency policy, to make treatment, investigation, and other security and management decisions.
(d)(1) Medical and mental health practitioners shall be required to report sexual abuse to designated supervisors and officials pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, as well as to the designated State or local services agency where required by mandatory reporting laws.
(2) Such practitioners shall be required to inform residents at the initiation of services of their duty to report and the limitations of confidentiality.
(e)(1) Upon receiving any allegation of sexual abuse, the facility head or his or her designee shall promptly report the allegation to the appropriate agency office and to the alleged victim's parents or legal guardians, unless the facility has official documentation showing the parents or legal guardians should not be notified.
(2) If the alleged victim is under the guardianship of the child welfare system, the report shall be made to the alleged victim's caseworker instead of the parents or legal guardians.
(3) If a juvenile court retains jurisdiction over the alleged victim, the facility head or designee shall also report the allegation to the juvenile's attorney or other legal representative of record within 14 days of receiving the allegation.
(f) The facility shall report all allegations of sexual abuse and sexual harassment, including third-party and anonymous reports, to the facility's designated investigators.
§ 115.362
Agency protection duties.
When an agency learns that a resident is subject to a substantial risk of imminent sexual abuse, it shall take immediate action to protect the resident.
§ 115.363
Reporting to other confinement facilities.
(a) Upon receiving an allegation that a resident was sexually abused while confined at another facility, the head of the facility that received the allegation shall notify the head of the facility or appropriate office of the agency where the alleged abuse occurred and shall also notify the appropriate investigative agency.
(b) Such notification shall be provided as soon as possible, but no later than 72 hours after receiving the allegation.
(c) The agency shall document that it has provided such notification.
(d) The facility head or agency office that receives such notification shall
ensure that the allegation is investigated in accordance with these standards.
§ 115.364
Staff first responder duties.
(a) Upon learning of an allegation that a resident was sexually abused, the first staff member to respond to the report shall be required to:
(1) Separate the alleged victim and abuser;
(2) Preserve and protect any crime scene until appropriate steps can be taken to collect any evidence;
(3) If the abuse occurred within a time period that still allows for the collection of physical evidence, request that the alleged victim not take any actions that could destroy physical evidence, including, as appropriate, washing, brushing teeth, changing clothes, urinating, defecating, smoking, drinking, or eating; and
(4) If the abuse occurred within a time period that still allows for the collection of physical evidence, ensure that the alleged abuser does not take any actions that could destroy physical evidence, including, as appropriate, washing, brushing teeth, changing clothes, urinating, defecating, smoking, drinking, or eating.
(b) If the first staff responder is not a security staff member, the responder shall be required to request that the alleged victim not take any actions that could destroy physical evidence, and then notify security staff.
§ 115.365
Coordinated response.
The facility shall develop a written institutional plan to coordinate actions taken in response to an incident of sexual abuse among staff first responders, medical and mental health practitioners, investigators, and facility leadership.
§ 115.366
Preservation of ability to protect residents from contact with abusers.
(a) Neither the agency nor any other governmental entity responsible for collective bargaining on the agency's behalf shall enter into or renew any collective bargaining agreement or other agreement that limits the agency's ability to remove alleged staff sexual abusers from contact with residents pending the outcome of an investigation or of a determination of whether and to what extent discipline is warranted.
(b) Nothing in this standard shall restrict the entering into or renewal of agreements that govern:
(1) The conduct of the disciplinary process, as long as such agreements are not inconsistent with the provisions of §§ 115.372 and 115.376; or
(2) Whether a no-contact assignment that is imposed pending the outcome of an investigation shall be expunged from or retained in the staff member's personnel file following a determination that the allegation of sexual abuse is not substantiated.
§ 115.367
Agency protection against retaliation.
(a) The agency shall establish a policy to protect all residents and staff who report sexual abuse or sexual harassment or cooperate with sexual abuse or sexual harassment investigations from retaliation by other residents or staff and shall designate which staff members or departments are charged with monitoring retaliation.
(b) The agency shall employ multiple protection measures, such as housing changes or transfers for resident victims or abusers, removal of alleged staff or resident abusers from contact with victims, and emotional support services for residents or staff who fear retaliation for reporting sexual abuse or sexual harassment or for cooperating with investigations.
(c) For at least 90 days following a report of sexual abuse, the agency shall monitor the conduct or treatment of residents or staff who reported the sexual abuse and of residents who were reported to have suffered sexual abuse to see if there are changes that may suggest possible retaliation by residents or staff, and shall act promptly to remedy any such retaliation. Items the agency should monitor include any resident disciplinary reports, housing, or program changes, or negative performance reviews or reassignments of staff. The agency shall continue such monitoring beyond 90 days if the initial monitoring indicates a continuing need.
(d) In the case of residents, such monitoring shall also include periodic status checks.
(e) If any other individual who cooperates with an investigation expresses a fear of retaliation, the agency shall take appropriate measures to protect that individual against retaliation.
(f) An agency's obligation to monitor shall terminate if the agency determines that the allegation is unfounded.
§ 115.368
Post-allegation protective custody.
Any use of segregated housing to protect a resident who is alleged to have suffered sexual abuse shall be subject to the requirements of § 115.342.

# Investigations
§ 115.371
Criminal and administrative agency investigations.
(a) When the agency conducts its own investigations into allegations of sexual abuse and sexual harassment, it shall do so promptly, thoroughly, and objectively for all allegations, including third-party and anonymous reports.
(b) Where sexual abuse is alleged, the agency shall use investigators who have received special training in sexual abuse investigations involving juvenile victims pursuant to § 115.334.
(c) Investigators shall gather and preserve direct and circumstantial evidence, including any available physical and DNA evidence and any available electronic monitoring data; shall interview alleged victims, suspected perpetrators, and witnesses; and shall review prior complaints and reports of sexual abuse involving the suspected perpetrator.
(d) The agency shall not terminate an investigation solely because the source of the allegation recants the allegation.
(e) When the quality of evidence appears to support criminal prosecution, the agency shall conduct compelled interviews only after consulting with prosecutors as to whether compelled interviews may be an obstacle for subsequent criminal prosecution.
(f) The credibility of an alleged victim, suspect, or witness shall be assessed on an individual basis and shall not be determined by the person's status as resident or staff. No agency shall require a resident who alleges sexual abuse to submit to a polygraph examination or other truth-telling device as a condition for proceeding with the investigation of such an allegation.
(g) Administrative investigations:
(1) Shall include an effort to determine whether staff actions or failures to act contributed to the abuse; and
(2) Shall be documented in written reports that include a description of the physical and testimonial evidence, the reasoning behind credibility assessments, and investigative facts and findings.
(h) Criminal investigations shall be documented in a written report that contains a thorough description of physical, testimonial, and documentary evidence and attaches copies of all documentary evidence where feasible.
(i) Substantiated allegations of conduct that appears to be criminal shall be referred for prosecution.
(j) The agency shall retain all written reports referenced in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section for as long as the alleged abuser is incarcerated or employed by the agency, plus five years, unless the abuse was committed by a juvenile resident and applicable law requires a shorter period of retention.
(k) The departure of the alleged abuser or victim from the employment or control of the facility or agency shall not provide a basis for terminating an investigation.
(l) Any State entity or Department of Justice component that conducts such investigations shall do so pursuant to the above requirements.
(m) When outside agencies investigate sexual abuse, the facility shall cooperate with outside investigators and shall endeavor to remain informed about the progress of the investigation.
§ 115.372
Evidentiary standard for administrative investigations.
The agency shall impose no standard higher than a preponderance of the evidence in determining whether allegations of sexual abuse or sexual harassment are substantiated.
§ 115.373
Reporting to residents.
(a) Following an investigation into a resident's allegation of sexual abuse suffered in an agency facility, the agency shall inform the resident as to whether the allegation has been determined to be substantiated, unsubstantiated, or unfounded.
(b) If the agency did not conduct the investigation, it shall request the relevant information from the investigative agency in order to inform the resident.
(c) Following a resident's allegation that a staff member has committed sexual abuse against the resident, the agency shall subsequently inform the resident (unless the agency has determined that the allegation is unfounded) whenever:
(1) The staff member is no longer posted within the resident's unit;
(2) The staff member is no longer employed at the facility;
(3) The agency learns that the staff member has been indicted on a charge related to sexual abuse within the facility; or
(4) The agency learns that the staff member has been convicted on a charge related to sexual abuse within the facility.
(d) Following a resident's allegation that he or she has been sexually abused by another resident, the agency shall subsequently inform the alleged victim whenever:
(1) The agency learns that the alleged abuser has been indicted on a charge related to sexual abuse within the facility; or
(2) The agency learns that the alleged abuser has been convicted on a charge related to sexual abuse within the facility.
(e) All such notifications or attempted notifications shall be documented.
(f) An agency's obligation to report under this standard shall terminate if the resident is released from the agency's custody.

# Discipline
§ 115.376
Disciplinary sanctions for staff.
(a) Staff shall be subject to disciplinary sanctions up to and including termination for violating agency sexual abuse or sexual harassment policies.
(b) Termination shall be the presumptive disciplinary sanction for staff who have engaged in sexual abuse.
(c) Disciplinary sanctions for violations of agency policies relating to sexual abuse or sexual harassment (other than actually engaging in sexual abuse) shall be commensurate with the nature and circumstances of the acts committed, the staff member's disciplinary history, and the sanctions imposed for comparable offenses by other staff with similar histories.
(d) All terminations for violations of agency sexual abuse or sexual harassment policies, or resignations by staff who would have been terminated if not for their resignation, shall be reported to law enforcement agencies, unless the activity was clearly not criminal, and to any relevant licensing bodies.
§ 115.377
Corrective action for contractors and volunteers.
(a) Any contractor or volunteer who engages in sexual abuse shall be prohibited from contact with residents and shall be reported to law enforcement agencies, unless the activity was clearly not criminal, and to relevant licensing bodies.
(b) The facility shall take appropriate remedial measures, and shall consider whether to prohibit further contact with residents, in the case of any other violation of agency sexual abuse or sexual harassment policies by a contractor or volunteer.
§ 115.378
Interventions and disciplinary sanctions for residents.
(a) A resident may be subject to disciplinary sanctions only pursuant to a formal disciplinary process following an administrative finding that the resident engaged in resident-on-resident sexual abuse or following a criminal finding of guilt for resident-on-resident sexual abuse.
(b) Any disciplinary sanctions shall be commensurate with the nature and circumstances of the abuse committed, the resident's disciplinary history, and the sanctions imposed for comparable offenses by other residents with similar histories. In the event a disciplinary sanction results in the isolation of a
resident, agencies shall not deny the resident daily large-muscle exercise or access to any legally required educational programming or special education services. Residents in isolation shall receive daily visits from a medical or mental health care clinician. Residents shall also have access to other programs and work opportunities to the extent possible.
(c) The disciplinary process shall consider whether a resident's mental disabilities or mental illness contributed to his or her behavior when determining what type of sanction, if any, should be imposed.
(d) If the facility offers therapy, counseling, or other interventions designed to address and correct underlying reasons or motivations for the abuse, the facility shall consider whether to offer the offending resident participation in such interventions. The agency may require participation in such interventions as a condition of access to any rewards-based behavior management system or other behavior-based incentives, but not as a condition to access to general programming or education.
(e) The agency may discipline a resident for sexual contact with staff only upon a finding that the staff member did not consent to such contact.
(f) For the purpose of disciplinary action, a report of sexual abuse made in good faith based upon a reasonable belief that the alleged conduct occurred shall not constitute falsely reporting an incident or lying, even if an investigation does not establish evidence sufficient to substantiate the allegation.
(g) An agency may, in its discretion, prohibit all sexual activity between residents and may discipline residents for such activity. An agency may not, however, deem such activity to constitute sexual abuse if it determines that the activity is not coerced.

# Medical and Mental Care
§ 115.381
Medical and mental health screenings; history of sexual abuse.
(a) If the screening pursuant to § 115.341 indicates that a resident has experienced prior sexual victimization, whether it occurred in an institutional setting or in the community, staff shall ensure that the resident is offered a follow-up meeting with a medical or mental health practitioner within 14 days of the intake screening.
(b) If the screening pursuant to § 115.341 indicates that a resident has previously perpetrated sexual abuse, whether it occurred in an institutional setting or in the community, staff shall ensure that the resident is offered a follow-up meeting with a mental health practitioner within 14 days of the intake screening.
(c) Any information related to sexual victimization or abusiveness that occurred in an institutional setting shall be strictly limited to medical and mental health practitioners and other staff, as necessary, to inform treatment plans and security and management decisions, including housing, bed, work, education, and program assignments, or as otherwise required by Federal, State, or local law.
(d) Medical and mental health practitioners shall obtain informed consent from residents before reporting information about prior sexual victimization that did not occur in an institutional setting, unless the resident is under the age of 18.
§ 115.382
Access to emergency medical and mental health services.
(a) Resident victims of sexual abuse shall receive timely, unimpeded access to emergency medical treatment and crisis intervention services, the nature and scope of which are determined by medical and mental health practitioners according to their professional judgment.
(b) If no qualified medical or mental health practitioners are on duty at the time a report of recent abuse is made, staff first responders shall take preliminary steps to protect the victim pursuant to § 115.362 and shall immediately notify the appropriate medical and mental health practitioners.
(c) Resident victims of sexual abuse while incarcerated shall be offered timely information about and timely access to emergency contraception and sexually transmitted infections prophylaxis, in accordance with professionally accepted standards of care, where medically appropriate.
(d) Treatment services shall be provided to the victim without financial cost and regardless of whether the victim names the abuser or cooperates with any investigation arising out of the incident.
§ 115.383
Ongoing medical and mental health care for sexual abuse victims and abusers.
(a) The facility shall offer medical and mental health evaluation and, as appropriate, treatment to all residents who have been victimized by sexual abuse in any prison, jail, lockup, or juvenile facility.
(b) The evaluation and treatment of such victims shall include, as appropriate, follow-up services, treatment plans, and, when necessary, referrals for continued care following their transfer to, or placement in, other facilities, or their release from custody.
(c) The facility shall provide such victims with medical and mental health services consistent with the community level of care.
(d) Resident victims of sexually abusive vaginal penetration while incarcerated shall be offered pregnancy tests.
(e) If pregnancy results from conduct specified in paragraph (d) of this section, such victims shall receive timely and comprehensive information about and timely access to all lawful pregnancy-related medical services.
(f) Resident victims of sexual abuse while incarcerated shall be offered tests for sexually transmitted infections as medically appropriate.
(g) Treatment services shall be provided to the victim without financial cost and regardless of whether the victim names the abuser or cooperates with any investigation arising out of the incident.
(h) The facility shall attempt to conduct a mental health evaluation of all known resident-on-resident abusers within 60 days of learning of such abuse history and offer treatment when deemed appropriate by mental health practitioners.

# Data Collection and Review
§ 115.386
Sexual abuse incident reviews.
(a) The facility shall conduct a sexual abuse incident review at the conclusion of every sexual abuse investigation, including where the allegation has not been substantiated, unless the allegation has been determined to be unfounded.
(b) Such review shall ordinarily occur within 30 days of the conclusion of the investigation.
(c) The review team shall include upper-level management officials, with input from line supervisors, investigators, and medical or mental health practitioners.
(d) The review team shall:
(1) Consider whether the allegation or investigation indicates a need to change policy or practice to better prevent, detect, or respond to sexual abuse;
(2) Consider whether the incident or allegation was motivated by race; ethnicity; gender identity; lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or intersex identification, status, or perceived status; or, gang affiliation; or was motivated or otherwise caused by other group dynamics at the facility;
(3) Examine the area in the facility where the incident allegedly occurred to assess whether physical barriers in the area may enable abuse;
(4) Assess the adequacy of staffing levels in that area during different shifts;
(5) Assess whether monitoring technology should be deployed or augmented to supplement supervision by staff; and
(6) Prepare a report of its findings, including but not necessarily limited to determinations made pursuant to paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(5) of this section, and any recommendations for improvement and submit such report to the facility head and PREA compliance manager.
(e) The facility shall implement the recommendations for improvement, or shall document its reasons for not doing so.
§ 115.387
Data collection.
(a) The agency shall collect accurate, uniform data for every allegation of sexual abuse at facilities under its direct control using a standardized instrument and set of definitions.
(b) The agency shall aggregate the incident-based sexual abuse data at least annually.
(c) The incident-based data collected shall include, at a minimum, the data necessary to answer all questions from the most recent version of the Survey of Sexual Violence conducted by the Department of Justice.
(d) The agency shall maintain, review, and collect data as needed from all available incident-based documents, including reports, investigation files, and sexual abuse incident reviews.
(e) The agency also shall obtain incident-based and aggregated data from every private facility with which it contracts for the confinement of its residents.
(f) Upon request, the agency shall provide all such data from the previous calendar year to the Department of Justice no later than June 30.
§ 115.388
Data review for corrective action.
(a) The agency shall review data collected and aggregated pursuant to § 115.387 in order to assess and improve the effectiveness of its sexual abuse prevention, detection, and response policies, practices, and training, including:
(1) Identifying problem areas;
(2) Taking corrective action on an ongoing basis; and
(3) Preparing an annual report of its findings and corrective actions for each facility, as well as the agency as a whole.
(b) Such report shall include a comparison of the current year's data and corrective actions with those from prior years and shall provide an assessment of the agency's progress in addressing sexual abuse.
(c) The agency's report shall be approved by the agency head and made readily available to the public through its Web site or, if it does not have one, through other means.
(d) The agency may redact specific material from the reports when publication would present a clear and specific threat to the safety and security of a facility, but must indicate the nature of the material redacted.
§ 115.389
Data storage, publication, and destruction.
(a) The agency shall ensure that data collected pursuant to § 115.387 are securely retained.
(b) The agency shall make all aggregated sexual abuse data, from facilities under its direct control and private facilities with which it contracts, readily available to the public at least annually through its Web site or, if it does not have one, through other means.
(c) Before making aggregated sexual abuse data publicly available, the agency shall remove all personal identifiers.
(d) The agency shall maintain sexual abuse data collected pursuant to § 115.387 for at least 10 years after the date of its initial collection unless Federal, State, or local law requires otherwise.

# Audits
§ 115.393
Audits of standards.
The agency shall conduct audits pursuant to §§ 115.401 through 115.405.

# Subpart E—Auditing and Corrective Action
§ 115.401
Frequency and scope of audits.
(a) During the three-year period starting on August 20, 2013, and during each three-year period thereafter, the agency shall ensure that each facility operated by the agency, or by a private organization on behalf of the agency, is audited at least once.
(b) During each one-year period starting on August 20, 2013, the agency shall ensure that at least one-third of each facility type operated by the agency, or by a private organization on behalf of the agency, is audited.
(c) The Department of Justice may send a recommendation to an agency for an expedited audit if the Department has reason to believe that a particular facility may be experiencing problems relating to sexual abuse. The
recommendation may also include referrals to resources that may assist the agency with PREA-related issues.
(d) The Department of Justice shall develop and issue an audit instrument that will provide guidance on the conduct of and contents of the audit.
(e) The agency shall bear the burden of demonstrating compliance with the standards.
(f) The auditor shall review all relevant agency-wide policies, procedures, reports, internal and external audits, and accreditations for each facility type.
(g) The audits shall review, at a minimum, a sampling of relevant documents and other records and information for the most recent one-year period.
(h) The auditor shall have access to, and shall observe, all areas of the audited facilities.
(i) The auditor shall be permitted to request and receive copies of any relevant documents (including electronically stored information).
(j) The auditor shall retain and preserve all documentation (including,
e.g.,
video tapes and interview notes) relied upon in making audit determinations. Such documentation shall be provided to the Department of Justice upon request.
(k) The auditor shall interview a representative sample of inmates, residents, and detainees, and of staff, supervisors, and administrators.
(l) The auditor shall review a sampling of any available videotapes and other electronically available data (
e.g.,
Watchtour) that may be relevant to the provisions being audited.
(m) The auditor shall be permitted to conduct private interviews with inmates, residents, and detainees.
(n) Inmates, residents, and detainees shall be permitted to send confidential information or correspondence to the auditor in the same manner as if they were communicating with legal counsel.
(o) Auditors shall attempt to communicate with community-based or victim advocates who may have insight into relevant conditions in the facility.
§ 115.402
Auditor qualifications.
(a) An audit shall be conducted by:
(1) A member of a correctional monitoring body that is not part of, or under the authority of, the agency (but may be part of, or authorized by, the relevant State or local government);
(2) A member of an auditing entity such as an inspector general's or ombudsperson's office that is external to the agency; or
(3) Other outside individuals with relevant experience.
(b) All auditors shall be certified by the Department of Justice. The Department of Justice shall develop and issue procedures regarding the certification process, which shall include training requirements.
(c) No audit may be conducted by an auditor who has received financial compensation from the agency being audited (except for compensation received for conducting prior PREA audits) within the three years prior to the agency's retention of the auditor.
(d) The agency shall not employ, contract with, or otherwise financially compensate the auditor for three years subsequent to the agency's retention of the auditor, with the exception of contracting for subsequent PREA audits.
§ 115.403
Audit contents and findings.
(a) Each audit shall include a certification by the auditor that no conflict of interest exists with respect to his or her ability to conduct an audit of the agency under review.
(b) Audit reports shall state whether agency-wide policies and procedures comply with relevant PREA standards.
(c) For each PREA standard, the auditor shall determine whether the audited facility reaches one of the following findings: Exceeds Standard (substantially exceeds requirement of standard); Meets Standard (substantial compliance; complies in all material ways with the standard for the relevant review period); Does Not Meet Standard (requires corrective action). The audit summary shall indicate, among other things, the number of provisions the facility has achieved at each grade level.
(d) Audit reports shall describe the methodology, sampling sizes, and basis for the auditor's conclusions with regard to each standard provision for each audited facility, and shall include
recommendations for any required corrective action.
(e) Auditors shall redact any personally identifiable inmate or staff information from their reports, but shall provide such information to the agency upon request, and may provide such information to the Department of Justice.
(f) The agency shall ensure that the auditor's final report is published on the agency's Web site if it has one, or is otherwise made readily available to the public.
§ 115.404
Audit corrective action plan.
(a) A finding of “Does Not Meet Standard” with one or more standards shall trigger a 180-day corrective action period.
(b) The auditor and the agency shall jointly develop a corrective action plan to achieve compliance.
(c) The auditor shall take necessary and appropriate steps to verify implementation of the corrective action plan, such as reviewing updated policies and procedures or re-inspecting portions of a facility.
(d) After the 180-day corrective action period ends, the auditor shall issue a final determination as to whether the facility has achieved compliance with those standards requiring corrective action.
(e) If the agency does not achieve compliance with each standard, it may (at its discretion and cost) request a subsequent audit once it believes that is has achieved compliance.
§ 115.405
Audit appeals.
(a) An agency may lodge an appeal with the Department of Justice regarding any specific audit finding that it believes to be incorrect. Such appeal must be lodged within 90 days of the auditor's final determination.
(b) If the Department determines that the agency has stated good cause for a re-evaluation, the agency may commission a re-audit by an auditor mutually agreed upon by the Department and the agency. The agency shall bear the costs of this re-audit.
(c) The findings of the re-audit shall be considered final.

# Subpart F—State Compliance
§ 115.501
State determination and certification of full compliance.
(a) In determining pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 15607(c)(2) whether the State is in full compliance with the PREA standards, the Governor shall consider the results of the most recent agency audits.
(b) The Governor's certification shall apply to all facilities in the State under the operational control of the State's executive branch, including facilities operated by private entities on behalf of the State's executive branch.
Pt. 200

# PART 200—ALIEN TERRORIST REMOVAL PROCEDURES

# Authority:
Pub. L. 105-277, 112 Stat. 2681.

# Source:
64 FR 8496, Feb. 19, 1999, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated by Order No. 2662-2003, 68 FR 9846, Feb. 28, 2003.
§ 200.1
Eligibility for Protection under the Convention Against Torture.
A removal order under Title V of the Act shall not be executed in circumstances that would violate Article 3 of the United Nations Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, subject to any reservations, understandings, declarations, and provisos contained in the United States Senate resolution of ratification of the Convention, as implemented by section 2242 of the Foreign Affairs Reform and Restructuring Act of 1998, Pub. L. 105-277. Convention-based claims by aliens subject to removal under this Title shall be determined by the Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary of State.
Pt. 201

# PART 201—DATA PROTECTION REVIEW COURT
Sec.
201.1
Purpose.
201.2
Definitions.
201.3
Appointment of judges and rules of procedure.
201.4
Appointment of Special Advocates.
201.5
Administrative support for the DPRC.
201.6
Applications for review.
201.7
Convening of panels, conduct of judges, and independence of the DPRC.
201.8
Special Advocates.
201.9
Consideration of applications and decisions.
201.10
Guiding principles of law.
201.11
Information security and classified national security information.
201.12
Disclaimer.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510-512; Executive order of October 7, 2022.

# Source:
AG Order No. 5517-2022, 87 FR 62305, October 14, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 201.1
Purpose.
This part establishes an independent and impartial Data Protection Review Court (DPRC) to consider, in classified proceedings, applications for review of determinations made by the Civil Liberties Protection Officer of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI CLPO) in response to qualifying complaints submitted through the redress mechanism established pursuant to section 3 of the Executive order of October 7, 2022, “Enhancing Safeguards for United States Signals Intelligence Activities.”
§ 201.2
Definitions.
The terms “appropriate remediation,” “covered violation,” “element of the Intelligence Community,” “Intelligence Community,” “national security,” and “qualifying complaint” shall have the same meanings as they have in the Executive order of October 7, 2022. The term “qualifying state” means a country or regional economic integration organization designated as a qualifying state by the Attorney General pursuant to section 3(f) of the Executive order of October 7, 2022.
§ 201.3
Appointment of judges and rules of procedure.
(a) The Attorney General shall, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, the Director of National Intelligence, and the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (PCLOB), appoint not fewer than six individuals to serve as judges on the DPRC for four-year renewable terms, choosing individuals who at the time of their initial appointment have not been employees of the executive branch in the previous two years.
(b) The Attorney General's appointments shall be informed by the criteria used by the executive branch in assessing candidates for the Federal judiciary, giving weight to any prior judicial experience, and shall be of individuals with appropriate experience in the fields of data privacy and national security law. The Attorney General shall endeavor to ensure that at least half of the judges at any given time have prior judicial experience, and all persons appointed as judges shall be active members in good standing of the bar of a State, Commonwealth, Territory, or Possession, or of the District of Columbia and shall be duly licensed to practice law.
(c) During their term of appointment as judges on the DPRC, such judges shall not have any official duties or employment within the United States Government other than their official duties and employment as judges on the DPRC.
(d) The DPRC shall review and adopt by majority vote rules of procedure consistent with the Executive order of October 7, 2022 and this part, which thereafter shall be made publicly available and applied by each DPRC panel convened under § 201.7(a). The rules of procedure may thereafter be amended at such times and in such ways as a majority of the judges may deem necessary and appropriate to accomplish the work of the DPRC. A quorum of six judges shall be required for the initial adoption of and any amendments to the rules of procedure.
§ 201.4
Appointment of Special Advocates.
(a) The Attorney General shall, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, the Director of National Intelligence, and the PCLOB, appoint no fewer than two individuals to serve as Special Advocates for two-year renewable terms, choosing individuals who at the time of their initial appointment have not been employees of the executive branch in the previous two years.
(b) All persons appointed as Special Advocates shall have appropriate experience in the fields of data privacy and national security law, shall be experienced attorneys and active members in good standing of the bar of a State,
Commonwealth, Territory, or Possession, or of the District of Columbia, and shall be duly licensed to practice law.
§ 201.5
Administrative support for the DPRC.
(a) The Office of Privacy and Civil Liberties of the Department of Justice (OPCL) shall be responsible for providing administrative support to the DPRC and the Special Advocates.
(b) The administrative support provided by OPCL shall include the following functions:
(1) Facilitating the Attorney General's consultations with other officials regarding the appointment of judges and Special Advocates;
(2) Drafting in consultation with relevant agencies rules of procedure and, when requested by the DPRC, any amendments thereto for consideration by the DPRC;
(3) Receiving applications for review of determinations made by the ODNI CLPO and receiving from the ODNI CLPO its record of review;
(4) Receiving and maintaining the confidentiality of any written information that a complainant filing an application for review wishes to provide to the DPRC and of any responses the complainant or their counsel provides to questions from the Special Advocate;
(5) Coordinating with the ODNI CLPO as needed on matters arising from an application for review;
(6) Securely maintaining records pursuant to applicable law;
(7) Making publicly available information about the DPRC, including the names of the judges and Special Advocates, the rules of procedure, and the process for filing an application for review, and such other information as the DPRC in its discretion deems appropriate for its function; and
(8) Providing other administrative support to the DPRC, its panels and judges, and the Special Advocates.
§ 201.6
Applications for review.
(a) A complainant may apply for review by the DPRC of a determination made by the ODNI CLPO in response to a qualifying complaint submitted by the complainant by filing an application for review with the appropriate public authority in a qualifying state, for forwarding to OPCL, no later than sixty (60) days after the date, as reported to OPCL by the appropriate public authority in a qualifying state, on which the complainant receives notification that the ODNI CLPO has completed its review.
(b) The complainant shall submit with the application for review, through the appropriate authority in a qualifying state, any information, including argument on questions of law or the application of law to the facts, that the complainant wishes to provide to the DPRC. The complainant may be represented by counsel in submitting this information. OPCL shall maintain the confidentiality of such information.
(c) An element of the Intelligence Community may apply for review by the DPRC of a determination made by the ODNI CLPO by filing an application for review with OPCL no later than sixty (60) days after the date on which the element of the Intelligence Community receives notification from the ODNI CPLO that the ODNI CLPO has completed its review of the qualifying complaint. An application for review filed by an element of the Intelligence Community may include any information that the element of the Intelligence Community wishes to provide to the DPRC, including argument on questions of law or the application of law to the facts. To prevent the disclosure of classified or otherwise privileged or protected information, the DPRC, Special Advocates, and OPCL shall not provide to the complainant any information relating to the existence, review, or outcome of any application for review filed by an element of the Intelligence Community.
§ 201.7
Convening of panels, conduct of judges, and independence of the DPRC.
(a) Upon receipt of an application for review, OPCL shall convene a panel of the DPRC by selecting three judges on a rotating basis, while ensuring if possible that at least one of the judges selected has prior judicial experience.
(b) The three judges on a DPRC panel shall select a presiding judge by unanimous agreement. If agreement is not reached within five (5) days of the convening of the DPRC panel, the presiding judge shall be the judge who was selected first by OPCL who has prior judicial experience; if no judge on the DPRC panel has such experience, the presiding judge shall be the judge selected first by OPCL.
(c) Judges on a DPRC panel shall conduct themselves in accordance with the Code of Conduct for United States Judges, except that a judge may participate in extrajudicial activities, including business activities, financial activities, non-profit fundraising activities, fiduciary activities, and the practice of law, where such extrajudicial activities do not interfere with the impartial performance of the judge's duties or the effectiveness or independence of the DPRC.
(d) A DPRC panel and its judges shall not be subject to the day-to-day supervision of the Attorney General. The Attorney General shall not remove a judge from a DPRC panel, remove a judge from the DPRC prior to the end of the judge's term of appointment under § 201.3(a), or take any other adverse action against a judge arising from service on the DPRC, except for instances of misconduct, malfeasance, breach of security, neglect of duty, or incapacity, after taking due account of the standards in the Rules for Judicial-Conduct and Judicial-Disability Proceedings promulgated by the Judicial Conference of the United States pursuant to the Judicial Conduct and Disability Act (28 U.S.C. 351
et seq.
).
§ 201.8
Special Advocates.
(a) After a DPRC panel is convened under § 201.7(a), the presiding judge shall select a Special Advocate to assist the panel in the consideration of the application for review.
(b) The Special Advocate shall upon selection receive from OPCL the application for review and any information that the complainant provided under § 201.6(b). The Special Advocate shall not be the agent of the complainant, consistent with the rules of professional responsibility, and there shall be no attorney-client relationship between the Special Advocate and the complainant.
(c) The Special Advocate shall also have access to the record of the ODNI CLPO's review and any information or submissions provided to the DPRC panel by an element of the Intelligence Community.
(d) To prevent the disclosure of classified or otherwise privileged or protected information, the Special Advocate shall adhere to the following rules on communications with the complainant or the complainant's counsel:
(1) If the complainant did not file an application for review, the Special Advocate shall not communicate with the complainant or the complainant's counsel.
(2) If the complainant did file an application for review, the Special Advocate may at any stage submit to OPCL written questions for the complainant or the complainant's counsel. OPCL shall, in consultation with relevant elements of the Intelligence Community, review any such questions to ensure they do not disclose any classified or otherwise privileged or protected information and, subject to that limitation, shall convey the questions through the appropriate public authority in a qualifying state to the complainant or the complainant's counsel, with an invitation to provide written responses to the Special Advocate through the appropriate public authority in a qualifying state.
(e) The Special Advocate shall assist the DPRC panel in its consideration of the application for review, including by advocating regarding the complainant's interest in the matter and by ensuring that the DPRC panel is well informed of the issues and the law with respect to the matter. Where the complainant has filed an application for review, the submissions of the Special Advocate to the DPRC shall include the complainant's application for review and the information and responses to questions submitted to the Special Advocate by the complainant.
(f) Affected elements of the Intelligence Community shall be provided an opportunity to respond to submissions made by the Special Advocate.
§ 201.9
Consideration of applications and decisions.
(a) A DPRC panel shall consider an application for review in a manner that is timely, impartial, and consistent with the Executive order of October 7, 2022 and this part in order to determine whether a covered violation occurred and, if so, to determine any appropriate remediation.
(b) A DPRC panel shall conduct its review based on the record of the ODNI CLPO's review and any information or submissions provided by the complainant, the Special Advocate, or an element of the Intelligence Community. A DPRC panel may request that the ODNI CLPO supplement the record with specific explanatory or clarifying information and that the ODNI CLPO make additional factual findings where necessary to enable the DPRC panel to conduct its review.
(c) If the DPRC panel finds no evidence in the record indicating that signals intelligence activities occurred involving personal information of or about the complainant, the DPRC panel shall render a decision to that effect.
(d) In all other cases, the DPRC panel shall determine:
(1) Whether, under the applicable law as set forth in the definition of a covered violation in the Executive order of October 7, 2022, the ODNI CLPO's determination whether a covered violation occurred was legally correct and supported by substantial evidence; and
(2) Whether, in the event of a covered violation, the ODNI CLPO's determination as to the appropriate remediation was consistent with the Executive order of October 7, 2022.
(e) If a DPRC panel decides that a determination by the ODNI CLPO does not meet the standard set out in paragraph (d) of this section, the DPRC panel shall issue its own determination.
(f) Prior to determining an appropriate remediation under paragraph (e) of this section, a DPRC panel shall seek through the ODNI CLPO the views of affected elements of the Intelligence Community regarding the appropriate remediation, including an assessment of impacts on the operations of the Intelligence Community and the national security of the United States. The panel shall take due account of these views as well as customary ways of addressing a violation of the type identified.
(g) A DPRC panel shall make its decision by majority vote. Each DPRC panel shall issue a written decision setting out its determinations and the specification of any appropriate remediation. The decision of each DPRC panel shall be final and binding with respect to the application for review before it and shall be controlling only as to that application for review.
(h) After the issuance of a written decision under paragraph (g) of this section, OPCL shall forward the decision to the ODNI CLPO. If the complainant submitted an application for review in the case, OPCL shall notify the complainant through the appropriate public authority in a qualifying state, without confirming or denying whether the complainant was subject to signals intelligence activities, that:
(1) The DPRC completed its review;
(2) The review either did not identify any covered violations or the Data Protection Review Court issued a determination requiring appropriate remediation; and
(3) The notification to the complainant constitutes the final agency action in the matter.
(i) A DPRC panel shall provide a classified report on information indicating a violation of any authority subject to the oversight of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to the Assistant Attorney General for National Security, who shall report violations to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court in accordance with its rules of procedure.
(j) For each application for review, OPCL shall maintain a record of the information reviewed by the DPRC panel and the decision of the DPRC panel, which records shall be made available for consideration as non-binding precedent to future DPRC panels considering applications for review.
§ 201.10
Guiding principles of law.
(a) The Executive order of October 7, 2022 and its terms shall be interpreted by the DPRC exclusively in light of United States law and the United
States legal tradition, and not any other source of law.
(b) In a DPRC panel's review of an application under § 201.9, the DPRC panel shall be guided by relevant decisions of the United States Supreme Court in the same way as are courts established under Article III of the United States Constitution, including those decisions regarding appropriate deference to relevant determinations of national security officials.
§ 201.11
Information security and classified national security information.
(a) All proceedings before and other activities of the DPRC and all activities of the Special Advocates shall be governed by Executive Order 13526 of December 29, 2009, “Classified National Security Information,” or any successor order, and this part.
(b) Judges may serve on a DPRC panel convened under § 201.7(a), and Special Advocates may be selected to assist a DPRC panel under § 201.8(a), only if they hold the requisite security clearances to access classified national security information. The DPRC and Special Advocates shall have no authority to declassify or grant any person access to any classified or otherwise privileged or protected information, including the information reviewed in or information about the existence or outcome of any proceedings before the DPRC or any information that would tend to reveal whether a complainant was subject to signals intelligence activities.
(c) The Department of Justice Security Officer shall be responsible for establishing security procedures for proceedings before and other activities of the DPRC and the Special Advocate, and for amending those procedures as necessary.
§ 201.12
Disclaimer.
This part governs the ability to obtain review of the ODNI CLPO's determinations by the DPRC in accordance with the redress mechanism established in section 3 of the Executive order of October 7, 2022. This part is not intended to, and does not, create any other entitlement, right, or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. This part is not intended to, and does not, modify the availability or scope of any judicial review of the decisions rendered through the redress mechanism, which is governed by existing law.
Pt. 202

# PART 202—ACCESS TO U.S. SENSITIVE PERSONAL DATA AND GOVERNMENT-RELATED DATA BY COUNTRIES OF CONCERN OR COVERED PERSONS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
202.101
Scope.
202.102
Rules of construction and interpretation.
202.103
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
202.104
Delegation of authorities.
202.105
Amendment, modification, or revocation.
202.106
Severability.

# Subpart B—Definitions
202.201
Access.
202.202
Attorney General.
202.203
Assistant Attorney General.
202.204
Biometric identifiers.
202.205
Bulk.
202.206
Bulk U.S. sensitive personal data.
202.207
CFIUS action.
202.208
China.
202.209
Country of concern.
202.210
Covered data transaction.
202.211
Covered person.
202.212
Covered personal identifiers.
202.213
Cuba.
202.214
Data brokerage.
202.215
Directing.
202.216
Effective date.
202.217
Employment agreement.
202.218
Entity.
202.219
Exempt transaction.
202.220
Former senior official.
202.221
Foreign person.
202.222
Government-related data.
202.223
Human biospecimens.
202.224
Human `omic data.
202.225
IEEPA.
202.226
Information or informational materials.
202.227
Interest.
202.228
Investment agreement.
202.229
Iran.
202.230
Knowingly.
202.231
Licenses; general and specific.
202.232
Linked.
202.233
Linkable.
202.234
Listed identifier.
202.235
National Security Division.
202.236
North Korea.
202.237
Order.
202.238
Person.
202.239
Personal communications.
202.240
Personal financial data.
202.241
Personal health data.
202.242
Precise geolocation data.
202.243
Prohibited transaction.
202.244
Property; property interest.
202.245
Recent former employees or contractors.
202.246
Restricted transaction.
202.247
Russia.
202.248
Security requirements.
202.249
Sensitive personal data.
202.250
Special Administrative Region of Hong Kong.
202.251
Special Administrative Region of Macau.
202.252
Telecommunications service.
202.253
Transaction.
202.254
Transfer.
202.255
United States.
202.256
United States person or U.S. person.
202.257
U.S. device.
202.258
Vendor agreement.
202.259
Venezuela.

# Subpart C—Prohibited Transactions and Related Activities
202.301
Prohibited data-brokerage transactions.
202.302
Other prohibited data-brokerage transactions involving potential onward transfer to countries of concern or covered persons.
202.303
Prohibited human `omic data and human biospecimen transactions.
202.304
Prohibited evasions, attempts, causing violations, and conspiracies.
202.305
Knowingly directing prohibited or restricted transactions.

# Subpart D—Restricted Transactions
202.401
Authorization to conduct restricted transactions.
202.402
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Exempt Transactions
202.501
Personal communications.
202.502
Information or informational materials.
202.503
Travel.
202.504
Official business of the United States Government.
202.505
Financial services.
202.506
Corporate group transactions.
202.507
Transactions required or authorized by Federal law or international agreements, or necessary for compliance with Federal law.
202.508
Investment agreements subject to a CFIUS action.
202.509
Telecommunications services.
202.510
Drug, biological product, and medical device authorizations.
202.511
Other clinical investigations and post-marketing surveillance data.

# Subpart F—Determination of Countries of Concern
202.601
Determination of countries of concern.

# Subpart G—Covered Persons
202.701
Designation of covered persons.
202.702
Procedures governing removal from the Covered Persons List.

# Subpart H—Licensing
202.801
General licenses.
202.802
Specific licenses.
202.803
General provisions.

# Subpart I—Advisory Opinions
202.901
Inquiries concerning application of this part.

# Subpart J—Due Diligence and Audit Requirements
202.1001
Due diligence for restricted transactions.
202.1002
Audits for restricted transactions.

# Subpart K—Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements
202.1101
Records and recordkeeping requirements.
202.1102
Reports to be furnished on demand.
202.1103
Annual reports.
202.1104
Reports on rejected prohibited transactions.

# Subpart L—Submitting Applications, Requests, Reports, and Responses
202.1201
Procedures.

# Subpart M—Penalties and Finding of Violation
202.1301
Penalties for violations.
202.1302
Process for pre-penalty notice.
202.1303
Penalty imposition.
202.1304
Administrative collection and litigation.
202.1305
Finding of violation.
202.1306
Opportunity to respond to a pre-penalty notice or finding of violation.

# Subpart N—Government-Related Location Data List
202.1401
Government-Related Location Data List.

# Authority:
50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.;
50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.;
E.O. 14117, 89 FR 15421.

# Source:
90 FR 1706, Jan. 8, 2025, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 202.101
Scope.
(a) Executive Order 14117 of February 28, 2024 (Preventing Access to Americans' Bulk Sensitive Personal Data and United States Government-Related Data by Countries of Concern) (“the Order”), directs the Attorney General to issue regulations that prohibit or otherwise restrict United States persons from engaging in any acquisition, holding, use, transfer, transportation, or exportation of, or dealing in, any property in which a foreign country or national thereof has any interest (“transaction”), where the transaction: involves United States Government-related data (“government-related data”) or bulk U.S. sensitive personal data, as defined by final rules implementing the Order; falls within a class of transactions that has been determined by the Attorney General to pose an unacceptable risk to the national security of the United States because the transactions may enable access by countries of concern or covered persons to government-related data or bulk U.S. sensitive personal data; and meets other criteria specified by the Order.
(b) This part contains regulations implementing the Order and addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13873 of May 15, 2019 (Securing the Information and Communications Technology and Services Supply Chain), and further addressed with additional measures in Executive Order 14034 of June 9, 2021 (Protecting Americans' Sensitive Data from Foreign Adversaries) and Executive Order 14117.
§ 202.102
Rules of construction and interpretation.
(a) The examples included in this part are provided for informational purposes and should not be construed to alter the meaning of the text of the regulations in this part.
(b) As used in this part, the term “including” means “including but not limited to.”
(c) All references to “days” in this part mean calendar days. In computing any time period specified in this part:
(1) Exclude the day of the event that triggers the period;
(2) Count every day, including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays; and
(3) Include the last day of the period, but if the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the period continues to run until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday.
§ 202.103
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
Nothing in this part shall be construed as altering or affecting any other authority, process, regulation, investigation, enforcement measure, or review provided by or established under any other provision of Federal law, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act.
§ 202.104
Delegation of authorities.
Any action that the Attorney General is authorized to take pursuant to the Order or pursuant to this part may be taken by the Assistant Attorney General for National Security or by any other person to whom the Attorney General or Assistant Attorney General for National Security in writing delegates authority so to act.
§ 202.105
Amendment, modification, or revocation.
Except as otherwise provided by law, any determinations, prohibitions, decisions, licenses (whether general or specific), guidance, authorizations, instructions, orders, or forms issued pursuant to this part may be amended, modified, or revoked, in whole or in part, at any time.
§ 202.106
Severability.
If any provision of this part is held to be invalid or unenforceable by its terms, or as applied to any person or circumstance, or stayed pending further agency action or judicial review, the provision is to be construed so as
to continue to give the maximum effect to the provision permitted by law, unless such holding will be one of utter invalidity or unenforceability, in which event the provision will be severable from this part and will not affect the remainder thereof.

# Subpart B—Definitions
§ 202.201
Access.
The term
access
means logical or physical access, including the ability to obtain, read, copy, decrypt, edit, divert, release, affect, alter the state of, or otherwise view or receive, in any form, including through information systems, information technology systems, cloud-computing platforms, networks, security systems, equipment, or software. For purposes of determining whether a transaction is a covered data transaction, access is determined without regard for the application or effect of any security requirements.
§ 202.202
Attorney General.
The term
Attorney General
means the Attorney General of the United States or the Attorney General's designee.
§ 202.203
Assistant Attorney General.
The term
Assistant Attorney General
means the Assistant Attorney General, National Security Division, United States Department of Justice, or the Assistant Attorney General's designee.
§ 202.204
Biometric identifiers.
The term
biometric identifiers
means measurable physical characteristics or behaviors used to recognize or verify the identity of an individual, including facial images, voice prints and patterns, retina and iris scans, palm prints and fingerprints, gait, and keyboard usage patterns that are enrolled in a biometric system and the templates created by the system.
§ 202.205
Bulk.
The term
bulk
means any amount of sensitive personal data that meets or exceeds the following thresholds at any point in the preceding 12 months, whether through a single covered data transaction or aggregated across covered data transactions involving the same U.S. person and the same foreign person or covered person:
(a) Human `omic data collected about or maintained on more than 1,000 U.S. persons, or, in the case of human genomic data, more than 100 U.S. persons;
(b) Biometric identifiers collected about or maintained on more than 1,000 U.S. persons;
(c) Precise geolocation data collected about or maintained on more than 1,000 U.S. devices;
(d) Personal health data collected about or maintained on more than 10,000 U.S. persons;
(e) Personal financial data collected about or maintained on more than 10,000 U.S. persons;
(f) Covered personal identifiers collected about or maintained on more than 100,000 U.S. persons; or
(g) Combined data, meaning any collection or set of data that contains more than one of the categories in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section, or that contains any listed identifier linked to categories in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, where any individual data type meets the threshold number of persons or devices collected or maintained in the aggregate for the lowest number of U.S. persons or U.S. devices in that category of data.
§ 202.206
Bulk U.S. sensitive personal data.
The term
bulk U.S. sensitive personal data
means a collection or set of sensitive personal data relating to U.S. persons, in any format, regardless of whether the data is anonymized, pseudonymized, de-identified, or encrypted, where such data meets or exceeds the applicable threshold set forth in § 202.205.
§ 202.207
CFIUS action.
The term
CFIUS action
means any agreement or condition the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States has entered into or imposed pursuant to 50 U.S.C. 4565(l)(1), (3), or (5) to resolve a national security risk involving access by a country of concern or covered person to sensitive personal data that the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States has
explicitly designated, in the agreement or document containing the condition, as a CFIUS action, including:
(a) Suspension of a proposed or pending transaction, as authorized under 50 U.S.C. 4565(l)(1);
(b) Entry into or imposition of any agreement or condition with any party to a covered transaction, as authorized under 50 U.S.C. 4565(l)(3); and
(c) The establishment of interim protections for covered transactions withdrawn before CFIUS's review or investigation is completed, as authorized under 50 U.S.C. 4565(l)(5).
§ 202.208
China.
The term
China
means the People's Republic of China, including the Special Administrative Region of Hong Kong and the Special Administrative Region of Macau, as well as any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof.
§ 202.209
Country of concern.
The term
country of concern
means any foreign government that, as determined by the Attorney General with the concurrence of the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Commerce:
(a) Has engaged in a long-term pattern or serious instances of conduct significantly adverse to the national security of the United States or security and safety of United States persons; and
(b) Poses a significant risk of exploiting government-related data or bulk U.S. sensitive personal data to the detriment of the national security of the United States or security and safety of U.S. persons.
§ 202.210
Covered data transaction.
(a)
Definition.
A
covered data transaction
is any transaction that involves any access by a country of concern or covered person to any government-related data or bulk U.S. sensitive personal data and that involves:
(1) Data brokerage;
(2) A vendor agreement;
(3) An employment agreement; or
(4) An investment agreement.
(b)
Examples
—(1)
Example 1.
A U.S. institution conducts medical research at its own laboratory in a country of concern, including sending several U.S.-citizen employees to that laboratory to perform and assist with the research. The U.S. institution does not engage in data brokerage or a vendor, employment, or investment agreement that gives a covered person or country of concern access to government-related data or bulk U.S. sensitive personal data. Because the U.S. institution does not engage in any data brokerage or enter into a vendor, employment, or investment agreement, the U.S. institution's research activity is not a covered data transaction.
(2)
Example 2.
A U.S. person engages in a vendor agreement with a covered person involving access to bulk U.S. sensitive personal data. The vendor agreement is a restricted transaction. To comply with the CISA security requirements, the U.S. person, among other things, uses data-level requirements to mitigate the risk that the covered person could access the data. The vendor agreement remains a covered data transaction subject to the requirements of this part.
(3)
Example 3.
A covered person engages in a vendor agreement with a U.S. person involving the U.S. person accessing bulk U.S. sensitive personal data already possessed by the covered person. The vendor agreement is not a covered data transaction because the transaction does not involve access by the covered person.
§ 202.211
Covered person.
(a)
Definition.
The term
covered person
means:
(1) A foreign person that is an entity that is 50% or more owned, directly or indirectly, individually or in the aggregate, by one or more countries of concern or persons described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section; or that is organized or chartered under the laws of, or has its principal place of business in, a country of concern;
(2) A foreign person that is an entity that is 50% or more owned, directly or indirectly, individually or in the aggregate, by one or more persons described in paragraphs (a)(1), (3), (4), or (5) of this section;
(3) A foreign person that is an individual who is an employee or contractor of a country of concern or of an
entity described in paragraphs (a)(1), (2), or (5) of this section;
(4) A foreign person that is an individual who is primarily a resident in the territorial jurisdiction of a country of concern; or
(5) Any person, wherever located, determined by the Attorney General:
(i) To be, to have been, or to be likely to become owned or controlled by or subject to the jurisdiction or direction of a country of concern or covered person;
(ii) To act, to have acted or purported to act, or to be likely to act for or on behalf of a country of concern or covered person; or
(iii) To have knowingly caused or directed, or to be likely to knowingly cause or direct a violation of this part.
(b)
Examples
—(1)
Example 1.
Foreign persons primarily resident in Cuba, Iran, or another country of concern would be covered persons.
(2)
Example 2.
Chinese or Russian citizens located in the United States would be treated as U.S. persons and would not be covered persons (except to the extent individually designated). They would be subject to the same prohibitions and restrictions as all other U.S. persons with respect to engaging in covered data transactions with countries of concern or covered persons.
(3)
Example 3.
Citizens of a country of concern who are primarily resident in a third country, such as Russian citizens primarily resident in a European Union country or Cuban citizens primarily resident in a South American country that is not a country of concern, would not be covered persons except to the extent they are individually designated or to the extent that they are employees or contractors of a country of concern government or a covered person that is an entity.
(4)
Example 4.
A foreign person is located abroad and is employed by a company headquartered in China. Because the company is a covered person that is an entity and the employee is located outside the United States, the employee is a covered person.
(5)
Example 5.
A foreign person is located abroad and is employed by a company that has been designated as a covered person. Because the foreign person is the employee of a covered person that is an entity and the employee is a foreign person, the person is a covered person.
(6)
Example 6.
A foreign person individual investor who principally resides in Venezuela owns 50% of a technology company that is solely organized under the laws of the United States. The investor is a covered person because the investor is a foreign person that is an individual who is primarily a resident in the territorial jurisdiction of a country of concern. The technology company is a U.S. person because it is an entity organized solely under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States. The technology company is not a covered person because it is not a foreign person and therefore does not meet the criteria of § 202.211(a)(2). However, the technology company could still be designated as a covered person following a determination that the technology company meets one or more criteria of § 202.211(a)(5).
(7)
Example 7.
Same as Example 6, but the technology company is additionally organized under the laws of Luxembourg. A U.S. company wishes to license bulk U.S. sensitive personal data to the technology company. The technology company is not a U.S. person because it is not solely organized under the laws of the United States. The technology company is a covered person because it is 50% or more owned, directly or indirectly, individually or in the aggregate, by a foreign person that is an individual who is primarily resident in the territorial jurisdiction of a country of concern. The transaction between the U.S. company and the technology company would be a prohibited data transaction.
(8)
Example 8.
A foreign person that lives in China owns 50% of Foreign Entity A. Foreign Entity A owns 100% of Foreign Entity B and 100% of Foreign Entity C. Foreign Entity B owns 20% of Foreign Entity D. Foreign Entity C owns 30% of Foreign Entity D. Foreign Entity D would be a covered person for two independent reasons. First, Foreign Entity D because it is “indirectly” 50% or more owned by Foreign Entity A (20% through Foreign Entity B and 30% through Foreign Entity C). Second, Foreign Entity D is directly
50% owned, in the aggregate, by Foreign Entity B and Foreign Entity C, each of which are covered persons because they are 50% or more owned by Foreign Entity A.
§ 202.212
Covered personal identifiers.
(a)
Definition.
The term
covered personal identifiers
means any listed identifier:
(1) In combination with any other listed identifier; or
(2) In combination with other data that is disclosed by a transacting party pursuant to the transaction such that the listed identifier is linked or linkable to other listed identifiers or to other sensitive personal data.
(b)
Exclusion.
The term
covered personal identifiers
excludes:
(1) Demographic or contact data that is linked only to other demographic or contact data (such as first and last name, birthplace, ZIP code, residential street or postal address, phone number, and email address and similar public account identifiers); and
(2) A network-based identifier, account-authentication data, or call-detail data that is linked only to other network-based identifier, account-authentication data, or call-detail data as necessary for the provision of telecommunications, networking, or similar service.
(c)
Examples of listed identifiers in combination with other listed identifiers
—(1)
Example 1.
A standalone listed identifier in isolation (
i.e.,
that is not linked to another listed identifier, sensitive personal data, or other data that is disclosed by a transacting party pursuant to the transaction such that the listed identifier is linked or linkable to other listed identifiers or to other sensitive personal data)—such as a Social Security Number or account username—would not constitute a covered personal identifier.
(2)
Example 2.
A listed identifier linked to another listed identifier—such as a first and last name linked to a Social Security number, a driver's license number linked to a passport number, a device Media Access Control (“MAC”) address linked to a residential address, an account username linked to a first and last name, or a mobile advertising ID linked to an email address—would constitute covered personal identifiers.
(3)
Example 3.
Demographic or contact data linked only to other demographic or contact data—such as a first and last name linked to a residential street address, an email address linked to a first and last name, or a customer loyalty membership record linking a first and last name to a phone number—would not constitute covered personal identifiers.
(4)
Example 4.
Demographic or contact data linked to other demographic or contact data and to another listed identifier—such as a first and last name linked to an email address and to an IP address—would constitute covered personal identifiers.
(5)
Example 5.
Account usernames linked to passwords as part of a sale of a dataset would constitute covered personal identifiers. Those pieces of account-authentication data are not linked as a necessary part of the provision of telecommunications, networking, or similar services. This combination would constitute covered personal identifiers.
(d)
Examples of a listed identifier in combination with other data disclosed by a transacting party
—(1)
Example 1.
A foreign person who is a covered person asks a U.S. company for a list of Media Access Control (“MAC”) addresses from devices that have connected to the wireless network of a U.S. fast-food restaurant located in a particular government building. The U.S. company then sells the list of MAC addresses, without any other listed identifiers or sensitive personal data, to the covered person. The disclosed MAC addresses, when paired with the other data disclosed by the covered person—that the devices “have connected to the wireless network of a U.S. fast-food restaurant located in a particular government building”—makes it so that the MAC addresses are linked or linkable to other sensitive personal data, in this case precise geolocation data of the location of the fast-food restaurant that the national security-related individuals frequent with their devices. This combination of data therefore meets the definition of covered personal identifiers.
(2)
Example 2.
A U.S. company sells to a country of concern a list of residential addresses that the company describes (whether in a heading on the list or separately to the country of concern as part of the transaction) as “addresses of members of a country of concern's opposition political party in New York City” or as “addresses of active-duty military officers who live in Howard County, Maryland” without any other listed identifiers or sensitive personal data. The data disclosed by the U.S. company's description, when paired with the disclosed addresses, makes the addresses linked or linkable to other listed identifiers or to other sensitive personal data of the U.S. individuals associated with them. This combination of data therefore meets the definition of covered personal identifiers.
(3)
Example 3.
A covered person asks a U.S. company for a bulk list of birth dates for “any American who visited a Starbucks in Washington, DC, in December 2023.” The U.S. company then sells the list of birth dates, without any other listed identifiers or sensitive personal data, to the covered person. The other data disclosed by the covered person—“any American who visited a Starbucks in Washington, DC, in December 2023”—does not make the birth dates linked or linkable to other listed identifiers or to other sensitive personal data. This combination of data therefore does not meet the definition of covered personal identifiers.
(4)
Example 4.
Same as Example 3, but the covered person asks the U.S. company for a bulk list of names (rather than birth dates) for “any American who visited a Starbucks in Washington, DC in December 2023.” The other data disclosed by the covered person—“any American who visited a Starbucks in Washington, DC, in December 2023”—does not make the list of names, without more, linked or linkable to other listed identifiers or to other sensitive personal data. This combination of data therefore does not meet the definition of covered personal identifiers.
(5)
Example 5.
A U.S. company sells to a covered person a list of residential addresses that the company describes (in a heading in the list or to the covered person as part of the transaction) as “households of Americans who watched more than 50% of episodes” of a specific popular TV show, without any other listed identifiers or sensitive personal data. The other data disclosed by the U.S. company—“Americans who watched more than 50% of episodes” of a specific popular TV show—does not increase the extent to which the addresses are linked or linkable to other listed identifiers or to other sensitive personal data. This combination of data therefore does not meet the definition of covered personal identifiers.
§ 202.213
Cuba.
The term
Cuba
means the Republic of Cuba, as well as any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof.
§ 202.214
Data brokerage.
(a)
Definition.
The term
data brokerage
means the sale of data, licensing of access to data, or similar commercial transactions, excluding an employment agreement, investment agreement, or a vendor agreement, involving the transfer of data from any person (the provider) to any other person (the recipient), where the recipient did not collect or process the data directly from the individuals linked or linkable to the collected or processed data.
(b)
Examples
—(1)
Example 1.
A U.S. company sells bulk U.S. sensitive personal data to an entity headquartered in a country of concern. The U.S. company engages in prohibited data brokerage.
(2)
Example 2.
A U.S. company enters into an agreement that gives a covered person a license to access government-related data held by the U.S. company. The U.S. company engages in prohibited data brokerage.
(3)
Example 3.
A U.S. organization maintains a database of bulk U.S. sensitive personal data and offers annual memberships for a fee that provide members a license to access that data. Providing an annual membership to a covered person that includes a license to access government-related data or bulk U.S. sensitive personal data would constitute prohibited data brokerage.
(4)
Example 4.
A U.S. company owns and operates a mobile app for U.S.
users with available advertising space. As part of selling the advertising space, the U.S. company provides IP addresses and advertising IDs of more than 100,000 U.S. users' devices to an advertising exchange based in a country of concern in a twelve-month period. The U.S. company's provision of this data as part of the sale of advertising space is a covered data transaction involving data brokerage and is a prohibited transaction because IP addresses and advertising IDs are listed identifiers that satisfy the definition of bulk covered personal identifiers in this transaction.
(5)
Example 5.
Same as Example 4, but the U.S. company provides the data to an advertising exchange based in the United States. As part of the sale of the advertising space, the U.S. advertising exchange provides the data to advertisers headquartered in a country of concern. The U.S. company's provision of the data to the U.S. advertising exchange would not be a transaction because it is between U.S. persons. The advertising exchange's provision of this data to the country of concern-based advertisers is data brokerage because it is a commercial transaction involving the transfer of data from the U.S. advertising exchange to the advertisers headquartered in the country of concern, where those country-of-concern advertisers did not collect or process the data directly from the individuals linked or linkable to the collected or processed data. Furthermore, the U.S. advertising exchange's provision of this data to the country of concern-based advertisers is a prohibited transaction.
(6)
Example 6.
A U.S. information technology company operates an autonomous driving platform that collects the precise geolocation data of its cars operating in the United States. The U.S. company sells or otherwise licenses this bulk data to its parent company headquartered in a country of concern to help develop artificial intelligence technology and machine learning capabilities. The sale or license is data brokerage and a prohibited transaction.
(7)
Example 7.
A U.S. company owns or operates a mobile app or website for U.S. users. That mobile app or website contains one or more tracking pixels or software development kits that were knowingly installed or approved for incorporation into the app or website by the U.S. company. The tracking pixels or software development kits transfer or otherwise provide access to government-related data or bulk U.S. sensitive personal data to a country of concern or covered person-owned social media app for targeted advertising. The U.S. company engages in prohibited data brokerage.
(8)
Example 8.
A non-U.S. company is contracted to develop a mobile app for a U.S. company. In developing the mobile app for that U.S. company, the non-U.S. company knowingly incorporates tracking pixels or software development kits into the mobile app that then transfer or otherwise provide access to government-related data or bulk U.S. sensitive personal data to a country of concern or covered person for targeted advertising, at the request of the U.S. company. The non-U.S. company has caused a violation of the data brokerage prohibition. If the U.S. company knowingly arranged the transfer of such data to the country of concern or covered person by requesting incorporation of the tracking pixels or software development kits, the U.S. company has engaged in prohibited data brokerage.
(9)
Example 9.
A U.S. researcher shares bulk human `omic data on U.S. persons with a researcher in a country of concern (a covered person) with whom the U.S. researcher is drafting a paper for submission to an academic journal. The two researchers exchange country of concern and bulk U.S. human `omic data over a period of several months to analyze and describe the findings of their research for the journal article. The U.S. person does not provide to or receive from the covered person or the covered person's employer any money or other valuable consideration as part of the authors' study. The U.S. person has not engaged in a covered data transaction involving data brokerage, because the transaction does not involve the sale of data, licensing of access to data, or similar commercial transaction involving the transfer of data to the covered person.
(10)
Example 10.
A U.S. researcher receives a grant from a university in a country of concern to study. bulk personal health data and bulk human `omic data on U.S. persons. The grant directs the researcher to share the underlying bulk U.S. sensitive personal data with the country of concern university (a covered person). The transaction is a covered data transaction because it involves access by a covered person to bulk U.S. sensitive personal data and is data brokerage because it involves the transfer of bulk U.S. sensitive personal data to a covered person in return for a financial benefit.
§ 202.215
Directing.
The term
directing
means having any authority (individually or as part of a group) to make decisions for or on behalf of an entity and exercising that authority.
§ 202.216
Effective date.
The term
effective date
refers to the effective date of this part, which is 12:01 a.m. ET on April 8, 2025.
§ 202.217
Employment agreement.
(a)
Definition.
The term
employment agreement
means any agreement or arrangement in which an individual, other than as an independent contractor, performs work or performs job functions directly for a person in exchange for payment or other consideration, including employment on a board or committee, executive-level arrangements or services, and employment services at an operational level.
(b)
Examples
—(1)
Example 1.
A U.S. company that conducts consumer human genomic testing collects and maintains bulk human genomic data from U.S. consumers. The U.S. company has global IT operations, including employing a team of individuals who are citizens of and primarily resident in a country of concern to provide back-end services. The agreements related to employing these individuals are employment agreements. Employment as part of the global IT operations team includes access to the U.S. company's systems containing the bulk human genomic data. These employment agreements would be prohibited transactions (because they involve access to bulk human genomic data).
(2)
Example 2.
A U.S. company develops its own mobile games and social media apps that collect the bulk U.S. sensitive personal data of its U.S. users. The U.S. company distributes these games and apps in the United States through U.S.-based digital distribution platforms for software applications. The U.S. company intends to hire as CEO an individual designated by the Attorney General as a covered person because of evidence the CEO acts on behalf of a country of concern. The agreement retaining the individual as CEO would be an employment agreement. The individual's authorities and responsibilities as CEO involve access to all data collected by the apps, including the bulk U.S. sensitive personal data. The CEO's employment would be a restricted transaction.
(3)
Example 3.
A U.S. company has derived U.S. persons' biometric identifiers by scraping public photos from social media platforms. The U.S. company stores the derived biometric identifiers in bulk, including face-data scans, for the purpose of training or enhancing facial-recognition software. The U.S. company intends to hire a foreign person, who primarily resides in a country of concern, as a project manager responsible for the database. The agreement retaining the project manager would be an employment agreement. The individual's employment as the lead project manager would involve access to the bulk biometric identifiers. The project manager's employment would be a restricted transaction.
(4)
Example 4.
A U.S. financial-services company seeks to hire a data scientist who is a citizen of a country of concern who primarily resides in that country of concern and who is developing a new artificial intelligence-based personal assistant that could be sold as a standalone product to the company's customers. The arrangement retaining the data scientist would be an employment agreement. As part of that individual's employment, the data scientist would have administrator rights that allow that individual to access, download, and transmit bulk quantities of personal financial data not ordinarily incident to and
part of the company's underlying provision of financial services to its customers. The data scientist's employment would be a restricted transaction.
(5)
Example 5.
A U.S. company sells goods and collects bulk personal financial data about its U.S. customers. The U.S. company appoints a citizen of a country of concern, who is located in a country of concern, to its board of directors. This director would be a covered person, and the arrangement appointing the director would be an employment agreement. In connection with the board's data security and cybersecurity responsibilities, the director could access the bulk personal financial data. The director's employment would be a restricted transaction.
§ 202.218
Entity.
The term
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
§ 202.219
Exempt transaction.
The term
exempt transaction
means a data transaction that is subject to one or more exemptions described in subpart E of this part.
§ 202.220
Former senior official.
The term
former senior official
means either a “former senior employee” or a “former very senior employee,” as those terms are defined in 5 CFR 2641.104.
§ 202.221
Foreign person.
The term
foreign person
means any person that is not a U.S. person.
§ 202.222
Government-related data.
(a)
Definition.
The term
government-related data
means the following:
(1) Any precise geolocation data, regardless of volume, for any location within any area enumerated on the Government-Related Location Data List in § 202.1401 which the Attorney General has determined poses a heightened risk of being exploited by a country of concern to reveal insights about locations controlled by the Federal Government, including insights about facilities, activities, or populations in those locations, to the detriment of national security, because of the nature of those locations or the personnel who work there. Such locations may include:
(i) The worksite or duty station of Federal Government employees or contractors who occupy a national security position as that term is defined in 5 CFR 1400.102(a)(4);
(ii) A military installation as that term is defined in 10 U.S.C. 2801(c)(4); or
(iii) Facilities or locations that otherwise support the Federal Government's national security, defense, intelligence, law enforcement, or foreign policy missions.
(2) Any sensitive personal data, regardless of volume, that a transacting party markets as linked or linkable to current or recent former employees or contractors, or former senior officials, of the United States Government, including the military and Intelligence Community.
(b)
Examples of government-related data marketed by a transacting party
—(1)
Example 1.
A U.S. company advertises the sale of a set of sensitive personal data as belonging to “active duty” personnel, “military personnel who like to read,” “DoD” personnel, “government employees,” or “communities that are heavily connected to a nearby military base.” The data is government-related data.
(2)
Example 2.
In discussing the sale of a set of sensitive personal data with a covered person, a U.S. company describes the dataset as belonging to members of a specific named organization. The identified organization restricts membership to current and former members of the military and their families. The data is government-related data.
§ 202.223
Human biospecimens.
(a) The term
human biospecimens
means a quantity of tissue, blood, urine, or other human-derived material, including such material classified under any of the following 10-digit Harmonized System-based Schedule B numbers:
(1) 0501.00.0000 Human hair, unworked, whether or not washed or scoured; waste of human hair
(2) 3001.20.0000 Extracts of glands or other organs or of their secretions
(3) 3001.90.0115 Glands and other organs, dried, whether or not powdered
(4) 3002.12.0010 Human blood plasma
(5) 3002.12.0020 Normal human blood sera, whether or not freeze-dried
(6) 3002.12.0030 Human immune blood sera
(7) 3002.12.0090 Antisera and other blood fractions, Other
(8) 3002.51.0000 Cell therapy products
(9) 3002.59.0000 Cell cultures, whether or not modified, Other
(10) 3002.90.5210 Whole human blood
(11) 3002.90.5250 Blood, human/animal, other
(12) 9705.21.0000 Human specimens and parts thereof
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the term
human biospecimens
does not include human biospecimens, including human blood, cell, and plasma-derived therapeutics, intended by a recipient solely for use in diagnosing, treating, or preventing any disease or medical condition.
§ 202.224
Human `omic data.
(a) The term
human `omic data
means:
(1)
Human genomic data.
Data representing the nucleic acid sequences that constitute the entire set or a subset of the genetic instructions found in a human cell, including the result or results of an individual's “genetic test” (as defined in 42 U.S.C. 300gg-91(d)(17)) and any related human genetic sequencing data.
(2)
Human epigenomic data.
Data derived from a systems-level analysis of human epigenetic modifications, which are changes in gene expression that do not involve alterations to the DNA sequence itself. These epigenetic modifications include modifications such as DNA methylation, histone modifications, and non-coding RNA regulation. Routine clinical measurements of epigenetic modifications for individualized patient care purposes would not be considered epigenomic data under this rule because such measurements would not entail a systems-level analysis of the epigenetic modifications in a sample.
(3)
Human proteomic data.
Data derived from a systems-level analysis of proteins expressed by a human genome, cell, tissue, or organism. Routine clinical measurements of proteins for individualized patient care purposes would not be considered proteomic data under this rule because such measurements would not entail a systems-level analysis of the proteins found in such a sample.
(4)
Human transcriptomic data.
Data derived from a systems-level analysis of RNA transcripts produced by the human genome under specific conditions or in a specific cell type. Routine clinical measurements of RNA transcripts for individualized patient care purposes would not be considered transcriptomic data under this rule because such measurements would not entail a systems-level analysis of the RNA transcripts in a sample.
(b) The term
human `omic data
excludes pathogen-specific data embedded in human `omic data sets.
§ 202.225
IEEPA.
The term
IEEPA
means the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
).
§ 202.226
Information or informational materials.
(a)
Definition.
The term
information or informational materials
is limited to expressive material and includes publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds. It does not include data that is technical, functional, or otherwise non-expressive.
(b)
Exclusions.
The term
information or informational materials
does not include:
(1) Information or informational materials not fully created and in existence at the date of the data transaction, or the substantive or artistic alteration or enhancement of information or informational materials, or the provision of marketing and business consulting services, including to market, produce or co-produce, or assist in the creation of information or informational materials;
(2) Items that were, as of April 30, 1994, or that thereafter become, controlled for export to the extent that such controls promote the nonproliferation or antiterrorism policies of the United States, or with respect to
which acts are prohibited by 18 U.S.C. chapter 37.
(c)
Examples
—(1)
Example 1.
A U.S. person enters into an agreement to create a customized dataset of bulk U.S. sensitive personal data that meets a covered person's specifications (such as the specific types and fields of data, date ranges, and other criteria) and to sell that dataset to the covered person. This customized dataset is not fully created and in existence at the date of the agreement, and therefore is not information or informational materials.
(2)
Example 2.
A U.S. company has access to several pre-existing databases of different bulk U.S. sensitive personal data. The U.S. company offers, for a fee, to use data analytics to link the data across these databases to the same individuals and to sell that combined dataset to a covered person. This service constitutes a substantive alteration or enhancement of the data in the pre-existing databases and therefore is not information or informational materials.
§ 202.227
Interest.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
§ 202.228
Investment agreement.
(a)
Definition.
The term
investment agreement
means an agreement or arrangement in which any person, in exchange for payment or other consideration, obtains direct or indirect ownership interests in or rights in relation to:
(1) Real estate located in the United States; or
(2) A U.S. legal entity.
(b)
Exclusion for passive investments.
The term
investment agreement
excludes any investment that:
(1) Is made:
(i) Into a publicly traded security, with “security” defined in section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10)), denominated in any currency that trades on a securities exchange or through the method of trading that is commonly referred to as “over-the-counter,” in any jurisdiction;
(ii) Into a security offered by:
(A) Any “investment company” (as defined in section 3(a)(1) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)(1)) that is registered with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, such as index funds, mutual funds, or exchange traded funds; or
(B) Any company that has elected to be regulated or is regulated as a business development company pursuant to section 54(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-53), or any derivative of either of the foregoing; or
(iii) As a limited partner into a venture capital fund, private equity fund, fund of funds, or other pooled investment fund, or private entity, if the limited partner's contribution is solely capital and the limited partner cannot make managerial decisions, is not responsible for any debts beyond its investment, and does not have the formal or informal ability to influence or participate in the fund's or a U.S. person's decision making or operations;
(2) Gives the covered person less than 10% in total voting and equity interest in a U.S. person; and
(3) Does not give a covered person rights beyond those reasonably considered to be standard minority shareholder protections, including (a) membership or observer rights on, or the right to nominate an individual to a position on, the board of directors or an equivalent governing body of the U.S. person, or (b) any other involvement, beyond the voting of shares, in substantive business decisions, management, or strategy of the U.S. person.
(c)
Examples
—(1)
Example 1.
A U.S. company intends to build a data center located in a U.S. territory. The data center will store bulk personal health data on U.S. persons. A foreign private equity fund located in a country of concern agrees to provide capital for the construction of the data center in exchange for acquiring a majority ownership stake in the data center. The agreement that gives the private equity fund a stake in the data center is an investment agreement. The investment agreement is a restricted transaction.
(2)
Example 2.
A foreign technology company that is subject to the jurisdiction of a country of concern and that the Attorney General has designated as a covered person enters into a shareholders' agreement with a U.S. business that develops mobile games and social media apps, acquiring a minority equity stake in the U.S. business. The shareholders' agreement is an investment agreement. These games and apps developed by the U.S. business systematically collect bulk U.S. sensitive personal data of its U.S. users. The investment agreement explicitly gives the foreign technology company the ability to access this data and is therefore a restricted transaction.
(3)
Example 3.
Same as Example 2, but the investment agreement either does not explicitly give the foreign technology company the right to access the data or explicitly forbids that access. The investment agreement nonetheless provides the foreign technology company with the sufficient ownership interest, rights, or other involvement in substantive business decisions, management, or strategy such that the investment does not constitute a passive investment. Because it is not a passive investment, the ownership interest, rights, or other involvement in substantive business decisions, management, or strategy gives the foreign technology company the ability to obtain logical or physical access, regardless of how the agreement formally distributes those rights. The investment agreement therefore involves access to bulk U.S. sensitive personal data. The investment agreement is a restricted transaction.
(4)
Example 4.
Same as Example 3, but the U.S. business does not maintain or have access to any government-related data or bulk U.S. sensitive personal data (
e.g.,
a pre-commercial company or startup company). Because the data transaction cannot involve access to any government-related data or bulk U.S. sensitive personal data, this investment agreement does not meet the definition of a covered data transaction and is not a restricted transaction.
§ 202.229
Iran.
The term
Iran
means the Islamic Republic of Iran, as well as any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof.
§ 202.230
Knowingly.
(a)
Definition.
The term
knowingly,
with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or reasonably should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result.
(b)
Examples
—(1)
Example 1.
A U.S. company sells DNA testing kits to U.S. consumers and maintains bulk human genomic data collected from those consumers. The U.S. company enters into a contract with a foreign cloud-computing company (which is not a covered person) to store the U.S. company's database of human genomic data. The foreign company hires employees from other countries, including citizens of countries of concern who primarily reside in a country of concern, to manage databases for its customers, including the U.S. company's human genomic database. There is no indication of evasion, such as the U.S. company knowingly directing the foreign company's employment agreements with covered persons, or the U.S. company engaging in and structuring these transactions to evade the regulations. The cloud-computing services agreement between the U.S. company and the foreign company would not be prohibited or restricted, because that covered data transaction is between a U.S. person and a foreign company that does not meet the definition of a covered person. The employment agreements between the foreign company and the covered persons would not be prohibited or restricted because those agreements are between foreign persons.
(2)
Example 2.
A U.S. company transmits the bulk U.S. sensitive personal data of U.S. persons to a country of concern, in violation of this part, using a fiber optic cable operated by another U.S. company. The U.S. cable operator has not knowingly engaged in a prohibited transaction or a restricted transaction solely by virtue of operating the fiber optic cable because the U.S. cable operator does not know, and reasonably should not know, the content of the traffic transmitted across the fiber optic cable.
(3)
Example 3.
A U.S. service provider provides a software platform on which a U.S. company processes the bulk U.S. sensitive personal data of its U.S.-person customers. While the U.S. service provider is generally aware of the nature of the U.S. company's business, the U.S. service provider is not aware of the kind or volume of data that the U.S. company processes on the platform, how the U.S. company uses the data, or whether the U.S. company engages in data transactions. The U.S. company also primarily controls access to its data on the platform, with the U.S. service provider accessing the data only for troubleshooting or technical support purposes, upon request by the U.S. company. Subsequently, without the actual knowledge of the U.S. service provider and without providing the U.S. service provider with any information from which the service provider should have known, the U.S. company grants access to the data on the U.S. service provider's software platform to a covered person through a covered data transaction, in violation of this part. The U.S. service provider itself, however, has not knowingly engaged in a restricted transaction by enabling the covered persons' access via its software platform.
(4)
Example 4.
Same as Example 3, but in addition to providing the software platform, the U.S. company's contract with the U.S. service provider also outsources the U.S. company's processing and handling of the data to the U.S. service provider. As a result, the U.S. service provider primarily controls access to the U.S. company's bulk U.S. sensitive personal data on the platform. The U.S. service provider employs a covered person and grants access to this data as part of this employment. Although the U.S. company's contract with the U.S. service provider is not a restricted transaction, the U.S. service provider's employment agreement with the covered person is a restricted transaction. The U.S. service provider has thus knowingly engaged in a restricted transaction by entering into an employment agreement that grants access to its employee because the U.S. service provider knew or should have known of its employee's covered person status and, as the party responsible for processing and handling the data, the U.S. service provider was aware of the kind and volume of data that the U.S. company processes on the platform.
(5)
Example 5.
A U.S. company provides cloud storage to a U.S. customer for the encrypted storage of the customer's bulk U.S. sensitive personal data. The U.S. cloud-service provider has an emergency back-up encryption key for all its customers' data, but the company is contractually limited to using the key to decrypt the data only at the customer's request. The U.S. customer's systems and access to the key become disabled, and the U.S. customer requests that the cloud-service provider use the back-up encryption key to decrypt the data and store it on a backup server while the customer restores its own systems. By having access to and using the backup encryption key to decrypt the data in accordance with the contractual limitation, the U.S. cloud-service provider does not and reasonably should not know the kind and volumes of the U.S. customer's data. If the U.S. customer later uses the cloud storage to knowingly engage in a prohibited transaction, the U.S. cloud-service provider's access to and use of the backup encryption key does not mean that the U.S. cloud-service provider has also knowingly engaged in a restricted transaction.
(6)
Example 6.
A prominent human genomics research clinic enters into a cloud-services contract with a U.S. cloud-service provider that specializes in storing and processing healthcare data to store bulk human genomic research data. The cloud-service provider hires IT personnel in a country of concern, who are thus covered persons. While the data that is stored is encrypted, the IT personnel can access the data in encrypted form. The employment agreement between the U.S. cloud-service provider and the IT professionals in the country of concern is a prohibited transaction because the agreement involves giving the IT personnel access to the encrypted data and constitutes a transfer of human genomic data. Given the nature of the research institution's work and the cloud-service provider's expertise in
storing healthcare data, the cloud-service provider reasonably should have known that the encrypted data is bulk U.S. sensitive personal data covered by the regulations. The cloud-service provider has therefore knowingly engaged in a prohibited transaction (because it involves access to human genomic data).
§ 202.231
Licenses; general and specific.
(a)
General license.
The term
general license
means a written license issued pursuant to this part authorizing a class of transactions and not limited to a particular person.
(b)
Specific license.
The term
specific license
means a written license issued pursuant to this part to a particular person or persons, authorizing a particular transaction or transactions in response to a written license application.
§ 202.232
Linked.
(a)
Definition.
The term
linked
means associated.
(b)
Examples
—(1)
Example 1.
A U.S. person transfers two listed identifiers in a single spreadsheet—such as a list of names of individuals and associated MAC addresses for those individuals' devices. The names and MAC addresses would be considered linked.
(2)
Example 2.
A U.S. person transfers two listed identifiers in different spreadsheets—such as a list of names of individuals in one spreadsheet and MAC addresses in another spreadsheet—to two related parties in two different covered data transactions. The names and MAC addresses would be considered linked, provided that some correlation existed between the names and MAC addresses (
e.g.,
associated employee ID number is also listed in both spreadsheets).
(3)
Example 3.
A U.S. person transfers a standalone list of MAC addresses, without any additional listed identifiers. The standalone list does not include covered personal identifiers. That standalone list of MAC addresses would not become covered personal identifiers even if the receiving party is capable of obtaining separate sets of other listed identifiers or sensitive personal data through separate covered data transactions with unaffiliated parties that would ultimately permit the association of the MAC addresses to specific persons. The MAC addresses would not be considered linked or linkable to those separate sets of other listed identifiers or sensitive personal data.
§ 202.233
Linkable.
The term
linkable
means reasonably capable of being linked.

# Note to § 202.233:
Data is considered linkable when the identifiers involved in a single covered data transaction, or in multiple covered data transactions or a course of dealing between the same or related parties, are reasonably capable of being associated with the same person(s). Identifiers are not linked or linkable when additional identifiers or data not involved in the relevant covered data transaction(s) would be necessary to associate the identifiers with the same specific person(s).
§ 202.234
Listed identifier.
The term
listed identifier
means any piece of data in any of the following data fields:
(a) Full or truncated government identification or account number (such as a Social Security number, driver's license or State identification number, passport number, or Alien Registration Number);
(b) Full financial account numbers or personal identification numbers associated with a financial institution or financial-services company;
(c) Device-based or hardware-based identifier (such as International Mobile Equipment Identity (“IMEI”), Media Access Control (“MAC”) address, or Subscriber Identity Module (“SIM”) card number);
(d) Demographic or contact data (such as first and last name, birth date, birthplace, ZIP code, residential street or postal address, phone number, email address, or similar public account identifiers);
(e) Advertising identifier (such as Google Advertising ID, Apple ID for Advertisers, or other mobile advertising ID (“MAID”));
(f) Account-authentication data (such as account username, account password, or an answer to security questions);
(g) Network-based identifier (such as Internet Protocol (“IP”) address or cookie data); or
(h) Call-detail data (such as Customer Proprietary Network Information (“CPNI”)).
§ 202.235
National Security Division.
The term
National Security Division
means the National Security Division of the United States Department of Justice.
§ 202.236
North Korea.
The term
North Korea
means the Democratic People's Republic of North Korea, and any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof.
§ 202.237
Order.
The term
Order
means Executive Order 14117 of February 28, 2024 (Preventing Access to Americans' Bulk Sensitive Personal Data and United States Government-Related Data by Countries of Concern), 89 FR 15421 (March 1, 2024).
§ 202.238
Person.
The term
person
means an individual or entity.
§ 202.239
Personal communications.
The term
personal communications
means any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value, as set out under 50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(1).
§ 202.240
Personal financial data.
The term
personal financial data
means data about an individual's credit, charge, or debit card, or bank account, including purchases and payment history; data in a bank, credit, or other financial statement, including assets, liabilities, debts, or trades in a securities portfolio; or data in a credit report or in a “consumer report” (as defined in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(d)).
§ 202.241
Personal health data.
The term
personal health data
means health information that indicates, reveals, or describes the past, present, or future physical or mental health or condition of an individual; the provision of healthcare to an individual; or the past, present, or future payment for the provision of healthcare to an individual. This term includes basic physical measurements and health attributes (such as bodily functions, height and weight, vital signs, symptoms, and allergies); social, psychological, behavioral, and medical diagnostic, intervention, and treatment history; test results; logs of exercise habits; immunization data; data on reproductive and sexual health; and data on the use or purchase of prescribed medications.
§ 202.242
Precise geolocation data.
The term
precise geolocation data
means data, whether real-time or historical, that identifies the physical location of an individual or a device with a precision of within 1,000 meters.
§ 202.243
Prohibited transaction.
The term
prohibited transaction
means a data transaction that is subject to one or more of the prohibitions described in subpart C of this part.
§ 202.244
Property; property interest.
The terms
property
and
property interest
include money; checks; drafts; bullion; bank deposits; savings accounts; debts; indebtedness; obligations; notes; guarantees; debentures; stocks; bonds; coupons; any other financial instruments; bankers acceptances; mortgages, pledges, liens, or other rights in the nature of security; warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, or any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness; letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder; powers of attorney; goods; wares; merchandise; chattels; stocks on hand; ships; goods on ships; real estate mortgages; deeds of trust; vendors' sales agreements; land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein; options; negotiable instruments; trade acceptances; royalties; book accounts; accounts payable; judgments; patents; trademarks or copyrights; insurance policies; safe deposit boxes and their contents; annuities; pooling agreements; services of any nature whatsoever; contracts of
any nature whatsoever; any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
§ 202.245
Recent former employees or contractors.
The terms
recent former employees
or
recent former contractors
mean employees or contractors who worked for or provided services to the United States Government, in a paid or unpaid status, within the past 2 years of a potential covered data transaction.
§ 202.246
Restricted transaction.
The term
restricted transaction
means a data transaction that is subject to subpart D of this part.
§ 202.247
Russia.
The term
Russia
means the Russian Federation, and any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof.
§ 202.248
Security requirements.
The term
security requirements
means the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Agency (“CISA”) Security Requirements for Restricted Transactions E.O. 14117 Implementation, January 2025. This material is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This incorporation by reference (“IBR”) material is available for inspection at the Department of Justice and at the National Archives and Records Administration (“NARA”). Please contact the Foreign Investment Review Section, National Security Division, U.S. Department of Justice, 175 N St. NE, Washington, DC 20002, telephone: 202-514-8648,
NSD.FIRS.datasecurity@usdoj.gov; www.justice.gov/nsd.
For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations
or email
fr.inspection@nara.gov.
The material may be obtained from the National Security Division and the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), Mail Stop 0380, Department of Homeland Security, 245 Murray Lane, Washington, DC 20528-0380;
central@cisa.gov;
888-282-0870;
www.cisa.gov/.
§ 202.249
Sensitive personal data.
(a)
Definition.
The term
sensitive personal data
means covered personal identifiers, precise geolocation data, biometric identifiers, human `omic data, personal health data, personal financial data, or any combination thereof.
(b)
Exclusions.
The term
sensitive personal data,
and each of the categories of
sensitive personal data,
excludes:
(1) Public or nonpublic data that does not relate to an individual, including such data that meets the definition of a “trade secret” (as defined in 18 U.S.C. 1839(3)) or “proprietary information” (as defined in 50 U.S.C. 1708(d)(7));
(2) Data that is, at the time of the transaction, lawfully available to the public from a Federal, State, or local government record (such as court records) or in widely distributed media (such as sources that are generally available to the public through unrestricted and open-access repositories);
(3) Personal communications; and
(4) Information or informational materials and ordinarily associated metadata or metadata reasonably necessary to enable the transmission or dissemination of such information or informational materials.
§ 202.250
Special Administrative Region of Hong Kong.
The term
Special Administrative Region of Hong Kong
means the Special Administrative Region of Hong Kong, and any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof.
§ 202.251
Special Administrative Region of Macau.
The term
Special Administrative Region of Macau
means the Special Administrative Region of Macau, and any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof.
§ 202.252
Telecommunications service.
The term
telecommunications service
means the provision of voice and data communications services regardless of format or mode of delivery, including communications services delivered over cable, Internet Protocol, wireless,
fiber, or other transmission mechanisms, as well as arrangements for network interconnection, transport, messaging, routing, or international voice, text, and data roaming.
§ 202.253
Transaction.
The term
transaction
means any acquisition, holding, use, transfer, transportation, exportation of, or dealing in any property in which a foreign country or national thereof has an interest.
§ 202.254
Transfer.
The term
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
§ 202.255
United States.
The term
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
§ 202.256
United States person or U.S. person.
(a)
Definition.
The terms
United States person
and
U.S. person
mean any United States citizen, national, or lawful permanent resident; any individual admitted to the United States as a refugee under 8 U.S.C. 1157 or granted asylum under 8 U.S.C. 1158; any entity organized solely under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches); or any person in the United States.
(b)
Examples
—(1)
Example 1.
An individual is a citizen of a country of concern and is in the United States. The individual is a U.S. person.
(2)
Example 2.
An individual is a U.S. citizen. The individual is a U.S. person, regardless of location.
(3)
Example 3.
An individual is a dual citizen of the United States and a country of concern. The individual is a U.S. person, regardless of location.
(4)
Example 4.
An individual is a citizen of a country of concern, is not a permanent resident alien of the United States, and is outside the United States. The individual is a foreign person.
(5)
Example 5.
A company is organized under the laws of the United States and has a foreign branch in a country of concern. The company, including its foreign branch, is a U.S. person.
(6)
Example 6.
A parent company is organized under the laws of the United States and has a subsidiary organized under the laws of a country of concern. The subsidiary is a foreign person regardless of the degree of ownership by the parent company; the parent company is a U.S. person.
(7)
Example 7.
A company is organized under the laws of a country of concern and has a branch in the United States. The company, including its U.S. branch, is a foreign person.
(8)
Example 8.
A parent company is organized under the laws of a country of concern and has a subsidiary organized under the laws of the United States. The subsidiary is a U.S. person regardless of the degree of ownership by the parent company; the parent company is a foreign person.
§ 202.257
U.S. device.
The term
U.S. device
means any device with the capacity to store or transmit data that is linked or linkable to a U.S. person.
§ 202.258
Vendor agreement.
(a)
Definition.
The term
vendor agreement
means any agreement or arrangement, other than an employment agreement, in which any person provides goods or services to another person, including cloud-computing services, in exchange for payment or other consideration.
(b)
Examples
—(1)
Example 1.
A U.S. company collects bulk precise geolocation data from U.S. users through an app. The U.S. company enters into an agreement with a company headquartered in a country of concern to process and store this data. This vendor agreement is a restricted transaction.
(2)
Example 2.
A medical facility in the United States contracts with a company headquartered in a country of concern to provide IT-related services. The contract governing the provision of services is a vendor agreement. The medical facility has bulk personal health data on its U.S. patients. The IT services provided under the contract involve access to the medical facility's systems containing the bulk personal health data. This vendor agreement is a restricted transaction.
(3)
Example 3.
A U.S. company, which is owned by an entity headquartered in a country of concern and has been designated a covered person, establishes a new data center in the United States to offer managed services. The U.S. company's data center serves as a vendor to various U.S. companies to store bulk U.S. sensitive personal data collected by those companies. These vendor agreements are restricted transactions.
(4)
Example 4.
A U.S. company develops mobile games that collect bulk precise geolocation data and biometric identifiers of U.S.-person users. The U.S. company contracts part of the software development to a foreign person who is primarily resident in a country of concern and is a covered person. The contract with the foreign person is a vendor agreement. The software-development services provided by the covered person under the contract involve access to the bulk precise geolocation data and biometric identifiers. This is a restricted transaction.
(5)
Example 5.
A U.S. multinational company maintains bulk U.S. sensitive personal data of U.S. persons. This company has a foreign branch, located in a country of concern, that has access to this data. The foreign branch contracts with a local company located in the country of concern to provide cleaning services for the foreign branch's facilities. The contract is a vendor agreement, the foreign branch is a U.S. person, and the local company is a covered person. Because the services performed under this vendor agreement do not “involve access to” the bulk U.S. sensitive personal data, the vendor agreement would not be a covered data transaction.
§ 202.259
Venezuela.
The term
Venezuela
means the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, and any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof.

# Subpart C—Prohibited Transactions and Related Activities
§ 202.301
Prohibited data-brokerage transactions.
(a)
Prohibition.
Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to subparts E or H of this part or any other provision of this part, no U.S. person, on or after the effective date, may knowingly engage in a covered data transaction involving data brokerage with a country of concern or covered person.
(b)
Examples
—(1)
Example 1.
A U.S. subsidiary of a company headquartered in a country of concern develops an artificial intelligence chatbot in the United States that is trained on the bulk U.S. sensitive personal data of U.S. persons. While not its primary commercial use, the chatbot is capable of reproducing or otherwise disclosing the bulk U.S. sensitive personal health data that was used to train the chatbot when responding to queries. The U.S. subsidiary knowingly licenses subscription-based access to that chatbot
worldwide, including to covered persons such as its parent entity. Although licensing use of the chatbot itself may not necessarily “involve access” to bulk U.S. sensitive personal data, the U.S. subsidiary knows or should know that the license can be used to obtain access to the U.S. persons' bulk sensitive personal training data if prompted. The licensing of access to this bulk U.S. sensitive personal data is data brokerage because it involves the transfer of data from the U.S. company (
i.e.,
the provider) to licensees (
i.e.,
the recipients), where the recipients did not collect or process the data directly from the individuals linked or linkable to the collected or processed data. Even though the license did not explicitly provide access to the data, this is a prohibited transaction because the U.S. company knew or should have known that the use of the chatbot pursuant to the license could be used to obtain access to the training data, and because the U.S. company licensed the product to covered persons.
(2) [Reserved]
§ 202.302
Other prohibited data-brokerage transactions involving potential onward transfer to countries of concern or covered persons.
(a)
Prohibition.
Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, no U.S. person, on or after the effective date, may knowingly engage in any transaction that involves any access by a foreign person to government-related data or bulk U.S. sensitive personal data and that involves data brokerage with any foreign person that is not a covered person unless the U.S. person:
(1) Contractually requires that the foreign person refrain from engaging in a subsequent covered data transaction involving data brokerage of the same data with a country of concern or covered person; and
(2) Reports any known or suspected violations of this contractual requirement in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Reporting known or suspected violations
—(1)
When reports are due.
U.S. persons shall file reports within 14 days of the U.S. person becoming aware of a known or suspected violation.
(2)
Contents of reports.
Reports on known or suspected violations shall include the following, to the extent the information is known and available to the person filing the report at the time of the report:
(i) The name and address of the U.S. person reporting the known or suspected violation of the contractual requirement in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section;
(ii) A description of the known or suspected violation, including:
(A) Date of known or suspected violation;
(B) Description of the data-brokerage transaction referenced in paragraph (a) of this section;
(C) Description of the contractual provision prohibiting the onward transfer of the same data to a country of concern or covered person;
(D) Description of the known or suspected violation of the contractual obligation prohibiting the foreign person from engaging in a subsequent covered data transaction involving the same data with a country of concern or a covered person;
(E) Any persons substantively participating in the transaction referenced in paragraph (a) of this section;
(F) Information about the known or suspected persons involved in the onward data transfer transaction, including the name and location of any covered persons or countries of concern;
(G) A copy of any relevant documentation received or created in connection with the transaction; and
(iii) Any other information that the Department of Justice may require or any other information that the U.S. person filing the report believes to be pertinent to the known or suspected violation or the implicated covered person.
(3)
Additional contents; format and method of submission.
Reports required by this section must be submitted in accordance with this section and with subpart L of this part.
(c)
Examples
—(1)
Example 1.
A U.S. business knowingly enters into an agreement to sell bulk human genomic data to a European business that is not a covered person. The U.S. business is required to include in that agreement a
limitation on the European business' right to resell or otherwise engage in a covered data transaction involving data brokerage of that data to a country of concern or covered person. Otherwise, the agreement would be a prohibited transaction.
(2)
Example 2.
A U.S. company owns and operates a mobile app for U.S. users with available advertising space. As part of selling the advertising space, the U.S. company provides the bulk precise geolocation data, IP address, and advertising IDs of its U.S. users' devices to an advertising exchange based in Europe that is not a covered person. The U.S. company's provision of this data to the advertising exchange is data brokerage and a prohibited transaction unless the U.S. company obtains a contractual commitment from the advertising exchange not to engage in any covered data transactions involving data brokerage of that same data with a country of concern or covered person.
(3)
Example 3.
A U.S. business knowingly enters into an agreement to buy bulk human genomic data from a European business that is not a covered person. This provision does not require the U.S. business to include any contractual limitation because the transaction does not involve access by the foreign person.
§ 202.303
Prohibited human `omic data and human biospecimen transactions.
Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, no U.S. person, on or after the effective date, may knowingly engage in any covered data transaction with a country of concern or covered person that involves access by that country of concern or covered person to bulk U.S. sensitive personal data that involves bulk human `omic data, or to human biospecimens from which bulk human `omic data could be derived.
§ 202.304
Prohibited evasions, attempts, causing violations, and conspiracies.
(a)
Prohibition.
Any transaction on or after the effective date that has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited. Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b)
Examples
—(1)
Example 1.
A U.S. data broker seeks to sell bulk U.S. sensitive personal data to a foreign person who primarily resides in China. With knowledge that the foreign person is a covered person and with the intent to evade the regulations, the U.S. data broker invites the foreign person to travel to the United States to consummate the data transaction and transfer the bulk U.S. sensitive personal data in the United States. After completing the transaction, the person returns to China with the bulk U.S. sensitive personal data. The transaction in the United States is not a covered data transaction because the person who resides in China is a U.S. person while in the United States (unless that person was individually designated as a covered person pursuant to § 202.211(a)(5), in which case their covered person status would remain, even while in the United States, and the transaction would be a covered data transaction). However, the U.S. data broker has structured the transaction to evade the regulation's prohibitions on covered data transactions with covered persons. As a result, this transaction has the purpose of evading the regulations and is prohibited.
(2)
Example 2.
A Russian national, who is employed by a corporation headquartered in Russia, travels to the United States to conduct business with the Russian company's U.S. subsidiary, including with the purpose of obtaining bulk U.S. sensitive personal data from the U.S. subsidiary. The U.S. subsidiary is a U.S. person, the Russian corporation is a covered person, and the Russian employee is a covered person while outside the United States but a U.S. person while temporarily in the United States (unless that Russian employee was individually designated as a covered person pursuant to § 202.211(a)(5), in which case their covered person status would remain, even while in the United States, and the transaction would be a covered data transaction). With knowledge of these facts, the U.S. subsidiary licenses access to bulk U.S. sensitive personal
data to the Russian employee while in the United States, who then returns to Russia. This transaction has the purpose of evading the regulations and is prohibited.
(3)
Example 3.
A U.S. subsidiary of a company headquartered in a country of concern collects bulk precise geolocation data from U.S. persons. The U.S. subsidiary is a U.S. person, and the parent company is a covered person. With the purpose of evading the regulations, the U.S. subsidiary enters into a vendor agreement with a foreign company that is not a covered person. The vendor agreement provides the foreign company access to the data. The U.S. subsidiary knows (or reasonably should know) that the foreign company is a shell company, and knows that it subsequently outsources the vendor agreement to the U.S. subsidiary's parent company. This transaction has the purpose of evading the regulations and is prohibited.
(4)
Example 4.
A U.S. company collects bulk personal health data from U.S. persons. With the purpose of evading the regulations, the U.S. company enters into a vendor agreement with a foreign company that is not a covered person. The agreement provides the foreign company access to the data. The U.S. company knows (or reasonably should know) that the foreign company is a front company staffed primarily by covered persons. The U.S. company has not complied with either the security requirements in § 202.248 or other applicable requirements for conducting restricted transactions as detailed in subpart J of this part. This transaction has the purpose of evading the regulations and is prohibited.
(5)
Example 5.
A U.S. online gambling company uses an artificial intelligence algorithm to analyze collected bulk covered personal identifiers to identify users based on impulsivity for targeted advertising. The algorithm is trained on bulk covered personal identifiers and may reveal that raw data. A U.S. subsidiary of a company headquartered in a country of concern knows that the algorithm can reveal the training data. For the purpose of evasion, the U.S. subsidiary licenses the derivative algorithm from the U.S. online gambling company for the purpose of accessing bulk sensitive personal identifiers from the training data that would not otherwise be accessible to the parent company and shares the algorithm with the parent company so that the parent company can obtain the bulk covered personal identifiers. The U.S. subsidiary's licensing transaction with the parent company has the purpose of evading the regulations and is prohibited.
§ 202.305
Knowingly directing prohibited or restricted transactions.
(a)
Prohibition.
Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, no U.S. person, on or after the effective date, may knowingly direct any covered data transaction that would be a prohibited transaction or restricted transaction that fails to comply with the requirements of subpart D of this part and all other applicable requirements under this part, if engaged in by a U.S. person.
(b)
Examples
—(1)
Example 1.
A U.S. person is an officer, senior manager, or equivalent senior-level employee at a foreign company that is not a covered person, and the foreign company undertakes a covered data transaction at that U.S. person's direction or with that U.S. person's approval when the covered data transaction would be prohibited if performed by a U.S. person. The U.S. person has knowingly directed a prohibited transaction.
(2)
Example 2.
Several U.S. persons launch, own, and operate a foreign company that is not a covered person, and that foreign company, under the U.S. persons' operation, undertakes covered data transactions that would be prohibited if performed by a U.S. person. The U.S. persons have knowingly directed a prohibited transaction.
(3)
Example 3.
A U.S. person is employed at a U.S.-headquartered multinational company that has a foreign affiliate that is not a covered person. The U.S. person instructs the U.S. company's compliance unit to change (or approve changes to) the operating policies and procedures of the foreign affiliate with the specific purpose of allowing the foreign affiliate to undertake covered data transactions that would be prohibited if performed by a
U.S. person. The U.S. person has knowingly directed prohibited transactions.
(4)
Example 4.
A U.S. bank processes a payment from a U.S. person to a covered person, or from a covered person to a U.S. person, as part of that U.S. person's engagement in a prohibited transaction. The U.S. bank has not knowingly directed a prohibited transaction, and its activity would not be prohibited (although the U.S. person's covered data transaction would be prohibited).
(5)
Example 5.
A U.S. financial institution underwrites a loan or otherwise provides financing for a foreign company that is not a covered person, and the foreign company undertakes covered data transactions that would be prohibited if performed by a U.S. person. The U.S. financial institution has not knowingly directed a prohibited transaction, and its activity would not be prohibited.
(6)
Example 6.
A U.S. person, who is employed at a foreign company that is not a covered person, signs paperwork approving the foreign company's procurement of real estate for its operations. The same foreign company separately conducts data transactions that use or are facilitated by operations at that real estate location and that would be prohibited transactions if performed by a U.S. person, but the U.S. employee has no role in approving or directing those separate data transactions. The U.S. person has not knowingly directed a prohibited transaction, and the U.S. person's activity would not be prohibited.
(7)
Example 7.
A U.S. company owns or operates a submarine telecommunications cable with one landing point in a foreign country that is not a country of concern and one landing point in a country of concern. The U.S. company leases capacity on the cable to U.S. customers that transmit bulk U.S. sensitive personal data to the landing point in the country of concern, including transmissions as part of prohibited transactions. The U.S. company's ownership or operation of the cable does not constitute knowingly directing a prohibited transaction, and its ownership or operation of the cable would not be prohibited (although the U.S. customers' covered data transactions would be prohibited).
(8)
Example 8.
A U.S. person engages in a vendor agreement involving bulk U.S. sensitive personal data with a foreign person who is not a covered person. Such vendor agreement is not a restricted or prohibited transaction. The foreign person then employs an individual who is a covered person and grants them access to bulk U.S. sensitive personal data without the U.S. person's knowledge or direction. There is no covered data transaction between the U.S. person and the covered person, and there is no indication that the parties engaged in these transactions with the purpose of evading the regulations (such as the U.S. person having knowingly directed the foreign person's employment agreement with the covered person or the parties knowingly structuring a restricted transaction into these multiple transactions with the purpose of evading the prohibition). The U.S. person has not knowingly directed a restricted transaction.
(9)
Example 9.
A U.S. company sells DNA testing kits to U.S. consumers and maintains bulk human genomic data collected from those consumers. The U.S. company enters into a contract with a foreign cloud-computing company (which is not a covered person) to store the U.S. company's database of human genomic data. The foreign company hires employees from other countries, including citizens of countries of concern who primarily reside in a country of concern, to manage databases for its customers, including the U.S. company's human genomic database. There is no indication of evasion, such as the U.S. company knowingly directing the foreign company's employment agreements or the U.S. company knowingly engaging in and structuring these transactions to evade the regulations. The cloud-computing services agreement between the U.S. company and the foreign company would not be prohibited or restricted because that transaction is between a U.S. person and a foreign company that does not meet the definition of a covered person. The employment agreements between the foreign company and the covered persons would not be prohibited or restricted because those
agreements are between foreign persons.

# Subpart D—Restricted Transactions
§ 202.401
Authorization to conduct restricted transactions.
(a)
Restricted transactions.
Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to subparts E or H of this part or any other provision of this part, no U.S. person, on or after the effective date, may knowingly engage in a covered data transaction involving a vendor agreement, employment agreement, or investment agreement with a country of concern or covered person unless the U.S. person complies with the security requirements (as defined by § 202.248) required by this subpart D and all other applicable requirements under this part.
(b) This subpart D does not apply to covered data transactions involving access to bulk human `omic data or human biospecimens from which such data can be derived, and which are subject to the prohibition in § 202.303.
(c)
Examples
—(1)
Example 1.
A U.S. company engages in an employment agreement with a covered person to provide information technology support. As part of their employment, the covered person has access to personal financial data. The U.S. company implements and complies with the security requirements. The employment agreement is authorized as a restricted transaction because the company has complied with the security requirements.
(2)
Example 2.
A U.S. company engages in a vendor agreement with a covered person to store bulk personal health data. Instead of implementing the security requirements as identified by reference in this subpart D, the U.S. company implements different controls that it believes mitigate the covered person's access to the bulk personal health data. Because the U.S. person has not complied with the security requirements, the vendor agreement is not authorized and thus is a prohibited transaction.
(3)
Example 3.
A U.S. person engages in a vendor agreement involving bulk U.S. sensitive personal data with a foreign person who is not a covered person. The foreign person then employs an individual who is a covered person and grants them access to bulk U.S. sensitive personal data without the U.S. person's knowledge or direction. There is no covered data transaction between the U.S. person and the covered person, and there is no indication that the parties engaged in these transactions with the purpose of evading the regulations (such as the U.S. person having knowingly directed the foreign person's employment agreement with the covered person or the parties knowingly structuring a prohibited transaction into these multiple transactions with the purpose of evading the prohibition). As a result, neither the vendor agreement nor the employment agreement would be a restricted transaction.
[90 FR 1706, Jan. 8, 2025, as amended at 90 FR 16466, Apr. 18, 2025]
§ 202.402
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Exempt Transactions
§ 202.501
Personal communications.
This part does not apply to data transactions to the extent that they involve any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
§ 202.502
Information or informational materials.
This part does not apply to data transactions to the extent that they involve the importation from any country, or the exportation to any country, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission, of any information or informational materials.
§ 202.503
Travel.
This part does not apply to data transactions to the extent that they are ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation of accompanied baggage for personal use; maintenance within any country, including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use; and arrangement or facilitation of such travel, including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.
§ 202.504
Official business of the United States Government.
(a)
Exemption.
Subparts C, and D, J, and K (other than § 202.1102 and § 202.1104) of this part do not apply to data transactions to the extent that they are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by its employees, grantees, or contractors; any authorized activity of any United States Government department or agency (including an activity that is performed by a Federal depository institution or credit union supervisory agency in the capacity of receiver or conservator); or transactions conducted pursuant to a grant, contract, or other agreement entered into with the United States Government.
(b)
Examples
—(1)
Example 1.
A U.S. hospital receives a Federal grant to conduct human genomic research on U.S. persons. As part of that federally funded human genomic research, the U.S. hospital contracts with a foreign laboratory that is a covered person, hires a researcher that is a covered person, and gives the laboratory and researcher access to the human biospecimens and human genomic data in bulk. The contract with the foreign laboratory and the employment of the researcher are exempt transactions but would be prohibited transactions if they were not part of the federally funded research.
(2)
Example 2.
A U.S. research institution receives a Federal grant to conduct human genomic research on U.S. and foreign persons. The Federal grant directs the U.S. research institution to publicize the results of its research, including the underlying human genomic data, via an internet-accessible database open to public health researchers with valid log-in credentials who pay a small annual fee to access the database, including covered persons primarily resident in a country of concern. The Federal grant does not cover the full costs of the authorized human genomic research or creation and publication of the database. The U.S. research institution obtains funds from private institutions and donors to fund the remaining costs. The human genomic research authorized by the Federal grant and publication of the database at the direction of the Federal grant would constitute a “transaction[ ] conducted pursuant to a grant, contract, or other agreement entered into with the United States Government.” The U.S. research institution must still comply with any requirements or prohibitions on sharing bulk U.S. sensitive personal data with countries of concern or covered persons required by the Federal grantmaker.
(3)
Example 3.
Same as Example 2, but the Federal grant is limited in scope to funding the U.S. research institution's purchase of equipment needed to conduct the human genomic research and does not include funding related to publication of the data. The Federal grant does not direct or authorize the U.S. research institution to publicize the human genomic research or make it available to country of concern or covered person researchers via the database for which researchers pay an annual fee to access, or otherwise fund the conduct of the human genomic research. The U.S. research institution contracts with a foreign laboratory that is a covered person and gives the laboratory access to the bulk human genomic data. The contract with the foreign laboratory is not an exempt transaction because that transaction is not within the scope of the Federal grant.
§ 202.505
Financial services.
(a)
Exemption.
Subparts C, D, J, and K (other than § 202.1102 and § 202.1104) of this part do not apply to data transactions, to the extent that they are ordinarily incident to and part of the provision of financial services, including:
(1) Banking, capital-markets (including investment-management services as well as trading and underwriting of securities, commodities, and derivatives), or financial-insurance services;
(2) A financial activity authorized for national banks by 12 U.S.C. 24 (Seventh) and rules and regulations and written interpretations of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency thereunder;
(3) An activity that is “financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity” or “complementary to a financial activity,” section (k)(1), as set forth in section (k)(4) of the Bank
Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1843(k)(4)) and rules and regulations and written interpretations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System thereunder;
(4) The transfer of personal financial data or covered personal identifiers incidental to the purchase and sale of goods and services (such as the purchase, sale, or transfer of consumer products and services through online shopping or e-commerce marketplaces);
(5) The provision or processing of payments or funds transfers (such as person-to-person, business-to-person, and government-to-person funds transfers) involving the transfer of personal financial data or covered personal identifiers, or the provision of services ancillary to processing payments and funds transfers (such as services for payment dispute resolution, payor authentication, tokenization, payment gateway, payment fraud detection, payment resiliency, mitigation and prevention, and payment-related loyalty point program administration); and
(6) The provision of investment-management services that manage or provide advice on investment portfolios or individual assets for compensation (such as devising strategies and handling financial assets and other investments for clients) or provide services ancillary to investment-management services (such as broker-dealers or futures commission merchants executing trades within an investment portfolio based upon instructions from an investment advisor).
(b)
Examples
—(1)
Example 1.
A U.S. company engages in a data transaction to transfer personal financial data in bulk to a financial institution that is incorporated in, located in, or subject to the jurisdiction or control of a country of concern to clear and settle electronic payment transactions between U.S. individuals and merchants in a country of concern where both the U.S. individuals and the merchants use the U.S. company's infrastructure, such as an e-commerce platform. Both the U.S. company's transaction transferring bulk personal financial data and the payment transactions by U.S. individuals are exempt transactions because they involve access by a covered person to bulk personal financial data, but are ordinarily incident to and part of a financial service.
(2)
Example 2.
As ordinarily incident to and part of securitizing and selling asset-backed obligations (such as mortgage and nonmortgage loans) to a covered person, a U.S. bank provides bulk U.S. sensitive personal data to the covered person. The data transfers are exempt transactions because they involve access by a covered person to bulk personal financial data, but are ordinarily incident to and part of a financial service.
(3)
Example 3.
A U.S. bank or other financial institution, as ordinarily incident to and part of facilitating payments to U.S. persons in a country of concern, stores and processes the customers' bulk financial data using a data center operated by a third-party service provider in the country of concern. The use of this third-party service provider is a vendor agreement because it involves access by a covered person to personal financial data, but it is an exempt transaction that is ordinarily incident to and part of facilitating international payment.
(4)
Example 4.
Same as Example 3, but the underlying payments are between U.S. persons in the United States and do not involve a country of concern. The use of this third-party service provider is a vendor agreement, but it is not an exempt transaction because it involves access by a covered person to bulk personal financial data and it is not ordinarily incident to facilitating this type of financial activity.
(5)
Example 5.
As part of operating an online marketplace for the purchase and sale of goods, a U.S. company, as ordinarily incident to and part of U.S. consumers' purchase of goods on that marketplace, transfers bulk contact information, payment information (
e.g.,
credit-card account number, expiration data, and security code), and delivery address to a merchant in a country of concern. The data transfers are exempt transactions because they involve access by a covered person to bulk personal financial data, but they are ordinarily incident to and part of U.S. consumers' purchase of goods.
(6)
Example 6.
A U.S. investment adviser purchases securities of a company incorporated in a country of concern for the accounts of its clients. The investment adviser engages a broker-dealer located in a country of concern to execute the trade, and, as ordinarily incident to and part of the transaction, transfers to the broker-dealer its clients' covered personal identifiers and financial account numbers in bulk. This provision of data is an exempt transaction because it involves access by a covered person to bulk personal financial data, but it is ordinarily incident to and part of the provision of investment-management services.
(7)
Example 7.
A U.S. company that provides payment-processing services sells bulk U.S. sensitive personal data to a covered person. This sale is prohibited data brokerage and is not an exempt transaction because it involves access by a covered person to bulk personal financial data and is not ordinarily incident to and part of the payment-processing services provided by the U.S. company.
(8)
Example 8.
A U.S. bank facilitates international funds transfers to foreign persons not related to a country of concern, but through intermediaries or locations subject to the jurisdiction or control of a country of concern. These transfers result in access to bulk financial records by some covered persons to complete the transfers and manage associated risks. Providing this access as part of these transfers is ordinarily incident to the provision of financial services and is exempt.
(9)
Example 9.
A U.S. insurance company underwrites personal insurance to U.S. persons residing in foreign countries in the same region as a country of concern. The insurance company relies on its own business infrastructure and personnel in the country of concern to support its financial activity in the region, which results in access to the bulk U.S. sensitive personal data of some U.S.-person customers residing in the region, to covered persons at the insurance company supporting these activities. Providing this access is ordinarily incident to the provision of financial services and is exempt.
(10)
Example 10.
A U.S. financial services provider operates a foreign branch in a country of concern and provides financial services to U.S. persons living within the country of concern. The financial services provider receives a lawful request from the regulator in the country of concern to review the financial activity conducted in the country, which includes providing access to the bulk U.S. sensitive personal data of U.S. persons resident in the country or U.S. persons conducting transactions through the foreign branch. The financial services provider is also subject to ongoing and routine reporting requirements from various regulators in the country of concern. Responding to the regulator's request, including providing access to this bulk U.S. sensitive personal data, is ordinarily incident to the provision of financial services and is exempt.
(11)
Example 11.
A U.S. bank voluntarily shares information, including relevant bulk U.S. sensitive personal data, with financial institutions organized under the laws of a country of concern for the purposes of, and consistent with industry practices for, fraud identification, combatting money laundering and terrorism financing, and U.S. sanctions compliance. Sharing this data for these purposes involves access by a covered person to bulk personal financial data, but is ordinarily incident to the provision of financial services and is exempt.
(12)
Example 12.
A U.S. company provides wealth-management services and collects bulk personal financial data on its U.S. clients. The U.S. company appoints a citizen of a country of concern, who is located in a country of concern, to its board of directors. In connection with the board's data security and cybersecurity responsibilities, the director could compel company personnel or influence company policies or practices to provide the director access to the underlying bulk personal financial data the company collects on its U.S. clients. The appointment of the director, who is a covered person, is a restricted employment agreement and is not exempt because the board member does not need to access, and in normal circumstances would not be able to access, the bulk financial data to perform his or her responsibilities. The board member's access to the bulk
personal financial data is not ordinarily incident to the U.S. company's provision of wealth-management services.
§ 202.506
Corporate group transactions.
(a) Subparts C, D, J, and K (other than § 202.1102 and § 202.1104) of this part do not apply to data transactions to the extent they are:
(1) Between a U.S. person and its subsidiary or affiliate located in (or otherwise subject to the ownership, direction, jurisdiction, or control of) a country of concern; and
(2) Ordinarily incident to and part of administrative or ancillary business operations, including:
(i) Human resources;
(ii) Payroll, expense monitoring and reimbursement, and other corporate financial activities;
(iii) Paying business taxes or fees;
(iv) Obtaining business permits or licenses;
(v) Sharing data with auditors and law firms for regulatory compliance;
(vi) Risk management;
(vii) Business-related travel;
(viii) Customer support;
(ix) Employee benefits; and
(x) Employees' internal and external communications.
(b)
Examples
—(1)
Example 1.
A U.S. company has a foreign subsidiary located in a country of concern, and the U.S. company's U.S.-person contractors perform services for the foreign subsidiary. As ordinarily incident to and part of the foreign subsidiary's payments to the U.S.-person contractors for those services, the U.S. company engages in a data transaction that gives the subsidiary access to the U.S.-person contractors' bulk personal financial data and covered personal identifiers. This is an exempt corporate group transaction.
(2)
Example 2.
A U.S. company aggregates bulk personal financial data. The U.S. company has a subsidiary that is a covered person because it is headquartered in a country of concern. The subsidiary is subject to the country of concern's national security laws requiring it to cooperate with and assist the country's intelligence services. The exemption for corporate group transactions would not apply to the U.S. parent's grant of a license to the subsidiary to access the parent's databases containing the bulk personal financial data for the purpose of complying with a request or order by the country of concern under those national security laws to provide access to that data because granting of such a license is not ordinarily incident to and part of administrative or ancillary business operations.
(3)
Example 3.
A U.S. company's affiliate operates a manufacturing facility in a country of concern for one of the U.S. company's products. The affiliate uses employee fingerprints as part of security and identity verification to control access to that facility. To facilitate its U.S. employees' access to that facility as part of their job responsibilities, the U.S. company provides the fingerprints of those employees in bulk to its affiliate. The transaction is an exempt corporate group transaction.
(4)
Example 4.
A U.S. company has a foreign subsidiary located in a country of concern that conducts research and development for the U.S. company. The U.S. company sends bulk personal financial data to the subsidiary for the purpose of developing a financial software tool. The transaction is not an exempt corporate group transaction because it is not ordinarily incident to and part of administrative or ancillary business operations.
(5)
Example 5.
Same as Example 4, but the U.S. company has a foreign branch located in a country of concern instead of a foreign subsidiary. Because the foreign branch is a U.S. person as part of the U.S. company, the transaction occurs within the same U.S. person and is not subject to the prohibitions or restrictions. If the foreign branch allows employees who are covered persons to access the bulk personal financial data to develop the financial software tool, the foreign branch has engaged in restricted transactions.
(6)
Example 6.
A U.S. financial services provider has a subsidiary located in a country of concern. Customers of the U.S. company conduct financial transactions in the country of concern, and customers of the foreign subsidiary conduct financial transactions in the
United States. To perform customer service functions related to these financial transactions, the foreign subsidiary accesses bulk U.S. sensitive personal data—specifically, personal financial data. The corporate group transactions exemption would apply to the foreign subsidiary's access to the personal financial data under these circumstances because it is ordinarily incident to and part of the provision of customer support. The foreign subsidiary's access to the personal financial data would also be covered by the financial services exemption.
§ 202.507
Transactions required or authorized by Federal law or international agreements, or necessary for compliance with Federal law.
(a)
Required or authorized by Federal law or international agreements.
Subparts C, D, J, and K (other than § 202.1102 and § 202.1104) of this part do not apply to data transactions to the extent they are required or authorized by Federal law or pursuant to an international agreement to which the United States is a party, including relevant provisions in the following:
(1) Annex 9 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation, International Civil Aviation Organization Doc. 7300 (2022);
(2) Section 2 of the Convention on Facilitation of International Maritime Traffic (1965);
(3) Articles 1, 12, 14, and 16 of the Postal Payment Services Agreement (2021);
(4) Articles 63, 64, and 65 of the Constitution of the World Health Organization (1946);
(5) Article 2 of the Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the People's Republic of China Regarding Mutual Assistance in Customs Matters (1999);
(6) Article 7 of the Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the People's Republic of China on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters (2000);
(7) Article 25 of the Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the People's Republic of China for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Tax Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income (1987);
(8) Article 2 of the Agreement Between the United States of America and the Macao Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China for Cooperation to Facilitate the Implementation of FATCA (2021);
(9) The Agreement between the Government of the United States and the Government of the People's Republic of China on Cooperation in Science and Technology (1979), as amended and extended;
(10) Articles II, III, VII of the Protocol to Extend and Amend the Agreement Between the Department of Health and Human Services of the United States of America and the National Health and Family Planning Commission of the People's Republic of China for Cooperation in the Science and Technology of Medicine and Public Health (2013);
(11) Article III of the Treaty Between the United States and Cuba for the Mutual Extradition of Fugitives from Justice (1905);
(12) Articles 3, 4, 5, 7 of the Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation and Mutual Assistance in Customs Matters (1994);
(13) Articles 1, 2, 5, 7, 13, and 16 of the Treaty Between the United States of America and the Russian Federation on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters (1999);
(14) Articles I, IV, IX, XV, and XVI of the Treaty Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of Venezuela on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters (1997); and
(15) Articles 5, 6, 7, 9, 11, 19, 35, and 45 of the International Health Regulations (2005).
(b)
Global health and pandemic preparedness.
Subparts C and D of this part do not apply to data transactions to the extent they are required or authorized by the following:
(1) The Pandemic Influenza Preparedness and Response Framework; and
(2) The Global Influenza Surveillance and Response System.
(c)
Compliance with Federal law.
Subparts C and D of this part do not apply to data transactions to the extent that they are ordinarily incident to and part of ensuring compliance with any Federal laws and regulations, including the Bank Secrecy Act, 12 U.S.C. 1829b, 1951 through 1960, 31 U.S.C. 310, 5311 through 5314, 5316 through 5336; the Securities Act of 1933, 15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.;
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.;
the Investment Company Act of 1940, 15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.;
the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, 15 U.S.C. 80b-1
et seq.;
the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, 50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.;
the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR 730
et seq.;
or any notes, guidance, orders, directives, or additional regulations related thereto.
(d)
Examples
—(1)
Example 1.
A U.S. bank or other financial institution engages in a covered data transaction with a covered person that is ordinarily incident to and part of ensuring compliance with U.S. laws and regulations (such as OFAC sanctions and anti-money laundering programs required by the Bank Secrecy Act). This is an exempt transaction.
(2) [Reserved]
§ 202.508
Investment agreements subject to a CFIUS action.
(a)
Exemption.
Subparts C, D, J, and K (other than § 202.1102 and § 202.1104) of this part do not apply to data transactions to the extent that they involve an investment agreement that is subject to a CFIUS action.
(b)
Examples
—(1)
Example 1.
A U.S. software provider is acquired in a CFIUS covered transaction by a foreign entity in which the transaction parties sign a mitigation agreement with CFIUS. The agreement has provisions governing the acquirer's ability to access the data of the U.S. software provider and their customers. The mitigation agreement contains a provision stating that it is a CFIUS action for purposes of this part. Before the effective date of the CFIUS mitigation agreement, the investment agreement is not subject to a CFIUS action and remains subject to these regulations to the extent otherwise applicable. Beginning on the effective date of the CFIUS mitigation agreement, the investment agreement is subject to a CFIUS action and exempt from this part.
(2)
Example 2.
Same as Example 1, but CFIUS issues an interim order before entering a mitigation agreement. The interim order states that it constitutes a CFIUS action for purposes of this part. Before the effective date of the interim order, the investment agreement is not subject to a CFIUS action and remains subject to these regulations to the extent otherwise applicable. Beginning on the effective date of the interim order, the investment agreement is subject to a CFIUS action and is exempt from this part. The mitigation agreement also states that it constitutes a CFIUS action for purposes of this part. After the effective date of the mitigation agreement, the investment agreement remains subject to a CFIUS action and is exempt from this part.
(3)
Example 3.
A U.S. biotechnology company is acquired by a foreign multinational corporation. CFIUS reviews this acquisition and concludes action without mitigation. This acquisition is not subject to a CFIUS action, and the acquisition remains subject to this part to the extent otherwise applicable.
(4)
Example 4.
A U.S. manufacturer is acquired by a foreign owner in which the transaction parties sign a mitigation agreement with CFIUS. The mitigation agreement provides for supply assurances and physical access restrictions but does not address data security, and it does not contain a provision explicitly designating that it is a CFIUS action. This acquisition is not subject to a CFIUS action, and the acquisition remains subject to this part to the extent otherwise applicable.
(5)
Example 5.
As a result of CFIUS's review and investigation of a U.S. human genomic company's acquisition by a foreign healthcare company, CFIUS refers the transaction to the President with a recommendation to require the foreign acquirer to divest its interest in the U.S. company. The President issues an order prohibiting the transaction and requiring divestment of the foreign healthcare company's interests and rights in the human genomic company. The presidential order itself does not constitute
a CFIUS action. Unless CFIUS takes action, such as by entering into an agreement or imposing conditions to address risk prior to completion of the divestment, the transaction remains subject to this part to the extent otherwise applicable for as long as the investment agreement remains in existence following the presidential order and prior to divestment.
(6)
Example 6.
A U.S. healthcare company and foreign acquirer announce a transaction that they believe will be subject to CFIUS jurisdiction and disclose that they intend to file a joint voluntary notice soon. No CFIUS action has occurred yet, and the transaction remains subject to this part to the extent otherwise applicable.
(7)
Example 7.
Same as Example 6, but the transaction parties file a joint voluntary notice with CFIUS. No CFIUS action has occurred yet, and the transaction remains subject to this part to the extent otherwise applicable.
(8)
Example 8.
Company A, a covered person, acquires 100% of the equity and voting interest of Company B, a U.S. business that maintains bulk U.S. sensitive personal data of U.S. persons. After completing the transaction, the parties fail to implement the security requirements and other conditions required under this part. Company A and Company B later submit a joint voluntary notice to CFIUS with respect to the transaction. Upon accepting the notice, CFIUS determines that the transaction is a covered transaction and takes measures to mitigate interim risk that may arise as a result of the transaction until such time that the Committee has completed action, pursuant to 50 U.S.C. 4565(l)(3)(A)(iii). The interim order states that it constitutes a CFIUS action for purposes of this part. Beginning on the effective date of these measures imposed by the interim order, the security requirements and other applicable conditions under this part no longer apply to the transaction. The Department of Justice, however, may take enforcement action under this part, in coordination with CFIUS, with respect to the violations that occurred before the effective date of the interim order issued by CFIUS.
(9)
Example 9.
Same as Example 8, but before engaging in the investment agreement for the acquisition, Company A and Company B submit the joint voluntary notice to CFIUS, CFIUS determines that the transaction is a CFIUS covered transaction, CFIUS identifies a risk related to data security arising from the transaction, and CFIUS negotiates and enters into a mitigation agreement with the parties to resolve that risk. The mitigation agreement contains a provision stating that it is a CFIUS action for purposes of this part. Because a CFIUS action has occurred before the parties engage in the investment agreement, the acquisition is exempt from this part.
(10)
Example 10.
Same as Example 8, but before engaging in the investment agreement for the acquisition, the parties implement the security requirements and other conditions required under these regulations. Company A and Company B then submit a joint voluntary notice to CFIUS, which determines that the transaction is a CFIUS covered transaction. CFIUS identifies a risk related to data security arising from the transaction but determines that the regulations in this part adequately resolve the risk. CFIUS concludes action with respect to the transaction without taking any CFIUS action. Because no CFIUS action has occurred, the transaction remains subject to this part.
(11)
Example 11.
Same facts as Example 10, but CFIUS determines that the security requirements and other conditions applicable under this part are inadequate to resolve the national security risk identified by CFIUS. CFIUS negotiates a mitigation agreement with the parties to resolve the risk, which contains a provision stating that it is a CFIUS action for purposes of this part. The transaction is exempt from this part beginning on the effective date of the CFIUS mitigation agreement.
§ 202.509
Telecommunications services.
(a)
Exemption.
Subparts C, D, J, and K (other than § 202.1102 and § 202.1104) of this part do not apply to data transactions, other than those involving data brokerage, to the extent that they
are ordinarily incident to and part of the provision of telecommunications services.
(b)
Examples
—(1)
Example 1.
A U.S. telecommunications service provider collects covered personal identifiers from its U.S. subscribers. Some of those subscribers travel to a country of concern and use their mobile phone service under an international roaming agreement. The local telecommunications service provider in the country of concern shares these covered personal identifiers with the U.S. service provider for the purposes of either helping provision service to the U.S. subscriber or receiving payment for the U.S. subscriber's use of the country of concern service provider's network under that international roaming agreement. The U.S. service provider provides the country of concern service provider with network or device information for the purpose of provisioning services and obtaining payment for its subscribers' use of the local telecommunications service provider's network. Over the course of 12 months, the volume of network or device information shared by the U.S. service provider with the country of concern service provider for the purpose of provisioning services exceeds the applicable bulk threshold. These transfers of bulk U.S. sensitive personal data are ordinarily incident to and part of the provision of telecommunications services and are thus exempt transactions.
(2)
Example 2.
A U.S. telecommunications service provider collects precise geolocation data on its U.S. subscribers. The U.S. telecommunications service provider sells this precise geolocation data in bulk to a covered person for the purpose of targeted advertising. This sale is not ordinarily incident to and part of the provision of telecommunications services and remains a prohibited transaction.
§ 202.510
Drug, biological product, and medical device authorizations.
(a)
Exemption.
Except as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, subparts C, D, J, and K (other than § 202.1102 and § 202.1104) of this part do not apply to a data transaction that
(1) Involves “regulatory approval data” as defined in paragraph (b) of this section and
(2) Is necessary to obtain or maintain regulatory authorization or approval to research or market a drug, biological product, device, or a combination product, provided that the U.S. person complies with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements set forth in §§ 202.1101(a) and 202.1102 with respect to such transaction.
(b)
Regulatory approval data.
For purposes of this section, the term
regulatory approval data
means sensitive personal data that is de-identified or pseudonymized consistent with the standards of 21 CFR 314.80 and that is required to be submitted to a regulatory entity, or is required by a regulatory entity to be submitted to a covered person, to obtain or maintain authorization or approval to research or market a drug, biological product, device, or combination product, including in relation to post-marketing studies and post-marketing product surveillance activities, and supplemental product applications for additional uses. The term excludes sensitive personal data not reasonably necessary for a regulatory entity to assess the safety and effectiveness of the drug, biological product, device, or combination product.
(c)
Other terms.
For purposes of this section, the terms “drug,” “biological product,” “device,” and “combination product” have the meanings given to them in 21 U.S.C. 321(g)(1), 42 U.S.C. 262(i)(1), 21 U.S.C. 321(h)(1), and 21 CFR 3.2(e), respectively.
(d)
Examples
—(1)
Example 1.
A U.S. pharmaceutical company seeks to market a new drug in a country of concern. The company submits a marketing application to the regulatory entity in the country of concern with authority to approve the drug in the country of concern. The marketing application includes the safety and effectiveness data reasonably necessary to obtain regulatory approval in that country. The transfer of data to the country of concern's regulatory entity is exempt from the prohibitions in this part.
(2)
Example 2.
Same as Example 1, except the regulatory entity in the country of concern requires that the data be
de-anonymized. The transfer of data is not exempt under this section, because the data includes sensitive personal data that is identified to an individual.
(3)
Example 3.
Same as Example 1, except country of concern law requires foreign pharmaceutical companies to submit regulatory approval data using (1) a registered agent who primarily resides in the country of concern, (2) a country of concern incorporated subsidiary, or (3) an employee located in a country of concern. The U.S. pharmaceutical company enters into a vendor agreement with a registered agent in the country of concern to submit the regulatory approval data to the country of concern regulator. The U.S. pharmaceutical company provides to the registered agent only the regulatory approval data the U.S. pharmaceutical company intends the registered agent to submit to the country of concern regulator. The transaction with the registered agent is exempt, because it is necessary to obtain approval to market the drug in a country of concern. The U.S. pharmaceutical company must comply with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements set forth in §§ 202.1101(a) and 202.1102 with respect to such transaction, however.
(4)
Example 4.
Same as Example 1, except the U.S. company enters a vendor agreement with a covered person located in the country of concern to store and organize the bulk U.S. sensitive personal data for eventual submission to the country of concern regulator. Country of concern law does not require foreign pharmaceutical companies to enter into such vendor agreements. The transaction is not exempt under this section, because the use of a covered person to store and organize the bulk U.S. sensitive personal data for the company's regulatory submission is not necessary to obtain regulatory approval.
(5)
Example 5.
A U.S. pharmaceutical company has obtained regulatory approval to market a new drug in a country of concern. The country of concern regulator requires the U.S. pharmaceutical company to submit de-identified sensitive personal data collected as part of the company's post-marketing product surveillance activities to assess the safety and efficacy of the drug to the country of concern regulator via a country of concern registered agent to maintain the U.S. pharmaceutical company's authorization to market the drug. Sharing the de-identified sensitive personal data with the country of concern regulator via the country of concern registered agent to maintain marketing authorization is exempt from the prohibitions and restrictions in subparts C and D of this part.
(6)
Example 6.
A U.S. medical device manufacturer provides de-identified bulk U.S. personal health data to a country of concern regulator to obtain authorization to research the safety and effectiveness of a medical device in the country of concern. Country of concern law requires medical device manufacturers to conduct such safety research to obtain regulatory approval to market a new device. The prohibitions and restrictions of subparts C and D of this part do not apply to the de-identified regulatory approval data submitted to the country of concern regulator to obtain authorization to research the device's safety and effectiveness.
§ 202.511
Other clinical investigations and post-marketing surveillance data.
(a)
Exemption.
Subparts C, D, J, and K (other than § 202.1102 and § 202.1104) of this part do not apply to data transactions to the extent that those transactions are:
(1) Ordinarily incident to and part of clinical investigations regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) under sections 505(i) and 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (“FD
C Act”) or clinical investigations that support applications to the FDA for research or marketing permits for drugs, biological products, devices, combination products, or infant formula; or
(2) Ordinarily incident to and part of the collection or processing of clinical care data indicating real-world performance or safety of products, or the collection or processing of post-marketing surveillance data (including pharmacovigilance and post-marketing safety monitoring), and necessary to support or maintain authorization by
the FDA, provided the data is de-identified or pseudonymized consistent with the standards of 21 CFR 314.80.
(b)
Other terms.
For purposes of this section, the terms “drug,” “biological product,” “device,” “combination product,” and “infant formula” have the meanings given to them in 21 U.S.C. 321(g)(1), 42 U.S.C. 262(i)(1), 21 U.S.C. 321(h)(1), 21 CFR 3.2(e), and 21 U.S.C. 321(z) respectively.

# Subpart F—Determination of Countries of Concern
§ 202.601
Determination of countries of concern.
(a)
Countries of concern.
Solely for purposes of the Order and this part, the Attorney General has determined, with the concurrence of the Secretaries of State and Commerce, that the following foreign governments have engaged in a long-term pattern or serious instances of conduct significantly adverse to the national security of the United States or security and safety of U.S. persons and pose a significant risk of exploiting government-related data or bulk U.S. sensitive personal data to the detriment of the national security of the United States or security and safety of U.S. persons:
(1) China;
(2) Cuba;
(3) Iran;
(4) North Korea;
(5) Russia; and
(6) Venezuela.
(b)
Effective date of amendments.
Any amendment to the list of countries of concern will apply to any covered data transaction that is initiated, pending, or completed on or after the effective date of the amendment.

# Subpart G—Covered Persons
§ 202.701
Designation of covered persons.
(a)
Designations.
The Attorney General may designate any person as a covered person for purposes of this part if, after consultation with the Department of State and any other agencies as the Attorney General deems appropriate, the Attorney General determines the person meets any of the criteria set forth in § 202.211(a)(5) of this part.
(b)
Information considered.
In determining whether to designate a person as a covered person, the Attorney General may consider any information or material the Attorney General deems relevant and appropriate, classified or unclassified, from any Federal department or agency or from any other source.
(c)
Covered Persons List.
The names of persons designated as a covered person for purposes of this part, transactions with whom are prohibited or restricted pursuant to this part, are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the National Security Division's Covered Persons List. The Covered Persons List is accessible through the following page on the National Security Division's website at
https://www.justice.gov/nsd
.
(d)
Non-exhaustive.
The list of designated covered persons described in this section is not exhaustive of all covered persons and supplements the categories in the definition of covered persons in § 202.211.
(e)
Effective date; actual and constructive knowledge.
(1) Designation as a covered person will be effective from the date of any public announcement by the Department. Except as otherwise authorized in this part, a U.S. person with actual knowledge of a designated person's status is prohibited from knowingly engaging in a covered data transaction with that person on or after the date of the Department's public announcement.
(2) Publication in the
Federal Register
is deemed to provide constructive knowledge of a person's status as a covered person.
§ 202.702
Procedures governing removal from the Covered Persons List.
(a)
Requests for removal from the Covered Persons List.
A person may petition to seek administrative reconsideration of their designation, or may assert that the circumstances resulting in the designation no longer apply, and thus seek to be removed from the Covered Persons List pursuant to the following administrative procedures:
(b)
Content of requests.
A covered person designated under paragraph (a) of this section may submit arguments or evidence that the person believes establish that insufficient basis exists for the designation. Such a person also may propose remedial steps on the person's part, such as corporate reorganization, resignation of persons from positions in a listed entity, or similar steps, that the person believes would negate the basis for designation.
(c)
Additional content; form and method of submission.
Requests for removal from the Covered Persons List must be submitted in accordance with this section and with subpart L of this part.
(d)
Requests for more information.
The information submitted by the listed person seeking removal will be reviewed by the Attorney General, who may request clarifying, corroborating, or other additional information.
(e)
Meetings.
A person seeking removal may request a meeting with the Attorney General; however, such meetings are not required, and the Attorney General may, in the Attorney General's discretion, decline to conduct such a meeting prior to completing a review pursuant to this section.
(f)
Decisions.
After the Attorney General has conducted a review of the request for removal, and after consultation with other agencies as the Attorney General deems appropriate, the Attorney General will provide a written decision to the person seeking removal. A covered person's status as a covered person—including its associated prohibitions and restrictions under this part—remains in effect during the pendency of any request to be removed from the Covered Persons List.

# Subpart H—Licensing
§ 202.801
General licenses.
(a)
General course of procedure.
The Department may, as appropriate, issue general licenses to authorize, under appropriate terms and conditions, transactions that are subject to the prohibitions or restrictions in this part. In determining whether to issue a general license, the Attorney General may consider any information or material the Attorney General deems relevant and appropriate, classified or unclassified, from any Federal department or agency or from any other source.
(b)
Relationship with specific licenses.
It is the policy of the Department not to grant applications for specific licenses authorizing transactions to which the provisions of a general license are applicable.
(c)
Reports.
Persons availing themselves of certain general licenses may be required to file reports and statements in accordance with the instructions specified in those licenses, this part or the Order. Failure to file timely all required information in such reports or statements may nullify the authorization otherwise provided by the general license and result in apparent violations of the applicable prohibitions that may be subject to enforcement action.
§ 202.802
Specific licenses.
(a)
General course of procedure.
Transactions subject to the prohibitions or restrictions in this part or the Order, and that are not otherwise permitted under this part or a general license, may be permitted only under a specific license, under appropriate terms and conditions.
(b)
Content of applications for specific licenses.
Applications for specific licenses shall include, at a minimum, a description of the nature of the transaction, including each of the following requirements:
(1) The types and volumes of government-related data or bulk U.S. sensitive personal data involved in the transactions;
(2) The identity of the transaction parties, including any ownership of entities or citizenship or primary residence of individuals;
(3) The end-use of the data and the method of data transfer; and
(4) Any other information that the Attorney General may require.
(c)
Additional content; form and method of submissions.
Requests for specific licenses must be submitted in accordance with this section and with subpart L of this part.
(d)
Additional conditions.
Applicants should submit only one copy of a specific license application to the Department; submitting multiple copies may result in processing delays. Any person
having an interest in a transaction or proposed transaction may file an application for a specific license authorizing such a transaction.
(e)
Further information to be supplied.
Applicants may be required to furnish such further information as the Department deems necessary to assist in making a determination. Any applicant or other party-in-interest desiring to present additional information concerning a specific license application may do so at any time before or after the Department makes its decision with respect to the application. In unique circumstances, the Department may determine, in its discretion, that an oral presentation regarding a license application would assist in the Department's review of the issues involved. Any requests to make such an oral presentation must be submitted electronically by emailing the National Security Division at
NSD.FIRS.datasecurity@usdoj.gov
or using another official method to make such requests, in accordance with any instructions on the National Security Division's website.
(f)
Decisions.
In determining whether to issue a specific license, the Attorney General may consider any information or material the Attorney General deems relevant and appropriate, classified or unclassified, from any Federal department or agency or from any other source. The Department will advise each applicant of the decision respecting the applicant's filed application. The Department's decision with respect to a license application shall constitute final agency action.
(g)
Time to issuance.
The Department shall endeavor to respond to any request for a specific license within 45 days after receipt of the request and of any requested additional information and documents.
(h)
Scope.
(1) Unless otherwise specified in the license, a specific license authorizes the transaction:
(i) Only between the parties identified in the license;
(ii) Only with respect to the data described in the license; and
(iii) Only to the extent the conditions specified in the license are satisfied. The applicant must inform any other parties identified in the license of the license's scope and of the specific conditions applicable to them.
(2) The Department will determine whether to grant specific licenses in reliance on representations the applicant made or submitted in connection with the license application, letters of explanation, and other documents submitted. Any license obtained based on a false or misleading representation in the license application, in any document submitted in connection with the license application, or during an oral presentation under this section shall be deemed void as of the date of issuance.
(i)
Reports under specific licenses.
As a condition for the issuance of any specific license, the licensee may be required to file reports or statements with respect to the transaction or transactions authorized by the specific license in such form and at such times as may be prescribed in the license. Failure to file timely all required information in such reports or statements may nullify the authorization otherwise provided by the specific license and result in apparent violations of the applicable prohibitions that may be subject to enforcement action.
(j)
Effect of denial.
The denial of a specific license does not preclude the reconsideration of an application or the filing of a further application. The applicant or any other party-in-interest may at any time request, by written correspondence, reconsideration of the denial of an application based on new facts or changed circumstances.
§ 202.803
General provisions.
(a)
Effect of license.
(1) No license issued under this subpart H, or otherwise issued by the Department, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided for in such license or authorization.
(2) No license issued under this subpart H authorizes or validates any transaction prohibited under or subject to this part unless the license is properly issued by the Department and specifically refers to this part.
(3) Any license authorizing or validating any transaction that is prohibited under or otherwise subject to this part has the effect of removing or
amending those prohibitions or other requirements from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by the terms of the license. Unless the license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(4) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or authorization from another department or agency of the United States Government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, issuance of a specific license authorizing a transaction otherwise prohibited by this part does not operate as a license or authorization to conclude the transaction that is otherwise required from the U.S. Department of Commerce, U.S. Department of State, U.S. Department of the Treasury, or any other department or agency of the United States Government.
(b)
Amendment, modification, or rescission.
Except as otherwise provided by law, any licenses (whether general or specific), authorizations, instructions, or forms issued thereunder may be amended, modified, or rescinded at any time.
(c)
Consultation.
The Department will issue, amend, modify, or rescind a general or specific license in concurrence with the Departments of State, Commerce, and Homeland Security and in consultation with other relevant agencies.
(d)
Exclusion from licenses and other authorizations.
The Attorney General reserves the right to exclude any person, property, or transaction from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. The Attorney General also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon all persons receiving actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

# Subpart I—Advisory Opinions
§ 202.901
Inquiries concerning application of this part.
(a)
General.
Any U.S. person party to a transaction potentially regulated under the Order and this part, or an agent of the party to such a transaction on the party's behalf, may request from the Attorney General a statement of the present enforcement intentions of the Department of Justice under the Order with respect to that transaction that may be subject to the prohibitions or restrictions in the Order and this part (“advisory opinion”).
(b)
Anonymous, hypothetical, non-party and ex post facto review requests excluded.
The entire transaction that is the subject of the advisory opinion request must be an actual, as opposed to hypothetical, transaction and involve disclosed, as opposed to anonymous, parties to the transaction. Advisory opinion requests must be submitted by a U.S. person party to the transaction or that party's agent and have no application to a party that does not join the request. The transaction need not involve only prospective conduct, but an advisory opinion request will not be considered unless that portion of the transaction for which an opinion is sought involves only prospective conduct.
(c)
Contents.
Each advisory opinion request shall be specific and must be accompanied by all material information bearing on the conduct for which an advisory opinion is requested, and on the circumstances of the prospective conduct, including background information, complete copies of any and all operative documents, and detailed statements of all collateral or oral understandings, if any. Each request must include, at a minimum:
(1) The identities of the transaction parties, including any ownership of entities or citizenship or primary residence of individuals;
(2) A description of the nature of the transaction, including the types and volumes of government-related data or bulk U.S. sensitive personal data involved in the transaction, the end-use
of the data, the method of data transfer, and any restrictions or requirements related to a party's right or ability to control, access, disseminate, or dispose of the data; and
(3) Any potential basis for exempting or excluding the transaction from the prohibitions or restrictions imposed in the Order and this part.
(d)
Additional contents; format and method of submissions.
Requests for advisory opinions must be submitted in accordance with this section and with subpart L of this part.
(e)
Further information to be supplied.
Each party shall provide any additional information or documents that the Department of Justice may thereafter request in its review of the matter. Any information furnished orally shall be confirmed promptly in writing; signed by or on behalf of the party that submitted the initial review request; and certified to be a true, correct, and complete disclosure of the requested information. A request will not be deemed complete until the Department of Justice receives such additional information. In connection with an advisory opinion request, the Department of Justice may conduct any independent investigation it believes appropriate.
(f)
Outcomes.
After submission of an advisory opinion request, the Department, in its discretion, may state its present enforcement intention under the Order and this part with respect to the proposed conduct; may decline to state its present enforcement intention; or, if circumstances warrant, may take such other position or initiate such other action as it considers appropriate. Any requesting party or parties may withdraw a request at any time prior to issuance of an advisory opinion. The Department remains free, however, to submit such comments to the requesting party or parties as it deems appropriate. Failure to take action after receipt of a request, documents, or information, whether submitted pursuant to this procedure or otherwise, shall not in any way limit or stop the Department from taking any action at such time thereafter as it deems appropriate. The Department reserves the right to retain any advisory opinion request, document, or information submitted to it under this procedure or otherwise, to disclose any advisory opinion and advisory opinion request, including the identities of the requesting party and foreign parties to the transaction, the general nature and circumstances of the proposed conduct, and the action of the Department in response to any advisory opinion request, consistent with applicable law, and to use any such request, document, or information for any governmental purpose.
(g)
Time for response.
The Department shall endeavor to respond to any advisory opinion request within 30 days after receipt of the request and of any requested additional information and documents.
(h)
Written decisions only.
The requesting party or parties may rely only upon a written advisory opinion signed by the Attorney General.
(i)
Effect of advisory opinion.
Each advisory opinion can be relied upon by the requesting party or parties to the extent the disclosures made pursuant to this subpart I were accurate and complete and to the extent the disclosures continue accurately and completely to reflect circumstances after the date of the issuance of the advisory opinion. An advisory opinion will not restrict enforcement actions by any agency other than the Department of Justice. It will not affect a requesting party's obligations to any other agency or under any statutory or regulatory provision other than those specifically discussed in the advisory opinion.
(j)
Amendment or revocation of advisory opinion.
An advisory opinion may be amended or revoked at any time after it has been issued. Notice of such will be given in the same manner as notice of the advisory opinion was originally given or in the
Federal Register.
Whenever possible, a notice of amendment or revocation will state when the Department will consider a party's reliance on the superseded advisory opinion to be unreasonable, and any transition period that may be applicable.
(k)
Compliance.
Neither the submission of an advisory opinion request, nor its pendency, shall in any way alter the responsibility or obligation of a requesting party to comply with the
Order, this part, or any other applicable law.

# Subpart J—Due Diligence and Audit Requirements
§ 202.1001
Due diligence for restricted transactions.
(a)
Data compliance program.
By no later than October 6, 2025, U.S. persons engaging in any restricted transactions shall develop and implement a data compliance program.
(b)
Requirements.
The data compliance program shall include, at a minimum, each of the following requirements:
(1) Risk-based procedures for verifying data flows involved in any restricted transaction, including procedures to verify and log, in an auditable manner, the following:
(i) The types and volumes of government-related data or bulk U.S. sensitive personal data involved in the transaction;
(ii) The identity of the transaction parties, including any ownership of entities or citizenship or primary residence of individuals; and
(iii) The end-use of the data and the method of data transfer;
(2) For restricted transactions that involve vendors, risk-based procedures for verifying the identity of vendors;
(3) A written policy that describes the data compliance program and that is annually certified by an officer, executive, or other employee responsible for compliance;
(4) A written policy that describes the implementation of the security requirements as defined in § 202.248 and that is annually certified by an officer, executive, or other employee responsible for compliance; and
(5) Any other information that the Attorney General may require.
§ 202.1002
Audits for restricted transactions.
(a)
Audit required.
U.S. persons that, on or after October 6, 2025, engage in any restricted transactions under § 202.401 shall conduct an audit that complies with the requirements of this section.
(b)
Who may conduct the audit.
The auditor:
(1) Must be qualified and competent to examine, verify, and attest to the U.S. person's compliance with and the effectiveness of the security requirements, as defined in § 202.248, and all other applicable requirements, as defined in § 202.401, implemented for restricted transactions;
(2) Must be independent; and
(3) Cannot be a covered person or a country of concern.
(c)
When required.
The audit must be performed once for each calendar year in which the U.S. person engages in any restricted transactions.
(d)
Timeframe.
The audit must cover the preceding 12 months.
(e)
Scope.
The audit must:
(1) Examine the U.S. person's restricted transactions;
(2) Examine the U.S. person's data compliance program required under § 202.1001 and its implementation;
(3) Examine relevant records required under § 202.1101;
(4) Examine the U.S. person's security requirements, as defined by § 202.248; and
(5) Use a reliable methodology to conduct the audit.
(f)
Report.
(1) The auditor must prepare and submit a written report to the U.S. person within 60 days of the completion of the audit.
(2) The audit report must:
(i) Describe the nature of any restricted transactions engaged in by the U.S. person;
(ii) Describe the methodology undertaken, including the relevant policies and other documents reviewed, relevant personnel interviewed, and any relevant facilities, equipment, networks, or systems examined;
(iii) Describe the effectiveness of the U.S. person's data compliance program and its implementation;
(iv) Describe any vulnerabilities or deficiencies in the implementation of the security requirements that have affected or could affect the risk of access to government-related data or bulk U.S. sensitive personal data by a country of concern or covered person;
(v) Describe any instances in which the security requirements failed or
were otherwise not effective in mitigating the risk of access to government-related data or bulk U.S. sensitive personal data by a country of concern or covered person; and
(vi) Recommend any improvements or changes to policies, practices, or other aspects of the U.S. person's business to ensure compliance with the security requirements.
(3) U.S. persons engaged in restricted transactions must retain the audit report for a period of at least 10 years, consistent with the recordkeeping requirements in § 202.1101.

# Subpart K—Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements
§ 202.1101
Records and recordkeeping requirements.
(a)
Records.
Except as otherwise provided, U.S. persons engaging in any transaction subject to the provisions of this part shall keep a full and accurate record of each such transaction engaged in, and such record shall be available for examination for at least 10 years after the date of such transaction.
(b)
Additional recordkeeping requirements.
U.S. persons engaging in any restricted transaction shall create and maintain, at a minimum, the following records in an auditable manner:
(1) A written policy that describes the data compliance program and that is certified annually by an officer, executive, or other employee responsible for compliance;
(2) A written policy that describes the implementation of any applicable security requirements as defined in § 202.248 and that is certified annually by an officer, executive, or other employee responsible for compliance;
(3) The results of any annual audits that verify the U.S. person's compliance with the security requirements and any conditions on a license;
(4) Documentation of the due diligence conducted to verify the data flow involved in any restricted transaction, including:
(i) The types and volumes of government-related data or bulk U.S. sensitive personal data involved in the transaction;
(ii) The identity of the transaction parties, including any direct and indirect ownership of entities or citizenship or primary residence of individuals; and
(iii) A description of the end-use of the data;
(5) Documentation of the method of data transfer;
(6) Documentation of the dates the transaction began and ended;
(7) Copies of any agreements associated with the transaction;
(8) Copies of any relevant licenses or advisory opinions;
(9) The document reference number for any original document issued by the Attorney General, such as a license or advisory opinion;
(10) A copy of any relevant documentation received or created in connection with the transaction; and
(11) An annual certification by an officer, executive, or other employee responsible for compliance of the completeness and accuracy of the records documenting due diligence.
§ 202.1102
Reports to be furnished on demand.
(a)
Reports.
Every person is required to furnish under oath, in the form of reports or otherwise, from time to time and at any time as may be required by the Department of Justice, complete information relative to any act or transaction or covered data transaction, regardless of whether such act, transaction, or covered data transaction is effected pursuant to a license or otherwise, subject to the provisions of this part and except as otherwise prohibited by Federal law. The Department of Justice may require that such reports include the production of any books, contracts, letters, papers, or other hard copy or electronic documents relating to any such act, transaction, or covered data transaction, in the custody or control of the persons required to make such reports. Reports may be required either before, during, or after such acts, transactions, or covered data transactions. The Department of Justice may, through any person or agency, conduct investigations, hold hearings, administer oaths, examine witnesses, receive evidence, take depositions, and require by subpoena
the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of any books, contracts, letters, papers, and other hard copy or electronic documents relating to any matter under investigation, regardless of whether any report has been required or filed in connection therewith.
(b)
Definition of the term “document.
” For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the term
document
includes any written, recorded, or graphic matter or other means of preserving thought or expression (including in electronic format), and all tangible things stored in any medium from which information can be processed, transcribed, or obtained directly or indirectly, including correspondence, memoranda, notes, messages, contemporaneous communications such as text and instant messages, letters, emails, spreadsheets, metadata, contracts, bulletins, diaries, chronological data, minutes, books, reports, examinations, charts, ledgers, books of account, invoices, air waybills, bills of lading, worksheets, receipts, printouts, papers, schedules, affidavits, presentations, transcripts, surveys, graphic representations of any kind, drawings, photographs, graphs, video or sound recordings, and motion pictures or other film.
(c)
Format.
Persons providing documents to the Department of Justice pursuant to this section must produce documents in a usable format agreed upon by the Department of Justice. For guidance, see the Department of Justice's data delivery standards available on the National Security Division's website at
https://www.justice.gov/nsd.
§ 202.1103
Annual reports.
(a)
Who must report.
An annual report must be filed, except as otherwise prohibited by Federal law, by any U.S. person that, on or after October 6, 2025, is engaged in a restricted transaction involving cloud-computing services, and that has 25% or more of the U.S. person's equity interests owned (directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship, or otherwise) by a country of concern or covered person.
(b)
Primary responsibility to report.
A report may be filed on behalf of a U.S. person engaging in the data transaction described in § 202.1103(a) by an attorney, agent, or other person. Primary responsibility for reporting, however, rests with the actual U.S. person engaging in the data transaction. No U.S. person is excused from filing a report by reason of the fact that another U.S. person has submitted a report with regard to the same data transaction, except where the U.S. person has actual knowledge that the other U.S. person filed the report.
(c)
When reports are due.
A report on the data transactions described in § 202.1103(a) engaged in as of December 31 of the previous year shall be filed annually by March 1 of the subsequent year.
(d)
Contents of reports.
Annual reports on the data transactions described in § 202.1103(a) shall include the following:
(1) The name and address of the U.S. person engaging in the covered data transaction, and the name, telephone number, and email address of a contact from whom additional information may be obtained;
(2) A description of the covered data transaction, including:
(i) The date of the transaction;
(ii) The types and volumes of government-related data or bulk U.S. sensitive personal data involved in the transaction;
(iii) The method of data transfer; and
(iv) Any persons participating in the data transaction and their respective locations, including the name and location of each data recipient, the ownership of entities or citizenship or primary residence of individuals, the name and location of any covered persons involved in the transaction, and the name of any countries of concern involved in the transaction;
(3) A copy of any relevant documentation received or created in connection with the transaction; and
(4) Any other information that the Department of Justice may require.
(e)
Additional contents; format and method of submission.
Reports required by this section must be submitted in accordance with this section and with subpart L of this part.
§ 202.1104
Reports on rejected prohibited transactions.
(a)
Who must report.
A report must be filed, except as otherwise prohibited by Federal law, by any U.S. person that, on or after October 6, 2025, has received and affirmatively rejected (including automatically rejected using software, technology, or automated tools) an offer from another person to engage in a prohibited transaction involving data brokerage.
(b)
When reports are due.
U.S. persons shall file reports within 14 days of rejecting a transaction prohibited by this part.
(c)
Contents of reports.
Reports on rejected transactions shall include the following, to the extent known and available to the person filing the report at the time the transaction is rejected:
(1) The name and address of the U.S. person that rejected the prohibited transaction, and the name, telephone number, and email address of a contact from whom additional information may be obtained;
(2) A description of the rejected transaction, including:
(i) The date the transaction was rejected;
(ii) The types and volumes of government-related data or bulk U.S. sensitive personal data involved in the transaction;
(iii) The method of data transfer;
(iv) Any persons attempting to participate in the transaction and their respective locations, including the name and location of each data recipient, the ownership of entities or citizenship or primary residence of individuals, the name and location of any covered persons involved in the transaction, and the name of any countries of concern involved in the transaction;
(v) A copy of any relevant documentation received or created in connection with the transaction; and
(vi) Any other information that the Department of Justice may require.
(d)
Additional contents; format and method of submission.
Reports required by this section must be submitted in accordance with this section and with subpart L of this part.

# Subpart L—Submitting Applications, Requests, Reports, and Responses
§ 202.1201
Procedures.
(a)
Application of this subpart.
This subpart L applies to any submissions required or permitted by this part, including reports of known or suspected violations submitted pursuant to § 202.302, requests for removal from the Covered Persons List submitted pursuant to subpart G of this part, requests for specific licenses submitted pursuant to § 202.802, advisory opinion requests submitted pursuant to subpart I of this part, annual reports submitted pursuant to § 202.1103, reports on rejected prohibited transactions submitted pursuant to § 202.1104, and responses to pre-penalty notices and findings of violations submitted pursuant to § 202.1306 (collectively, “submissions”).
(b)
Form of submissions.
Submissions must follow the instructions in this part and any instructions on the National Security Division's website. With the exception of responses to pre-penalty notices or findings of violations submitted pursuant to subpart M of this part, submissions must use the forms on the National Security Division's website or another official reporting option as specified by the National Security Division.
(c)
Method of submissions.
Submissions must be made to the National Security Division electronically by emailing the National Security Division at
NSD.FIRS.datasecurity@usdoj.gov
or using another official electronic reporting option, in accordance with any instructions on the National Security Division's website.
(d)
Certification.
If the submitting party is an individual, the submission must be signed by the individual or the individual's attorney. If the submitting party is not an individual, the submission must be signed on behalf of each submitting party by an officer, director, a person performing the functions of an officer or a director of, or an attorney for, the submitting party. Annual reports submitted pursuant to § 202.1103, and reports on rejected transactions submitted pursuant to
§ 202.1104, must be signed by an officer, a director, a person performing the functions of an officer or a director, or an employee responsible for compliance. In appropriate cases, the Department of Justice may require the chief executive officer of a requesting party to sign the request. Each such person signing a submission must certify that the submission is true, accurate, and complete.

# Subpart M—Penalties and Finding of Violation
§ 202.1301
Penalties for violations.
(a)
Civil and criminal penalties.
Section 206 of IEEPA, 50 U.S.C. 1705, is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Attorney General pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) IEEPA provides for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed the greater of $368,136 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, may be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b)
Adjustment of civil penalties.
The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(c)
Adjustment of criminal penalties.
The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(d)
False statements.
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(e)
Other applicable laws.
Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
§ 202.1302
Process for pre-penalty notice.
(a)
When and how issued.
(1) If the Department of Justice has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Attorney General pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, the Department of Justice will issue a pre-penalty notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty.
(2) The pre-penalty notice shall be in writing.
(3) The pre-penalty notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter.
(4) The Department shall provide the alleged violator with the relevant information that is not privileged, classified, or otherwise protected, and that forms the basis for the pre-penalty notice, including a description of the alleged violation and proposed penalty amount.
(b)
Opportunity to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a pre-penalty notice in accordance with § 202.1306.
(c)
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by the Department of
Justice, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative.
(d)
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with the Department of Justice prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the pre-penalty notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the pre-penalty notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
§ 202.1303
Penalty imposition.
If, after considering any written response to the pre-penalty notice and any relevant facts, the Department of Justice determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the pre-penalty notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, the Department of Justice may issue a penalty notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. The Department shall provide the violator with any relevant, non-classified information that forms the basis of the penalty. The issuance of the penalty notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
§ 202.1304
Administrative collection and litigation.
In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to the Department of Justice, the Department of Justice may refer the matter to the Department of the Treasury for administrative collection measures or take appropriate action to recover the penalty in any civil suit in Federal district court.
§ 202.1305
Finding of violation.
(a)
When and how issued.
(1) The Department of Justice may issue an initial finding of violation that identifies a violation if the Department of Justice:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Attorney General pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA;
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and
(iii) Concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial finding of violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter.
(3) The Department shall provide the alleged violator with the relevant information that is not privileged, classified, or otherwise protected, that forms the basis for the finding of violation, including a description of the alleged violation.
(b)
Opportunity to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial finding of violation in accordance with § 202.1306.
(c)
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a finding of violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, the Department of Justice determines that a final finding of violation should be issued, the Department of Justice will issue a final finding of violation that will inform the violator of its decision. The Department shall provide the violator with the relevant information that is not privileged, classified, or otherwise protected, that forms the basis for the finding of violation. A final finding of violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
(2)
Determination that a finding of violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, the Department of Justice determines a finding of violation is not warranted, then the Department of Justice will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final finding of violation. A determination by the Department of Justice that a final finding of violation is not warranted does not preclude the Department of Justice from pursuing other enforcement actions.
(d)
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with the Department of Justice prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial finding of violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial finding of violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
§ 202.1306
Opportunity to respond to a pre-penalty notice or finding of violation.
(a)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a pre-penalty notice or finding of violation by making a written presentation to the Department of Justice.
(b)
Deadline for response.
A response to a pre-penalty notice or finding of violation must be electronically submitted within 30 days of electronic service of the notice or finding. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(c)
Extensions of time for response.
Any extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of the Department of Justice, only upon specific request to the Department of Justice.
(d)
Contents of response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur or why a finding of violation or penalty is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. The Department of Justice will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.

# Subpart N—Government-Related Location Data List
§ 202.1401
Government-Related Location Data List.
For each Area ID listed in this section, each of the latitude/longitude coordinate pairs forms a corner of the geofenced area.
Table 1 to § 202.1401
Area ID
Latitude/longitude coordinates of geofenced areas
1
38.935624, −77.207888
38.931674, −77.199387
38.929289, −77.203229
38.932939, −77.209328.
2
38.950446, −77.125592
38.952077, −77.120947
38.947468, −77.120060
38.947135, −77.122809.
3
38.953191, −77.372792
38.953174, −77.369764
38.951148, −77.369759
38.951152, −77.372781.
4
39.113546, −76.777053
39.131086, −76.758527
39.100086, −76.749715
39.093304, −76.760882.
5
33.416299, −82.172772
33.416666, −82.164366
33.406350, −82.163645
33.406261, −82.172947.
6
21.525093, −158.019139
21.525362, −158.002575
21.518161, −158.002233
21.518010, −158.018364.
7
21.475012, −158.061844
21.483357, −158.057568
21.479226, −158.049881
21.472695, −158.052371.
8
29.449322, −98.646174
29.452872, −98.637623
29.448069, −98.637303
29.444547, −98.640607.
9
39.273162771, −76.362684384
39.508996774, −76.362684384
39.508996774, −76.049235582
39.273162771, −76.049235582.
10
39.0258436940001, −76.9680962199999
39.0402111820001, −76.9680962199999
39.0402111820001, −76.9506770369999
39.0258436940001, −76.9506770369999.
11
20.7457155230001, −156.440726997
20.7494410490001, −156.440726997
20.7494410490001, −156.431116699
20.7457155230001, −156.431116699.
12
38.8805363480001, −77.1090209989999
38.8811994730001, −77.1090209989999
38.8811994730001, −77.1082027119999
38.8805363480001, −77.1082027119999.
13
32.765632877, −97.460085871
32.786292692, −97.460085871
32.786292692, −97.445002478
32.765632877, −97.445002478.
14
34.602177924, −118.126219217
34.652496869, −118.126219217
34.652496869, −118.040871203
34.602177924, −118.040871203.
15
32.0905440820001, −110.959444035
32.1053229630001, −110.959444035
32.1053229630001, −110.922377001
32.0905440820001, −110.922377001.
16
33.8999448750001, −84.540445929
33.9364828150001, −84.540445929
33.9364828150001, −84.511508719
33.8999448750001, −84.511508719.
17
36.6657671500001, −76.163567934
36.7187899800001, −76.163567934
36.7187899800001, −76.098012048
36.6657671500001, −76.098012048.
18
27.8761052880001, −98.061583281
27.9157840450001, −98.061583281
27.9157840450001, −98.0214386
27.8761052880001, −98.0214386.
19
21.3545686960001, −157.926772605
21.3700858780001, −157.926772605
21.3700858780001, −157.89962502
21.3545686960001, −157.89962502.
20
39.529701323, −78.871120656
39.566862548, −78.871120656
39.566862548, −78.819110448
39.529701323, −78.819110448.
21
31.227908115, −85.654625655
31.235020282, −85.654625655
31.235020282, −85.646160343
31.227908115, −85.646160343.
22
45.0576284000001, −83.5785134019999
45.0972929400001, −83.5785134019999
45.0972929400001, −83.5582903029999
45.0576284000001, −83.5582903029999.
23
34.6379009080001, −99.303633301
34.6889874940001, −99.303633301
34.6889874940001, −99.25506291
34.6379009080001, −99.25506291.
24
32.6375106470001, −117.168353987
32.6816990190001, −117.168353987
32.6816990190001, −117.138279193
32.6375106470001, −117.138279193.
25
32.666935251, −117.172352209
32.675675627, −117.172352209
32.675675627, −117.163035197
32.666935251, −117.163035197.
26
13.5479750120001, 144.840656045
13.6479224930001, 144.840656045
13.6479224930001, 144.956626971
13.5479750120001, 144.956626971.
27
33.610199773, −86.013461889
33.688770568, −86.013461889
33.688770568, −85.910594886
33.610199773, −85.910594886.
28
27.6372285040001, −81.364060357
27.6776476600001, −81.364060357
27.6776476600001, −81.326061341
27.6372285040001, −81.326061341.
29
38.869169115, −77.079135005
38.887908934, −77.079135005
38.887908934, −77.058113411
38.869169115, −77.058113411.
30
38.865964869, −77.081320445
38.869010908, −77.081320445
38.869010908, −77.07688713
38.865964869, −77.07688713.
31
30.268965988, −97.74101039
30.26898402, −97.74101039
30.26898402, −97.74098961
30.268965988, −97.74098961.
32
28.585892605, −81.197868843
28.58638835, −81.197868843
28.58638835, −81.197094434
28.585892605, −81.197094434.
33
35.9939351130001, −78.8988567119999
35.9939531280001, −78.8988567119999
35.9939531280001, −78.8988345369999
35.9939351130001, −78.8988345369999.
34
35.290658975, −86.1900228969999
35.448152643, −86.1900228969999
35.448152643, −85.9565678559999
35.290658975, −85.9565678559999.
35
39.668741192, −74.486379079
39.735566472, −74.486379079
39.735566472, −74.38985998
39.668741192, −74.38985998.
36
27.5433418430001, −81.440651203
27.7481014920001, −81.440651203
27.7481014920001, −81.140127987
27.5433418430001, −81.140127987.
37
43.329662741, −89.768817729
43.3804415840001, −89.768817729
43.3804415840001, −89.704814972
43.329662741, −89.704814972.
38
32.7213462890001, −117.147436521
32.7304327800001, −117.147436521
32.7304327800001, −117.142819245
32.7213462890001, −117.142819245.
39
44.810736596, −68.845190583
44.824436067, −68.845190583
44.824436067, −68.817759555
44.810736596, −68.817759555.
40
30.378935891, −87.651017989
30.406043932, −87.651017989
30.406043932, −87.616693181
30.378935891, −87.616693181.
41
32.460689648, −93.692932035
32.533707929, −93.692932035
32.533707929, −93.531044113
32.460689648, −93.531044113.
42
42.1637746650001, −72.721474954
42.1737587120001, −72.721474954
42.1737587120001, −72.713127559
42.1637746650001, −72.713127559.
43
32.234848137, −114.563241999
32.74030585, −114.563241999
32.74030585, −113.597922719
32.234848137, −113.597922719.
44
32.8717587680001, −112.742209944
32.9055316810001, −112.742209944
32.9055316810001, −112.715649106
32.8717587680001, −112.715649106.
45
70.118081036, −143.649422567
70.13677672, −143.649422567
70.13677672, −143.549196508
70.118081036, −143.549196508.
46
39.0718274430001, −121.477278056
39.1737524000001, −121.477278056
39.1737524000001, −121.321123307
39.0718274430001, −121.321123307.
47
21.3446919420001, −157.715961149
21.3801950850001, −157.715961149
21.3801950850001, −157.704152283
21.3446919420001, −157.704152283.
48
39.320337941, −80.27238984
39.332562421, −80.27238984
39.332562421, −80.257518209
39.320337941, −80.257518209.
49
64.3151851490001, −146.65232338
64.3202659380001, −146.65232338
64.3202659380001, −146.642748991
64.3151851490001, −146.642748991.
50
33.564586567, −86.7593074919999
33.577571506, −86.7593074919999
33.577571506, −86.749335831
33.564586567, −86.749335831.
51
33.979025715, −77.920042096
33.98353888, −77.920042096
33.98353888, −77.911945012
33.979025715, −77.911945012.
52
37.6569067660001, −84.2697493539999
37.7403075720001, −84.2697493539999
37.7403075720001, −84.1739063399999
37.6569067660001, −84.1739063399999.
53
43.549701982, −116.23995646
43.565222364, −116.23995646
43.565222364, −116.203444555
43.549701982, −116.203444555.
54
41.928394165, −72.706470888
41.940084218, −72.706470888
41.940084218, −72.6950519379999
41.928394165, −72.6950519379999.
55
41.5399982100001, −81.628180911
41.5451316070001, −81.628180911
41.5451316070001, −81.623066892
41.5399982100001, −81.623066892.
56
38.259480861, −119.65128069
38.488443466, −119.65128069
38.488443466, −119.46086144
38.259480861, −119.46086144.
57
32.7116821270001, −117.172842204
32.7155456210001, −117.172842204
32.7155456210001, −117.171235129
32.7116821270001, −117.171235129.
58
40.5796208020001, −73.881158344
40.5851822330001, −73.881158344
40.5851822330001, −73.875044844
40.5796208020001, −73.875044844.
59
31.3815422060001, −85.978073125
31.3912525150001, −85.978073125
31.3912525150001, −85.96646119
31.3815422060001, −85.96646119.
60
39.6792307960001, −104.791155246
39.7256386980001, −104.791155246
39.7256386980001, −104.732681808
39.6792307960001, −104.732681808.
61
44.465375824, −73.165872108
44.481431105, −73.165872108
44.481431105, −73.138589437
44.465375824, −73.138589437.
62
18.246447926, −65.580288041
18.250653732, −65.580288041
18.250653732, −65.57513189
18.246447926, −65.57513189.
63
31.2653802660001, −85.730112602
31.2900770820001, −85.730112602
31.2900770820001, −85.701272345
31.2653802660001, −85.701272345.
64
13.488847714, 144.8237902
13.650804937, 144.8237902
13.650804937, 144.882806074
13.488847714, 144.882806074.
65
41.613354353, −93.9831494479999
42.134619451, −93.9831494479999
42.134619451, −93.625230214
41.613354353, −93.625230214.
66
34.6199016640001, −84.1105367119999
34.6357614130001, −84.1105367119999
34.6357614130001, −84.0950752379999
34.6199016640001, −84.0950752379999.
67
44.5103232180001, −85.0727276169999
44.8976058610001, −85.0727276169999
44.8976058610001, −84.4513643499999
44.5103232180001, −84.4513643499999.
68
35.0011406840001, −79.523939868
35.0683094360001, −79.523939868
35.0683094360001, −79.442653881
35.0011406840001, −79.442653881.
69
32.641816556, −116.466773316
32.70380767, −116.466773316
32.70380767, −116.419479903
32.641816556, −116.419479903.
70
32.707519441, −116.520980841
32.714794633, −116.520980841
32.714794633, −116.509578866
32.707519441, −116.509578866.
71
35.1488975340001, −111.913136629
35.2519317510001, −111.913136629
35.2519317510001, −111.772220092
35.1488975340001, −111.772220092.
72
35.688234999, −120.85951023
35.893098334, −120.85951023
35.893098334, −120.711509738
35.688234999, −120.711509738.
73
30.91049165, −89.245591473
31.215207751, −89.245591473
31.215207751, −88.825853545
30.91049165, −88.825853545.
74
40.3878151230001, −112.116737638
40.4646164020001, −112.116737638
40.4646164020001, −111.91331559
40.3878151230001, −111.91331559.
75
34.40563345, −103.337070541
34.412489823, −103.337070541
34.412489823, −103.319797859
34.40563345, −103.319797859.
76
34.3614483640001, −103.354726446
34.4053770780001, −103.354726446
34.4053770780001, −103.295530382
34.3614483640001, −103.295530382.
77
28.410293461, −80.611521457
28.569239286, −80.611521457
28.569239286, −80.525040895
28.410293461, −80.525040895.
78
58.6207566940001, −162.088477025
58.6671382160001, −162.088477025
58.6671382160001, −162.051955173
58.6207566940001, −162.051955173.
79
39.843911672, −89.673153301
39.853707959, −89.673153301
39.853707959, −89.664434939
39.843911672, −89.664434939.
80
40.1998354450001, −77.1813079679999
40.2155193840001, −77.1813079679999
40.2155193840001, −77.1567188819999
40.1998354450001, −77.1567188819999.
81
48.720965666, −97.91415126
48.732224729, −97.91415126
48.732224729, −97.892530954
48.720965666, −97.892530954.
82
30.3692267820001, −89.145003244
30.3839136300001, −89.145003244
30.3839136300001, −89.1029689419999
30.3692267820001, −89.1029689419999.
83
34.133132274, −119.113804625
34.1468546850001, −119.113804625
34.1468546850001, −119.107499465
34.133132274, −119.107499465.
84
35.2130798650001, −80.93434288
35.2209434880001, −80.93434288
35.2209434880001, −80.924747233
35.2130798650001, −80.924747233.
85
37.268469865, −76.6497831579999
37.300168225, −76.6497831579999
37.300168225, −76.5808454679999
37.268469865, −76.5808454679999.
86
38.652772446, −76.537514883
38.665190459, −76.537514883
38.665190459, −76.526755785
38.652772446, −76.526755785.
87
38.730266928, −104.854175709
38.748479779, −104.854175709
38.748479779, −104.830998169
38.730266928, −104.830998169.
88
41.1585808, −104.827282882
41.163962628, −104.827282882
41.163962628, −104.811583526
41.1585808, −104.811583526.
89
33.0433918000001, −115.769002927
33.561860554, −115.769002927
33.561860554, −114.937048224
33.0433918000001, −114.937048224.
90
64.256937909, −149.271311872
64.318532807, −149.271311872
64.318532807, −149.078782527
64.256937909, −149.078782527.
91
48.0181544170001, −122.749058066
48.0882406420001, −122.749058066
48.0882406420001, −122.699833714
48.0181544170001, −122.699833714.
92
55.260399471, −162.892009844
55.266039599, −162.892009844
55.266039599, −162.882133146
55.260399471, −162.882133146.
93
32.9238514580001, −88.597781493
33.6613396510001, −88.597781493
33.6613396510001, −88.419408536
32.9238514580001, −88.419408536.
94
42.2857517910001, −71.366797532
42.2934966590001, −71.366797532
42.2934966590001, −71.355575286
42.2857517910001, −71.355575286.
95
30.396955129, −87.301358539
30.41034727, −87.301358539
30.41034727, −87.278142462
30.396955129, −87.278142462.
96
36.8832992170001, −76.3808126719999
36.8943868090001, −76.3808126719999
36.8943868090001, −76.3390713729999
36.8832992170001, −76.3390713729999.
97
36.4941214200001, −115.88042321
36.7385429400001, −115.88042321
36.7385429400001, −115.4868387
36.4941214200001, −115.4868387.
98
21.299764458, −158.073065748
21.327294536, −158.073065748
21.327294536, −158.044610628
21.299764458, −158.044610628.
99
36.779547069, −119.702471155
36.782099199, −119.702471155
36.782099199, −119.701514522
36.779547069, −119.701514522.
100
42.15393814, −70.9374754149999
42.158515225, −70.9374754149999
42.158515225, −70.9301741339999
42.15393814, −70.9301741339999.
101
48.4214595020001, −117.41300542
48.5515751880001, −117.41300542
48.5515751880001, −117.35926532
48.4214595020001, −117.35926532.
102
26.091587869, −80.111818708
26.092584016, −80.111818708
26.092584016, −80.108205835
26.091587869, −80.108205835.
103
35.6459372400001, −75.991669019
35.7768890170001, −75.991669019
35.7768890170001, −75.771652698
35.6459372400001, −75.771652698.
104
32.1193109110001, −110.909314221
32.1962087390001, −110.909314221
32.1962087390001, −110.789766372
32.1193109110001, −110.789766372.
105
37.408487704, −77.453738162
37.439266805, −77.453738162
37.439266805, −77.435618651
37.408487704, −77.435618651.
106
38.8781991000001, −77.109040482
38.8792949460001, −77.109040482
38.8792949460001, −77.108174294
38.8781991000001, −77.108174294.
107
40.1972506380001, −76.853865245
40.2226551520001, −76.853865245
40.2226551520001, −76.8221857039999
40.1972506380001, −76.8221857039999.
108
39.974582163, −82.913383443
39.985122185, −82.913383443
39.985122185, −82.884325098
39.974582163, −82.884325098.
109
41.537901628, −93.674402705
41.549978514, −93.674402705
41.549978514, −93.657102163
41.537901628, −93.657102163.
110
30.40946552, −86.500613385
30.412738745, −86.500613385
30.412738745, −86.4971744769999
30.40946552, −86.4971744769999.
111
37.9630717110001, −122.027819871
38.0227201040001, −122.027819871
38.0227201040001, −121.939142028
37.9630717110001, −121.939142028.
112
39.8839370650001, −75.190933843
39.8984743260001, −75.190933843
39.8984743260001, −75.16306509
39.8839370650001, −75.16306509.
113
42.4914812000001, −83.046418438
42.5026695230001, −83.046418438
42.5026695230001, −83.037544269
42.4914812000001, −83.037544269.
114
42.4694829900001, −71.691664547
42.5765892500001, −71.691664547
42.5765892500001, −71.603764233
42.4694829900001, −71.603764233.
115
46.9314271700001, −67.8969077639999
46.9342671660001, −67.8969077639999
46.9342671660001, −67.8923200479999
46.9314271700001, −67.8923200479999.
116
21.567863645, −158.21347981
21.581952858, −158.21347981
21.581952858, −158.180039671
21.567863645, −158.180039671.
117
28.0671354250001, −98.778173769
28.1245884970001, −98.778173769
28.1245884970001, −98.685192869
28.0671354250001, −98.685192869.
118
33.8969244250001, −84.542380856
33.9367576460001, −84.542380856
33.9367576460001, −84.495305955
33.8969244250001, −84.495305955.
119
39.10595655, −75.494449085
39.152386899, −75.494449085
39.152386899, −75.436634728
39.10595655, −75.436634728.
120
24.568031467, −81.781745689
24.585123807, −81.781745689
24.585123807, −81.765170818
24.568031467, −81.765170818.
121
32.674333394, −117.133765
32.692839739, −117.133765
32.692839739, −117.108967938
32.674333394, −117.108967938.
122
46.8330442210001, −92.21102751
46.8510308170001, −92.21102751
46.8510308170001, −92.165423416
46.8330442210001, −92.165423416.
123
32.3941914100001, −99.867572545
32.4478988670001, −99.867572545
32.4478988670001, −99.808678428
32.3941914100001, −99.808678428.
124
52.7044712040001, 174.053643507
52.7410254930001, 174.053643507
52.7410254930001, 174.156518998
52.7044712040001, 174.156518998.
125
34.762486344, −118.140763438
35.017611389, −118.140763438
35.017611389, −117.525081645
34.762486344, −117.525081645.
126
30.381138945, −86.8509824239999
30.405275435, −86.8509824239999
30.405275435, −86.6331687359999
30.381138945, −86.6331687359999.
127
30.6217855130001, −86.7554594279999
30.6494843350001, −86.7554594279999
30.6494843350001, −86.7303715759999
30.6217855130001, −86.7303715759999.
128
27.0764966720001, −86.983116121
30.7497294690001, −86.983116121
30.7497294690001, −82.448862506
27.0764966720001, −82.448862506.
129
64.6012802210001, −147.165786418
64.7480079510001, −147.165786418
64.7480079510001, −146.938371648
64.6012802210001, −146.938371648.
130
36.8644398160001, −76.3344377989999
36.8708429060001, −76.3344377989999
36.8708429060001, −76.3299793119999
36.8644398160001, −76.3299793119999.
131
29.5899224830001, −95.17474779
29.6230511860001, −95.17474779
29.6230511860001, −95.16633921
29.5899224830001, −95.16633921.
132
44.112997566, −103.129144564
44.176511165, −103.129144564
44.176511165, −103.060660125
44.112997566, −103.060660125.
133
31.325926945, −92.549004972
31.34466339, −92.549004972
31.34466339, −92.532050872
31.325926945, −92.532050872.
134
39.4012000000001, −77.9954
39.4140000010001, −77.9954
39.4140000010001, −77.9708
39.4012000000001, −77.9708.
135
47.5887747180001, −117.693058242
47.6428480860001, −117.693058242
47.6428480860001, −117.623082729
47.5887747180001, −117.623082729.
136
33.3291382400001, −117.313779432
33.3984247810001, −117.313779432
33.3984247810001, −117.249241913
33.3291382400001, −117.249241913.
137
38.826363557, −118.950589204
39.942237, −118.950589204
39.942237, −117.125199131
38.826363557, −117.125199131.
138
36.9206436430001, −76.324596591
36.9225983950001, −76.324596591
36.9225983950001, −76.321048116
36.9206436430001, −76.321048116.
139
30.395125636, −81.633046236
30.406669179, −81.633046236
30.406669179, −81.613437212
30.395125636, −81.613437212.
140
24.567441214, −81.801443736
24.594738599, −81.801443736
24.594738599, −81.79382837
24.567441214, −81.79382837.
141
38.9355059150001, −95.6866671779999
38.9672269680001, −95.6866671779999
38.9672269680001, −95.6739997489999
38.9355059150001, −95.6739997489999.
142
32.7263297590001, −117.225651967
32.7323354850001, −117.225651967
32.7323354850001, −117.215769817
32.7263297590001, −117.215769817.
143
41.4732485420001, −71.3429884129999
41.4772592680001, −71.3429884129999
41.4772592680001, −71.3354651549999
41.4732485420001, −71.3354651549999.
144
38.6728683430001, −77.202015081
38.7484680470001, −77.202015081
38.7484680470001, −77.1209734769999
38.6728683430001, −77.1209734769999.
145
39.855326909, −86.028620872
39.864369447, −86.028620872
39.864369447, −86.003845091
39.855326909, −86.003845091.
146
31.7888139250001, −106.581474459
32.6965880790001, −106.581474459
32.6965880790001, −105.524846042
31.7888139250001, −105.524846042.
147
18.4046924090001, −66.1341755349999
18.4221096420001, −66.1341755349999
18.4221096420001, −66.1054899209999
18.4046924090001, −66.1054899209999.
148
36.5354833810001, −87.820914236
36.7268240330001, −87.820914236
36.7268240330001, −87.423400866
36.5354833810001, −87.423400866.
149
38.418237328, −104.967064928
38.765149965, −104.967064928
38.765149965, −104.717754537
38.418237328, −104.717754537.
150
30.7215072980001, −97.913021062
31.3927951710001, −97.913021062
31.3927951710001, −97.382600936
30.7215072980001, −97.382600936.
151
21.277988357, −157.837039889
21.28553417, −157.837039889
21.28553417, −157.831141168
21.277988357, −157.831141168.
152
39.428600294, −77.437471934
39.450390568, −77.437471934
39.450390568, −77.410819037
39.428600294, −77.410819037.
153
39.0020859900001, −77.060006807
39.0129141590001, −77.060006807
39.0129141590001, −77.05003399
39.0020859900001, −77.05003399.
154
39.0320227890001, −77.04385429
39.0346693610001, −77.04385429
39.0346693610001, −77.03866628
39.0320227890001, −77.03866628.
155
44.010913031, −75.842125669
44.256536804, −75.842125669
44.256536804, −75.386367945
44.010913031, −75.386367945.
156
33.274519335, −82.379611728
33.440619771, −82.379611728
33.440619771, −82.096232277
33.274519335, −82.096232277.
157
33.6089633770001, −84.35154274
33.6319158920001, −84.35154274
33.6319158920001, −84.307486309
33.6089633770001, −84.307486309.
158
63.9388112670001, −145.772613518
64.0231208060001, −145.772613518
64.0231208060001, −145.655809936
63.9388112670001, −145.655809936.
159
37.213516865, −77.358595158
37.298684924, −77.358595158
37.298684924, −77.307488144
37.213516865, −77.307488144.
160
40.604582683, −74.034049003
40.613167841, −74.034049003
40.613167841, −74.0206090659999
40.604582683, −74.0206090659999.
161
31.434363842, −110.449131361
31.686859773, −110.449131361
31.686859773, −110.188946087
31.434363842, −110.188946087.
162
35.7935092910001, −121.426498813
36.1147194860001, −121.426498813
36.1147194860001, −121.031600619
35.7935092910001, −121.031600619.
163
35.082504812, −117.084003937
35.627708795, −117.084003937
35.627708795, −116.163545882
35.082504812, −116.163545882.
164
33.9829769470001, −80.959251815
34.0836392030001, −80.959251815
34.0836392030001, −80.704124579
33.9829769470001, −80.704124579.
165
30.921870988, −93.579998793
31.490503162, −93.579998793
31.490503162, −92.862745164
30.921870988, −92.862745164.
166
37.78807672, −86.056877114
38.0073711200001, −86.056877114
38.0073711200001, −85.747574551
37.78807672, −85.747574551.
167
39.3284266840001, −94.949264706
39.3922569280001, −94.949264706
39.3922569280001, −94.880745646
39.3284266840001, −94.880745646.
168
37.6037963470001, −92.2500513099999
37.7999725520001, −92.2500513099999
37.7999725520001, −92.0408380759999
37.6037963470001, −92.0408380759999.
169
35.039462073, −79.38062969
35.274563988, −79.38062969
35.274563988, −78.901879671
35.039462073, −78.901879671.
170
43.90284867, −90.765375865
44.159924233, −90.765375865
44.159924233, −90.587856675
43.90284867, −90.587856675.
171
39.071479147, −76.776616336
39.130981819, −76.776616336
39.130981819, −76.709232204
39.071479147, −76.709232204.
172
40.2844597280001, −74.096750839
40.3390552010001, −74.096750839
40.3390552010001, −74.026249284
40.2844597280001, −74.026249284.
173
37.000205414, −76.3170219039999
37.035192566, −76.3170219039999
37.035192566, −76.2925912169999
37.000205414, −76.2925912169999.
174
32.2387118290001, −85.021200904
32.5517604030001, −85.021200904
32.5517604030001, −84.637054935
32.2387118290001, −84.637054935.
175
31.314144049, −85.865695246
31.505687537, −85.865695246
31.505687537, −85.612193512
31.314144049, −85.612193512.
176
39.0366899860001, −96.962729439
39.3067854380001, −96.962729439
39.3067854380001, −96.681803847
39.0366899860001, −96.681803847.
177
21.3344869650001, −157.894073145
21.3570876230001, −157.894073145
21.3570876230001, −157.87189508
21.3344869650001, −157.87189508.
178
42.203459073, −87.8100502569999
42.216029281, −87.8100502569999
42.216029281, −87.7987031449999
42.203459073, −87.7987031449999.
179
34.637509069, −98.755961597
34.768015017, −98.755961597
34.768015017, −98.282396833
34.637509069, −98.282396833.
180
35.247127112, −94.374048025
35.345197662, −94.374048025
35.345197662, −94.080609487
35.247127112, −94.080609487.
181
31.8490945500001, −81.889069385
32.1248422650001, −81.889069385
32.1248422650001, −81.304927888
31.8490945500001, −81.304927888.
182
63.495426454, −148.652607873
64.877948104, −148.652607873
64.877948104, −145.011700164
63.495426454, −145.011700164.
183
38.018142733, −77.395133849
38.2229469870001, −77.395133849
38.2229469870001, −77.136746906
38.018142733, −77.136746906.
184
35.4225141090001, −108.629517745
35.5234010050001, −108.629517745
35.5234010050001, −108.546488603
35.4225141090001, −108.546488603.
185
66.558440788, −145.217198219
66.562635721, −145.217198219
66.562635721, −145.196865879
66.558440788, −145.196865879.
186
41.131595797, −104.888175803
41.201251583, −104.888175803
41.201251583, −104.839386748
41.131595797, −104.839386748.
187
40.8317168790001, −72.646569509
40.8404590060001, −72.646569509
40.8404590060001, −72.637878307
40.8317168790001, −72.637878307.
188
36.7652210320001, −119.726849268
36.7866408030001, −119.726849268
36.7866408030001, −119.702290588
36.7652210320001, −119.702290588.
189
39.046072102, −76.689705918
39.068500337, −76.689705918
39.068500337, −76.660214864
39.046072102, −76.660214864.
190
42.9373147850001, −87.891735357
42.9447209110001, −87.891735357
42.9447209110001, −87.88532841
42.9373147850001, −87.88532841.
191
40.6559953350001, −89.713436026
40.6713177760001, −89.713436026
40.6713177760001, −89.691898535
40.6559953350001, −89.691898535.
192
42.297663631, −87.8562319869999
42.303204758, −87.8562319869999
42.303204758, −87.8518457849999
42.297663631, −87.8518457849999.
193
42.0902179130001, −87.8412161049999
42.0929537750001, −87.8412161049999
42.0929537750001, −87.8329821559999
42.0902179130001, −87.8329821559999.
194
31.410361906, −85.4658208399999
31.419467447, −85.4658208399999
31.419467447, −85.4610573259999
31.410361906, −85.4610573259999.
195
33.422394339, −112.015046889
33.427659719, −112.015046889
33.427659719, −112.006740103
33.422394339, −112.006740103.
196
31.4211524990001, −100.421423136
31.4502936180001, −100.421423136
31.4502936180001, −100.386562872
31.4211524990001, −100.386562872.
197
41.5355012680001, −71.3460647429999
41.5398354990001, −71.3460647429999
41.5398354990001, −71.3433558969999
41.5355012680001, −71.3433558969999.
198
47.921128756, −97.4238744209999
48.00111753, −97.4238744209999
48.00111753, −97.3251566139999
47.921128756, −97.3251566139999.
199
32.7378756470001, −96.960057831
32.7421326520001, −96.960057831
32.7421326520001, −96.951545219
32.7378756470001, −96.951545219.
200
47.471916874, −111.370342141
47.482136373, −111.370342141
47.482136373, −111.35856852
47.471916874, −111.35856852.
201
38.935411516, −110.143618375
38.983389468, −110.143618375
38.983389468, −110.064497018
38.935411516, −110.064497018.
202
40.629836335, −86.175582897
40.6784136910001, −86.175582897
40.6784136910001, −86.124933251
40.629836335, −86.124933251.
203
30.404753499, −89.06446994
30.416012997, −89.06446994
30.416012997, −89.05803309
30.404753499, −89.05803309.
204
62.384524694, −145.202752458
62.438701327, −145.202752458
62.438701327, −145.108315
62.384524694, −145.108315.
205
43.0985925350001, −76.1175710329999
43.1204055300001, −76.1175710329999
43.1204055300001, −76.0811541549999
43.0985925350001, −76.0811541549999.
206
42.449141119, −71.2922332959999
42.477596104, −71.2922332959999
42.477596104, −71.263228187
42.449141119, −71.263228187.
207
32.728744878, −117.208959019
32.730100028, −117.208959019
32.730100028, −117.205155926
32.728744878, −117.205155926.
208
44.220163461, −90.111781241
44.249174018, −90.111781241
44.249174018, −89.996184064
44.220163461, −89.996184064.
209
38.229497861, −118.850468214
38.675823329, −118.850468214
38.675823329, −118.465402259
38.229497861, −118.465402259.
210
46.9082501180001, −96.813335915
46.9192707510001, −96.813335915
46.9192707510001, −96.797905722
46.9082501180001, −96.797905722.
211
21.530784666, −158.026158574
21.541312201, −158.026158574
21.541312201, −158.012928076
21.530784666, −158.012928076.
212
21.4521601660001, −158.036478816
21.4580696550001, −158.036478816
21.4580696550001, −158.032403386
21.4521601660001, −158.032403386.
213
31.1479145100001, −85.744240415
31.1546432720001, −85.744240415
31.1546432720001, −85.729933472
31.1479145100001, −85.729933472.
214
41.0983339530001, −112.024399889
41.1651189630001, −112.024399889
41.1651189630001, −111.942395214
41.0983339530001, −111.942395214.
215
32.7930228270001, −106.204383402
33.0771885310001, −106.204383402
33.0771885310001, −106.049512667
32.7930228270001, −106.049512667.
216
36.4958650950001, −82.684996348
36.5518898770001, −82.684996348
36.5518898770001, −82.546522187
36.4958650950001, −82.546522187.
217
32.828679521, −115.288498013
32.846906967, −115.288498013
32.846906967, −115.14568048
32.828679521, −115.14568048.
218
25.4901310220001, −80.4045291039999
25.5181528940001, −80.4045291039999
25.5181528940001, −80.3779792709999
25.4901310220001, −80.3779792709999.
219
39.446631245, −87.304009056
39.458100621, −87.304009056
39.458100621, −87.290668741
39.446631245, −87.290668741.
220
31.3751890450001, −85.5828701299999
31.3850761720001, −85.5828701299999
31.3850761720001, −85.5773414419999
31.3751890450001, −85.5773414419999.
221
31.9832369490001, −81.198805141
32.0349005460001, −81.198805141
32.0349005460001, −81.113375475
31.9832369490001, −81.113375475.
222
30.406119645, −86.74211065
30.45486409, −86.74211065
30.45486409, −86.655360926
30.406119645, −86.655360926.
223
32.5545594160001, −117.133035356
32.5724338440001, −117.133035356
32.5724338440001, −117.089509557
32.5545594160001, −117.089509557.
224
65.9646785140001, −153.812691683
66.1009999220001, −153.812691683
66.1009999220001, −153.662067587
65.9646785140001, −153.662067587.
225
38.435308005, −85.627248303
38.4668353, −85.627248303
38.4668353, −85.584713152
38.435308005, −85.584713152.
226
40.7516430220001, −91.325065862
40.8294821280001, −91.325065862
40.8294821280001, −91.178786412
40.7516430220001, −91.178786412.
227
32.311624454, −90.0879237459999
32.328439256, −90.0879237459999
32.328439256, −90.0778932449999
32.311624454, −90.0778932449999.
228
30.402512915, −81.628884649
30.408229141, −81.628884649
30.408229141, −81.613589029
30.402512915, −81.613589029.
229
29.9570817420001, −81.972797144
30.4921986090001, −81.972797144
30.4921986090001, −81.69382023
29.9570817420001, −81.69382023.
230
38.8109873670001, −85.4822157569999
39.0601368300001, −85.4822157569999
39.0601368300001, −85.3594923629999
38.8109873670001, −85.3594923629999.
231
48.1670940830001, −121.958243024
48.2248098330001, −121.958243024
48.2248098330001, −121.887559225
48.1670940830001, −121.887559225.
232
43.5700133340001, −96.7515566289999
43.5962111540001, −96.7515566289999
43.5962111540001, −96.7347550689999
43.5700133340001, −96.7347550689999.
233
38.823559833, −77.026428621
38.867319001, −77.026428621
38.867319001, −77.002855219
38.823559833, −77.002855219.
234
38.7822985190001, −76.90343143
38.829021577, −76.90343143
38.829021577, −76.8490210659999
38.7822985190001, −76.8490210659999.
235
41.6372929940001, −70.5993199659999
41.7708974620001, −70.5993199659999
41.7708974620001, −70.4886883249999
41.6372929940001, −70.4886883249999.
236
32.873792952, −81.104787366
33.621879998, −81.104787366
33.621879998, −79.90958174
32.873792952, −79.90958174.
237
61.1317682310001, −149.879980832
61.4090492570001, −149.879980832
61.4090492570001, −149.522914627
61.1317682310001, −149.522914627.
238
37.063373746, −76.627940713
37.182586941, −76.627940713
37.182586941, −76.336599693
37.063373746, −76.336599693.
239
45.8002376150001, −122.802079191
47.2187487550001, −122.802079191
47.2187487550001, −119.30029009
45.8002376150001, −119.30029009.
240
39.9443860000001, −74.661412648
40.0586108630001, −74.661412648
40.0586108630001, −74.304547511
39.9443860000001, −74.304547511.
241
38.8611352610001, −77.084491842
38.8880351040001, −77.084491842
38.8880351040001, −77.013817583
38.8611352610001, −77.013817583.
242
21.2966123480001, −158.17382288
21.6863899190001, −158.17382288
21.6863899190001, −157.850223188
21.2966123480001, −157.850223188.
243
29.346205018, −98.690308725
29.893089367, −98.690308725
29.893089367, −97.884281333
29.346205018, −97.884281333.
244
36.892714836, −76.1925524759999
36.932892732, −76.1925524759999
36.932892732, −75.9873603089999
36.892714836, −75.9873603089999.
245
37.8190118270001, −75.514689614
37.9512715100001, −75.514689614
37.9512715100001, −75.413609963
37.8190118270001, −75.413609963.
246
40.6939221220001, −84.148196529
40.7086310680001, −84.148196529
40.7086310680001, −84.127525454
40.6939221220001, −84.127525454.
247
41.3409958870001, −88.082958084
41.3733639960001, −88.082958084
41.3733639960001, −88.046036417
41.3409958870001, −88.046036417.
248
41.4073674850001, −88.187831293
41.4365859010001, −88.187831293
41.4365859010001, −88.107459928
41.4073674850001, −88.107459928.
249
21.560298554, −158.266932035
21.572360392, −158.266932035
21.572360392, −158.237835914
21.560298554, −158.237835914.
250
21.6027392400001, −158.033515202
21.6936355750001, −158.033515202
21.6936355750001, −157.95298898
21.6027392400001, −157.95298898.
251
22.035974347, −159.75916373
22.042080758, −159.75916373
22.042080758, −159.750865139
22.035974347, −159.750865139.
252
20.0291620130001, −155.834320072
20.0374297880001, −155.834320072
20.0374297880001, −155.823440805
20.0291620130001, −155.823440805.
253
30.398126636, −88.9508689469999
30.420139346, −88.9508689469999
30.420139346, −88.896527048
30.398126636, −88.896527048.
254
36.7153178120001, −98.128361282
36.7547185190001, −98.128361282
36.7547185190001, −98.110051089
36.7153178120001, −98.110051089.
255
60.558793666, −151.257835885
60.560759837, −151.257835885
60.560759837, −151.254274297
60.558793666, −151.254274297.
256
19.4318712580001, −155.27720251
19.4367646340001, −155.27720251
19.4367646340001, −155.271614951
19.4318712580001, −155.271614951.
257
58.638365343, −156.693447262
58.708746999, −156.693447262
58.708746999, −156.459187473
58.638365343, −156.459187473.
258
42.1444655070001, −121.753628091
42.1707914760001, −121.753628091
42.1707914760001, −121.727677654
42.1444655070001, −121.727677654.
259
21.4148860290001, −158.014284187
21.4580033840001, −158.014284187
21.4580033840001, −157.991853913
21.4148860290001, −157.991853913.
260
34.9471711320001, −106.613226109
35.0673284870001, −106.613226109
35.0673284870001, −106.360768374
34.9471711320001, −106.360768374.
261
57.816486609, −152.341066882
57.826001907, −152.341066882
57.826001907, −152.325036589
57.816486609, −152.325036589.
262
66.837046801, −162.617184378
66.856648663, −162.617184378
66.856648663, −162.565302627
66.837046801, −162.565302627.
263
36.900584673, −76.30409839
36.903859448, −76.30409839
36.903859448, −76.300769409
36.900584673, −76.300769409.
264
39.080371583, −94.283657449
39.111476783, −94.283657449
39.111476783, −94.21198472
39.080371583, −94.21198472.
265
38.0785775370001, −92.6119067879999
38.0962204240001, −92.6119067879999
38.0962204240001, −92.5989103479999
38.0785775370001, −92.5989103479999.
266
29.1085864770001, −100.811107299
29.3792559920001, −100.811107299
29.3792559920001, −100.460775759
29.1085864770001, −100.460775759.
267
39.979501278, −77.766381881
40.061676766, −77.766381881
40.061676766, −77.627738092
39.979501278, −77.627738092.
268
40.8367062990001, −96.759207222
40.8453505060001, −96.759207222
40.8453505060001, −96.74825231
40.8367062990001, −96.74825231.
269
68.865164727, −166.153805131
68.877996761, −166.153805131
68.877996761, −166.053355378
68.865164727, −166.053355378.
270
34.881841514, −92.178033909
34.928710282, −92.178033909
34.928710282, −92.097368909
34.881841514, −92.097368909.
271
33.7407601990001, −118.234788427
33.7451476500001, −118.234788427
33.7451476500001, −118.232155662
33.7407601990001, −118.232155662.
272
32.646434739, −94.170119305
32.694891651, −94.170119305
32.694891651, −94.10955796
32.646434739, −94.10955796.
273
33.916514003, −118.449299679
34.057048416, −118.449299679
34.057048416, −118.378717014
33.916514003, −118.378717014.
274
33.8581476250001, −118.23660337
33.8593838490001, −118.23660337
33.8593838490001, −118.235035273
33.8581476250001, −118.235035273.
275
38.173833589, −85.7272245249999
38.181490413, −85.7272245249999
38.181490413, −85.7200947549999
38.173833589, −85.7200947549999.
276
31.812802193, −85.654704728
31.818371904, −85.654704728
31.818371904, −85.646082241
31.812802193, −85.646082241.
277
18.439120508, −65.9970120469999
18.446769386, −65.9970120469999
18.446769386, −65.9877331199999
18.439120508, −65.9877331199999.
278
33.5136616820001, −112.545349748
33.7241408570001, −112.545349748
33.7241408570001, −112.319683167
33.5136616820001, −112.319683167.
279
27.821277411, −82.537659279
27.869304053, −82.537659279
27.869304053, −82.469154309
27.821277411, −82.469154309.
280
22.127046405, −159.731450362
22.13630275, −159.731450362
22.13630275, −159.71827724
22.127046405, −159.71827724.
281
21.5127546910001, −158.239749591
21.5514708600001, −158.239749591
21.5514708600001, −158.173991939
21.5127546910001, −158.173991939
282
47.4870471620001, −111.21562151
47.5233762890001, −111.21562151
47.5233762890001, −111.152194907
47.4870471620001, −111.152194907.
283
47.562267374, −122.556511461
47.570404086, −122.556511461
47.570404086, −122.531291341
47.562267374, −122.531291341.
284
40.8062092000001, −82.5260369709999
40.8156897690001, −82.5260369709999
40.8156897690001, −82.5130393979999
40.8062092000001, −82.5130393979999.
285
33.855508925, −117.319151995
33.916474896, −117.319151995
33.916474896, −117.239122083
33.855508925, −117.239122083.
286
34.2011154190001, −116.717969816
34.7339793100001, −116.717969816
34.7339793100001, −115.720717569
34.2011154190001, −115.720717569.
287
32.280961146, −80.76567248
32.510825803, −80.76567248
32.510825803, −80.65947492
32.280961146, −80.65947492.
288
34.6814644040001, −77.2763334639999
35.076192102, −77.2763334639999
35.076192102, −76.3302441729999
34.6814644040001, −76.3302441729999.
289
32.833111095, −117.188623475
32.920651119, −117.188623475
32.920651119, −116.984937219
32.833111095, −116.984937219.
290
34.558215246, −77.4842054699999
34.746048414, −77.4842054699999
34.746048414, −77.370277147
34.558215246, −77.370277147.
291
32.622994906, −114.64004722
32.679820865, −114.64004722
32.679820865, −114.578207704
32.622994906, −114.578207704.
292
34.4950770080001, −77.6073096539999
34.7485511280001, −77.6073096539999
34.7485511280001, −77.177756721
34.4950770080001, −77.177756721.
293
33.205532089, −117.596249485
33.503658101, −117.596249485
33.503658101, −117.249972307
33.205532089, −117.249972307.
294
21.4274913960001, −157.778625985
21.4626192360001, −157.778625985
21.4626192360001, −157.722086618
21.4274913960001, −157.722086618.
295
21.38026423, −157.914545183
21.392788317, −157.914545183
21.392788317, −157.897882367
21.38026423, −157.897882367.
296
38.4790113490001, −77.609862936
38.6440896410001, −77.609862936
38.6440896410001, −77.283059322
38.4790113490001, −77.283059322.
297
31.5437915750001, −84.095978531
31.5617240260001, −84.095978531
31.5617240260001, −84.007643854
31.5437915750001, −84.007643854.
298
34.8434594240001, −116.97121195
34.8817582680001, −116.97121195
34.8817582680001, −116.909128396
34.8434594240001, −116.909128396.
299
38.5154624990001, −77.3711151099999
38.5235364690001, −77.3711151099999
38.5235364690001, −77.3589766939999
38.5154624990001, −77.3589766939999.
300
30.391006078, −81.537656096
30.413437169, −81.537656096
30.413437169, −81.509630857
30.391006078, −81.509630857.
301
38.828254514, −77.120041471
38.831963061, −77.120041471
38.831963061, −77.114666209
38.828254514, −77.114666209.
302
39.32514001, −76.4241855929999
39.337202481, −76.4241855929999
39.337202481, −76.4075152099999
39.32514001, −76.4075152099999.
303
48.1206874690001, −122.17350321
48.1263336970001, −122.17350321
48.1263336970001, −122.168283314
48.1206874690001, −122.168283314.
304
32.365364879, −86.376531674
32.415623844, −86.376531674
32.415623844, −86.232684034
32.365364879, −86.232684034.
305
21.3463596610001, −157.732313131
21.3809869910001, −157.732313131
21.3809869910001, −157.706839578
21.3463596610001, −157.706839578.
306
34.75300134, −96.021930066
34.887500702, −96.021930066
34.887500702, −95.825334438
34.75300134, −95.825334438.
307
38.6375594030001, −121.429181885
38.6902393680001, −121.429181885
38.6902393680001, −121.382899272
38.6375594030001, −121.382899272.
308
37.5874487990001, −97.29929204
37.6560529930001, −97.29929204
37.6560529930001, −97.2134855509999
37.5874487990001, −97.2134855509999.
309
33.90292894, −80.822110255
33.94386779, −80.822110255
33.94386779, −80.780803864
33.90292894, −80.780803864.
310
35.800297926, −84.013675843
35.822581272, −84.013675843
35.822581272, −83.989979889
35.800297926, −83.989979889.
311
38.36798888, −81.594851531
38.378026582, −81.594851531
38.378026582, −81.58529054
38.36798888, −81.58529054.
312
32.7348147280001, −117.209483129
32.7455697900001, −117.209483129
32.7455697900001, −117.184267844
32.7348147280001, −117.184267844.
313
34.214686409, −103.863834999
34.383336857, −103.863834999
34.383336857, −103.668558352
34.214686409, −103.668558352.
314
35.021000852, −89.9701571149999
35.030015831, −89.9701571149999
35.030015831, −89.9638125029999
35.021000852, −89.9638125029999.
315
35.815792593, −88.754286881
35.946160368, −88.754286881
35.946160368, −88.646037805
35.815792593, −88.646037805.
316
38.015441735, −122.065438909
38.095180461, −122.065438909
38.095180461, −121.969625159
38.015441735, −121.969625159.
317
33.9560292030001, −78.0749530269999
34.2460740690001, −78.0749530269999
34.2460740690001, −77.9056468759999
33.9560292030001, −77.9056468759999.
318
44.8853655020001, −93.222511412
44.8980690540001, −93.222511412
44.8980690540001, −93.19773597
44.8853655020001, −93.19773597.
319
48.3955222490001, −101.391958779
48.4441800980001, −101.391958779
48.4441800980001, −101.29967086
48.3955222490001, −101.29967086.
320
32.792070847, −117.105638208
32.815502529, −117.105638208
32.815502529, −117.081336656
32.792070847, −117.081336656.
321
32.302879454, −86.410672153
32.306804183, −86.410672153
32.306804183, −86.3958063469999
32.302879454, −86.3958063469999.
322
30.935302703, −83.219069939
31.014479318, −83.219069939
31.014479318, −83.1288484929999
30.935302703, −83.1288484929999.
323
43.0246506180001, −115.895653384
43.0755981900001, −115.895653384
43.0755981900001, −115.836219587
43.0246506180001, −115.836219587.
324
39.041961471, −85.545884974
39.059126926, −85.545884974
39.059126926, −85.502112731
39.041961471, −85.502112731.
325
32.8074254250001, −115.698918811
32.8401116740001, −115.698918811
32.8401116740001, −115.646437997
32.8074254250001, −115.646437997.
326
28.5876565020001, −97.628083873
28.6265345250001, −97.628083873
28.6265345250001, −97.584907879
28.5876565020001, −97.584907879.
327
71.310648094, −156.674424861
71.344323368, −156.674424861
71.344323368, −156.617754628
71.310648094, −156.617754628.
328
43.8597372520001, −69.95330606
43.9103207020001, −69.95330606
43.9103207020001, −69.909873769
43.8597372520001, −69.909873769.
329
32.743470873, −97.44549275
32.787133199, −97.44549275
32.787133199, −97.413267401
32.743470873, −97.413267401.
330
30.1941004770001, −81.7076006299999
30.2458023780001, −81.7076006299999
30.2458023780001, −81.6593342339999
30.1941004770001, −81.6593342339999.
331
40.1857296150001, −75.164926593
40.2167846540001, −75.164926593
40.2167846540001, −75.134209434
40.1857296150001, −75.134209434.
332
24.5560839770001, −81.722408305
24.5971158050001, −81.722408305
24.5971158050001, −81.653518462
24.5560839770001, −81.653518462.
333
27.4674233900001, −97.832157771
27.5231989330001, −97.832157771
27.5231989330001, −97.788047634
27.4674233900001, −97.788047634.
334
36.255073843, −119.977147505
36.386386503, −119.977147505
36.386386503, −119.869576662
36.255073843, −119.869576662.
335
30.326507308, −87.352445013
30.375924031, −87.352445013
30.375924031, −87.257235015
30.326507308, −87.257235015.
336
30.683881264, −87.043781272
30.738102029, −87.043781272
30.738102029, −86.997376436
30.683881264, −86.997376436.
337
36.106696485, −86.67860059
36.114637747, −86.67860059
36.114637747, −86.67190118
36.106696485, −86.67190118.
338
32.6696509240001, −117.114230685
32.6740385570001, −117.114230685
32.6740385570001, −117.111967973
32.6696509240001, −117.111967973.
339
38.9746589920001, −76.4937690629999
39.0026084470001, −76.4937690629999
39.0026084470001, −76.4487817289999
38.9746589920001, −76.4487817289999.
340
27.61946242, −97.4505952709999
27.718208017, −97.4505952709999
27.718208017, −97.2437083949999
27.61946242, −97.2437083949999.
341
29.8014398060001, −90.0485449769999
29.8575240390001, −90.0485449769999
29.8575240390001, −89.9938950499999
29.8014398060001, −89.9938950499999.
342
32.499252175, −88.6318691439999
32.602832677, −88.6318691439999
32.602832677, −88.5064742839999
32.499252175, −88.5064742839999.
343
36.7852781730001, −76.063232016
36.8386906080001, −76.063232016
36.8386906080001, −75.99817255
36.7852781730001, −75.99817255.
344
36.760031462, −75.9846076869999
36.818318534, −75.9846076869999
36.818318534, −75.9490831369999
36.760031462, −75.9490831369999.
345
38.2488191400001, −76.46369128
38.3093935480001, −76.46369128
38.3093935480001, −76.373549279
38.2488191400001, −76.373549279.
346
48.311418739, −122.708096597
48.369700655, −122.708096597
48.369700655, −122.617753395
48.311418739, −122.617753395.
347
35.2654343400001, −117.8902031
36.2318077000001, −117.8902031
36.2318077000001, −116.9249447
35.2654343400001, −116.9249447.
348
13.3091094070001, 144.618332428
13.5883222610001, 144.618332428
13.5883222610001, 144.916357575
13.3091094070001, 144.916357575.
349
47.6909210600001, −122.628044406
47.705184112, −122.628044406
47.705184112, −122.613798201
47.6909210600001, −122.613798201.
350
47.6767991730001, −122.747424327
47.7726169310001, −122.747424327
47.7726169310001, −122.691878973
47.6767991730001, −122.691878973.
351
47.5449361660001, −122.671768178
47.5653870590001, −122.671768178
47.5653870590001, −122.623883723
47.5449361660001, −122.623883723.
352
32.675119312, −117.256218377
32.713082807, −117.256218377
32.713082807, −117.234025189
32.675119312, −117.234025189.
353
32.6582935910001, −117.135977498
32.6884541840001, −117.135977498
32.6884541840001, −117.112975083
32.6582935910001, −117.112975083.
354
34.088069982, −119.160456826
34.13946678, −119.160456826
34.13946678, −119.064184636
34.088069982, −119.064184636.
355
34.142955882, −119.221480878
34.175763756, −119.221480878
34.175763756, −119.195140105
34.142955882, −119.195140105.
356
55.5394297110001, −131.764707731
55.5429794870001, −131.764707731
55.5429794870001, −131.755720856
55.5394297110001, −131.755720856.
357
46.3564572000001, −98.3483000209999
46.3745994580001, −98.3483000209999
46.3745994580001, −98.3233449679999
46.3564572000001, −98.3233449679999.
358
28.581333934, −81.200124825
28.586585157, −81.200124825
28.586585157, −81.194259644
28.581333934, −81.194259644.
359
18.392254736, −67.185834374
18.405878229, −67.185834374
18.405878229, −67.170701901
18.392254736, −67.170701901.
360
44.6232594310001, −67.328272859
44.7036300010001, −67.328272859
44.7036300010001, −67.254518602
44.6232594310001, −67.254518602.
361
38.9186807040001, −77.070549603
38.9241721890001, −77.070549603
38.9241721890001, −77.063519892
38.9186807040001, −77.063519892.
362
38.8200046750001, −77.027450812
38.8300043240001, −77.027450812
38.8300043240001, −77.017462058
38.8200046750001, −77.017462058.
363
38.406152209, −77.110740786
38.43740876, −77.110740786
38.43740876, −77.0729468369999
38.406152209, −77.0729468369999.
364
30.33369265, −89.64817211
30.417826484, −89.64817211
30.417826484, −89.557854425
30.33369265, −89.557854425.
365
38.6769074200001, −76.34415482
38.6792870940001, −76.34415482
38.6792870940001, −76.343227801
38.6769074200001, −76.343227801.
366
42.3047750280001, −87.845909294
42.3249165520001, −87.845909294
42.3249165520001, −87.828493071
42.3047750280001, −87.828493071.
367
41.503275973, −71.330843392
41.554006671, −71.330843392
41.554006671, −71.30062478
41.503275973, −71.30062478.
368
36.9170290100001, −76.335615748
36.9640415810001, −76.335615748
36.9640415810001, −76.2618193489999
36.9170290100001, −76.2618193489999.
369
30.748875362, −81.576797991
30.837030033, −81.576797991
30.837030033, −81.479993971
30.748875362, −81.479993971.
370
41.3859700670001, −72.09385059
41.4104621860001, −72.09385059
41.4104621860001, −72.07728596
41.3859700670001, −72.07728596.
371
36.8809746540001, −76.427321462
36.8890977200001, −76.427321462
36.8890977200001, −76.419013745
36.8809746540001, −76.419013745.
372
38.74493505, −86.905209651
38.919755352, −86.905209651
38.919755352, −86.6788119869999
38.74493505, −86.6788119869999.
373
30.158883738, −85.760741626
30.188382598, −85.760741626
30.188382598, −85.738993885
30.158883738, −85.738993885.
374
40.0361710110001, −75.101397768
40.0471374300001, −75.101397768
40.0471374300001, −75.088731354
40.0361710110001, −75.088731354.
375
38.871230644, −76.9994186819999
38.876356839, −76.9994186819999
38.876356839, −76.9912418639999
38.871230644, −76.9912418639999.
376
38.9719405210001, −77.203514559
38.9783021020001, −77.203514559
38.9783021020001, −77.180406372
38.9719405210001, −77.180406372.
377
38.3186054830001, −77.051455995
38.3591595940001, −77.051455995
38.3591595940001, −77.014266139
38.3186054830001, −77.014266139.
378
38.5619658580001, −77.2103647979999
38.6069805630001, −77.2103647979999
38.6069805630001, −77.1602485849999
38.5619658580001, −77.1602485849999.
379
47.9738990070001, −116.566365931
47.9810063290001, −116.566365931
47.9810063290001, −116.520622995
47.9738990070001, −116.520622995.
380
40.2250093260001, −74.214186736
40.2823128210001, −74.214186736
40.2823128210001, −74.101728286
40.2250093260001, −74.101728286.
381
33.9177546080001, −117.576534598
33.9314446460001, −117.576534598
33.9314446460001, −117.562312486
33.9177546080001, −117.562312486.
382
37.208022726, −76.633932842
37.273612882, −76.633932842
37.273612882, −76.522493597
37.208022726, −76.522493597.
383
45.6322259620001, −119.895359741
45.8065550300001, −119.895359741
45.8065550300001, −119.455477367
45.6322259620001, −119.455477367.
384
32.681825013, −117.229713083
32.715125046, −117.229713083
32.715125046, −117.180755171
32.681825013, −117.180755171.
385
36.842303428, −76.3151234269999
36.849661128, −76.3151234269999
36.849661128, −76.3024406369999
36.842303428, −76.3024406369999.
386
35.180398117, −111.749899909
35.195319693, −111.749899909
35.195319693, −111.736545714
35.180398117, −111.736545714.
387
40.6710820530001, −112.091693872
40.6820119650001, −112.091693872
40.6820119650001, −112.057868517
40.6710820530001, −112.057868517.
388
37.4104380160001, −122.031548936
37.4153630160001, −122.031548936
37.4153630160001, −122.025261936
37.4104380160001, −122.025261936.
389
47.966605751, −122.271045712
47.994496312, −122.271045712
47.994496312, −122.21398207
47.966605751, −122.21398207.
390
30.361267243, −81.4636657189999
30.400329774, −81.4636657189999
30.400329774, −81.392276891
30.361267243, −81.392276891.
391
38.976796961, −76.4937690629999
38.986732986, −76.4937690629999
38.986732986, −76.4761382759999
38.976796961, −76.4761382759999.
392
38.9970659050001, −77.097142558
39.0074154440001, −77.097142558
39.0074154440001, −77.083297186
38.9970659050001, −77.083297186.
393
36.9181778190001, −76.317281615
36.933520845, −76.317281615
36.933520845, −76.2811604669999
36.9181778190001, −76.2811604669999.
394
40.216016376, −77.001594842
40.239975455, −77.001594842
40.239975455, −76.970791628
40.216016376, −76.970791628.
395
35.3183642820001, −89.890382347
35.3408744740001, −89.890382347
35.3408744740001, −89.85751768
35.3183642820001, −89.85751768.
396
36.593508146, −121.878756787
36.600645199, −121.878756787
36.600645199, −121.867184688
36.593508146, −121.867184688.
397
36.8096651020001, −76.311406446
36.8288368000001, −76.311406446
36.8288368000001, −76.291685476
36.8096651020001, −76.291685476.
398
32.384281554, −80.685725766
32.394141164, −80.685725766
32.394141164, −80.678089804
32.384281554, −80.678089804.
399
33.729669684, −118.099622184
33.774096004, −118.099622184
33.774096004, −118.041605831
33.729669684, −118.041605831.
400
36.5872707780001, −121.866360531
36.5945029280001, −121.866360531
36.5945029280001, −121.851862108
36.5872707780001, −121.851862108.
401
36.2034528880001, −115.073249953
36.3992515790001, −115.073249953
36.3992515790001, −114.91920859
36.2034528880001, −114.91920859.
402
36.4668551030001, −117.094718948
37.9076912670001, −117.094718948
37.9076912670001, −115.3004082
36.4668551030001, −115.3004082.
403
42.919235051, −71.671337464
42.952654138, −71.671337464
42.952654138, −71.616026331
42.919235051, −71.616026331.
404
39.6829375310001, −75.600492457
39.6923952360001, −75.600492457
39.6923952360001, −75.593307553
39.6829375310001, −75.593307553.
405
43.10473267, −70.797901469
43.107704771, −70.797901469
43.107704771, −70.7919169979999
43.10473267, −70.7919169979999.
406
33.568962911, −86.751872966
33.57308195, −86.751872966
33.57308195, −86.748821474
33.568962911, −86.748821474.
407
61.599438526, −149.390055835
61.606721914, −149.390055835
61.606721914, −149.35973238
61.599438526, −149.35973238.
408
36.013579803, −115.202476334
36.020786485, −115.202476334
36.020786485, −115.198858962
36.013579803, −115.198858962.
409
45.079114062, −93.178546539
45.108075439, −93.178546539
45.108075439, −93.147375066
45.079114062, −93.147375066.
410
33.7189514350001, −84.361650185
33.7254539750001, −84.361650185
33.7254539750001, −84.356222295
33.7189514350001, −84.356222295.
411
44.080835533, −70.290540358
44.094617619, −70.290540358
44.094617619, −70.272902712
44.080835533, −70.272902712.
412
42.546251763, −71.589424731
42.551133712, −71.589424731
42.551133712, −71.5781617369999
42.546251763, −71.5781617369999.
413
44.8040301450001, −68.8467649249999
44.8172629220001, −68.8467649249999
44.8172629220001, −68.8068680369999
44.8040301450001, −68.8068680369999.
414
30.354065667, −91.146045237
30.360422127, −91.146045237
30.360422127, −91.1353207689999
30.354065667, −91.1353207689999.
415
31.4025019330001, −92.335343385
31.4795765740001, −92.335343385
31.4795765740001, −92.245795576
31.4025019330001, −92.245795576.
416
40.0877668460001, −83.068853255
40.0907737950001, −83.068853255
40.0907737950001, −83.066002311
40.0877668460001, −83.066002311.
417
44.022196352, −121.133291583
44.029392756, −121.133291583
44.029392756, −121.123271772
44.022196352, −121.123271772.
418
30.173439579, −97.674627878
30.178958121, −97.674627878
30.178958121, −97.668747043
30.173439579, −97.668747043.
419
38.5445306760001, −75.0682735199999
38.5510787900001, −75.0682735199999
38.5510787900001, −75.0589773919999
38.5445306760001, −75.0589773919999.
420
44.1016551610001, −121.17360693
44.3272733540001, −121.17360693
44.3272733540001, −121.058161787
44.1016551610001, −121.058161787.
421
46.827120683, −100.725445186
46.832772324, −100.725445186
46.832772324, −100.715045706
46.827120683, −100.715045706.
422
44.392304805, −70.947124474
44.402273905, −70.947124474
44.402273905, −70.928234819
44.392304805, −70.928234819.
423
47.549068751, −122.684072241
47.556350796, −122.684072241
47.556350796, −122.678571789
47.549068751, −122.678571789.
424
33.4426391850001, −112.60836981
33.4939449270001, −112.60836981
33.4939449270001, −112.590831261
33.4426391850001, −112.590831261.
425
41.788965498, −80.0518139389999
41.798009108, −80.0518139389999
41.798009108, −80.0425795319999
41.788965498, −80.0425795319999.
426
44.708559069, −123.281143191
44.72023512, −123.281143191
44.72023512, −123.259641857
44.708559069, −123.259641857.
427
41.056686573, −96.34425821
41.096850084, −96.34425821
41.096850084, −96.326681639
41.056686573, −96.326681639.
428
39.2163393430001, −86.1037530039999
39.3929446850001, −86.1037530039999
39.3929446850001, −85.9785740709999
39.2163393430001, −85.9785740709999.
429
31.3661086110001, −92.4083963209999
31.3916242780001, −92.4083963209999
31.3916242780001, −92.3608840609999
31.3661086110001, −92.3608840609999.
430
31.6146126890001, −98.960277256
31.6667772080001, −98.960277256
31.6667772080001, −98.901021764
31.6146126890001, −98.901021764.
431
41.607753723, −71.505549174
41.623638419, −71.505549174
41.623638419, −71.491180453
41.607753723, −71.491180453.
432
47.6525289910001, −98.9417105379999
48.0636008830001, −98.9417105379999
48.0636008830001, −98.6003789309999
47.6525289910001, −98.6003789309999.
433
35.5952678190001, −95.22118754
35.7838291280001, −95.22118754
35.7838291280001, −95.126697455
35.5952678190001, −95.126697455.
434
41.9394829350001, −72.670901858
41.9441994120001, −72.670901858
41.9441994120001, −72.661211157
41.9394829350001, −72.661211157.
435
34.8124732220001, −92.3897548209999
34.9614877180001, −92.3897548209999
34.9614877180001, −92.2396274969999
34.8124732220001, −92.2396274969999.
436
30.3094558060001, −97.768694553
30.3273409100001, −97.768694553
30.3273409100001, −97.756391927
30.3094558060001, −97.756391927.
437
33.774194279, −95.606477742
33.832753059, −95.606477742
33.832753059, −95.526066382
33.774194279, −95.526066382.
438
32.5353248810001, −93.475517374
32.5878534930001, −93.475517374
32.5878534930001, −93.320012082
32.5353248810001, −93.320012082.
439
41.328015147, −72.192567648
41.334274179, −72.192567648
41.334274179, −72.18300523
41.328015147, −72.18300523.
440
43.2872218000001, −116.090973157
43.3084647600001, −116.090973157
43.3084647600001, −116.006279152
43.2872218000001, −116.006279152.
441
41.5296110640001, −83.029247488
41.5564763520001, −83.029247488
41.5564763520001, −83.011583492
41.5296110640001, −83.011583492.
442
44.0771040870001, −103.272190023
44.0820854380001, −103.272190023
44.0820854380001, −103.262202287
44.0771040870001, −103.262202287.
443
41.1628317710001, −81.1929117339999
41.2310363250001, −81.1929117339999
41.2310363250001, −80.97584481
41.1628317710001, −80.97584481.
444
46.07222877, −94.558733336
46.331943757, −94.558733336
46.331943757, −94.325692646
46.07222877, −94.325692646.
445
39.34839557, −82.9650961519999
39.360752962, −82.9650961519999
39.360752962, −82.9383779209999
39.34839557, −82.9383779209999.
446
41.29766305, −73.975066263
41.324571403, −73.975066263
41.324571403, −73.930650098
41.29766305, −73.930650098.
447
30.2132250780001, −97.335768978
30.310193057, −97.335768978
30.310193057, −97.247469425
30.2132250780001, −97.247469425.
448
30.310456754, −89.821504134
30.336315048, −89.821504134
30.336315048, −89.7963621059999
30.310456754, −89.7963621059999.
449
43.922486604, −90.276809935
43.932735952, −90.276809935
43.932735952, −90.261339487
43.922486604, −90.261339487.
450
45.4105970370001, −122.564234834
45.4146313790001, −122.564234834
45.4146313790001, −122.546020519
45.4105970370001, −122.546020519.
451
30.192979226, −91.136406361
30.209958464, −91.136406361
30.209958464, −91.120742129
30.192979226, −91.120742129.
452
33.671756665, −86.017370951
33.757794604, −86.017370951
33.757794604, −85.882188551
33.671756665, −85.882188551.
453
40.2117159210001, −75.432393416
40.2164501770001, −75.432393416
40.2164501770001, −75.42374491
40.2117159210001, −75.42374491.
454
33.6765084310001, −89.7534024129999
33.7542460250001, −89.7534024129999
33.7542460250001, −89.6202355929999
33.6765084310001, −89.6202355929999.
455
39.378532207, −79.708317675
39.454188743, −79.708317675
39.454188743, −79.639802717
39.378532207, −79.639802717.
456
42.27527302, −85.3763242809999
42.336654723, −85.3763242809999
42.336654723, −85.2764495459999
42.27527302, −85.2764495459999.
457
34.222785926, −84.1147041419999
34.225953578, −84.1147041419999
34.225953578, −84.1115279319999
34.222785926, −84.1115279319999.
458
46.8328736340001, −92.1598417499999
46.8345283600001, −92.1598417499999
46.8345283600001, −92.1578269679999
46.8328736340001, −92.1578269679999.
459
43.14072293, −115.657766227
43.147995984, −115.657766227
43.147995984, −115.647820427
43.14072293, −115.647820427.
460
38.949813614, −79.985745343
38.958420468, −79.985745343
38.958420468, −79.972014372
38.949813614, −79.972014372.
461
31.3824479420001, −92.317091139
31.4098514070001, −92.317091139
31.4098514070001, −92.279692875
31.3824479420001, −92.279692875.
462
44.4989956200001, −73.174626073
44.5216654230001, −73.174626073
44.5216654230001, −73.151341101
44.4989956200001, −73.151341101.
463
33.05649478, −111.387806148
33.118281303, −111.387806148
33.118281303, −111.318954206
33.05649478, −111.318954206.
464
36.276929619, −115.061711815
36.307014017, −115.061711815
36.307014017, −115.024997297
36.276929619, −115.024997297.
465
36.9652916110001, −78.019676053
37.1220791840001, −78.019676053
37.1220791840001, −77.838557255
36.9652916110001, −77.838557255.
466
35.177556168, −94.342568303
35.36254474, −94.342568303
35.36254474, −94.026321036
35.177556168, −94.026321036.
467
40.3805917540001, −76.740923494
40.4828843550001, −76.740923494
40.4828843550001, −76.526125382
40.3805917540001, −76.526125382.
468
33.7233962760001, −85.799971241
33.7412047100001, −85.799971241
33.7412047100001, −85.77787227
33.7233962760001, −85.77787227.
469
32.8348369830001, −98.0657312119999
32.8906953370001, −98.0657312119999
32.8906953370001, −97.9964332349999
32.8348369830001, −97.9964332349999.
470
32.775847904, −97.4626718379999
32.781682325, −97.4626718379999
32.781682325, −97.4528046649999
32.775847904, −97.4528046649999.
471
38.1716157600001, −84.921448944
38.1966283680001, −84.921448944
38.1966283680001, −84.894209462
38.1716157600001, −84.894209462.
472
18.002735849, −66.5139236319999
18.025884249, −66.5139236319999
18.025884249, −66.4942110159999
18.002735849, −66.4942110159999.
473
21.2573388270001, −157.811868495
21.2696069680001, −157.811868495
21.2696069680001, −157.793708924
21.2573388270001, −157.793708924.
474
33.910428789, −84.5361533929999
33.916196229, −84.5361533929999
33.916196229, −84.522565546
33.910428789, −84.522565546.
475
40.959663633, −98.301445179
40.964149849, −98.301445179
40.964149849, −98.296290336
40.959663633, −98.296290336.
476
40.515397589, −98.298239402
40.567785704, −98.298239402
40.567785704, −98.259993615
40.515397589, −98.259993615.
477
13.471680227, 144.807392696
13.476445623, 144.807392696
13.476445623, 144.812949999
13.471680227, 144.812949999.
478
30.4045289490001, −89.065284316
30.4205257120001, −89.065284316
30.4205257120001, −89.059168989
30.4045289490001, −89.059168989.
479
30.520223183, −90.417497467
30.526889408, −90.417497467
30.526889408, −90.406882911
30.520223183, −90.406882911.
480
39.528072455, −76.1100913129999
39.536739552, −76.1100913129999
39.536739552, −76.0982416589999
39.528072455, −76.0982416589999.
481
46.6059564510001, −111.975646726
46.6106942060001, −111.975646726
46.6106942060001, −111.967693583
46.6059564510001, −111.967693583.
482
40.4376721520001, −78.4170869339999
40.4407479890001, −78.4170869339999
40.4407479890001, −78.4124497679999
40.4376721520001, −78.4124497679999.
483
43.659487912, −70.674869746
43.67992728, −70.674869746
43.67992728, −70.654823081
43.659487912, −70.654823081.
484
39.7424976190001, −86.230956444
39.7462615480001, −86.230956444
39.7462615480001, −86.225390797
39.7424976190001, −86.225390797.
485
35.3048305680001, −120.756679866
35.3717978880001, −120.756679866
35.3717978880001, −120.664040578
35.3048305680001, −120.664040578.
486
35.594877598, −88.916399526
35.601416549, −88.916399526
35.601416549, −88.909521524
35.594877598, −88.909521524.
487
29.9497813040001, −90.0120117979999
29.9740232620001, −90.0120117979999
29.9740232620001, −89.9987827089999
29.9497813040001, −89.9987827089999.
488
38.8833909860001, −81.8464996549999
38.905765642, −81.8464996549999
38.905765642, −81.8170444439999
38.8833909860001, −81.8170444439999.
489
39.01630591, −95.6872730109999
39.022374526, −95.6872730109999
39.022374526, −95.6797306829999
39.01630591, −95.6797306829999.
490
36.4178126140001, −82.493381518
36.4246402130001, −82.493381518
36.4246402130001, −82.484291574
36.4178126140001, −82.484291574.
491
21.3142785630001, −158.069986235
21.3240454770001, −158.069986235
21.3240454770001, −158.056465611
21.3142785630001, −158.056465611.
492
39.764279425, −85.527190456
39.778947386, −85.527190456
39.778947386, −85.508361982
39.764279425, −85.508361982.
493
44.0647301270001, −122.982252253
44.0670417360001, −122.982252253
44.0670417360001, −122.973786312
44.0647301270001, −122.973786312.
494
42.766389845, −84.576207556
42.769800145, −84.576207556
42.769800145, −84.567413358
42.766389845, −84.567413358.
495
32.270748628, −106.939138534
32.280280019, −106.939138534
32.280280019, −106.930519974
32.270748628, −106.930519974.
496
40.2658142980001, −74.748095306
40.2734112650001, −74.748095306
40.2734112650001, −74.740257715
40.2658142980001, −74.740257715.
497
35.0150424290001, −97.239011654
35.0295356340001, −97.239011654
35.0295356340001, −97.223711786
35.0150424290001, −97.223711786.
498
40.8356006820001, −96.758767006
40.8404020610001, −96.758767006
40.8404020610001, −96.749174181
40.8356006820001, −96.749174181.
499
33.7812372280001, −118.067627933
33.8016134000001, −118.067627933
33.8016134000001, −118.032767969
33.7812372280001, −118.032767969.
500
32.8597198360001, −83.6073436619999
32.8630748340001, −83.6073436619999
32.8630748340001, −83.6039690959999
32.8597198360001, −83.6039690959999.
501
39.636663701, −92.534704178
39.721017576, −92.534704178
39.721017576, −92.464676968
39.636663701, −92.464676968.
502
41.267041534, −88.7046910729999
41.305913573, −88.7046910729999
41.305913573, −88.6608137729999
41.267041534, −88.6608137729999.
503
29.426494618, −98.3843199139999
29.437625079, −98.3843199139999
29.437625079, −98.3746227379999
29.426494618, −98.3746227379999.
504
39.6487077620001, −81.847046613
39.6734994180001, −81.847046613
39.6734994180001, −81.831592537
39.6487077620001, −81.831592537.
505
44.9048285740001, −123.003047071
44.9170262920001, −123.003047071
44.9170262920001, −122.995194144
44.9048285740001, −122.995194144.
506
41.1829986970001, −96.49160163
41.2049128990001, −96.49160163
41.2049128990001, −96.425755553
41.1829986970001, −96.425755553.
507
43.7601885300001, −98.047917175
43.7638707560001, −98.047917175
43.7638707560001, −98.039102093
43.7601885300001, −98.039102093.
508
32.4031817050001, −86.263631114
32.4082452810001, −86.263631114
32.4082452810001, −86.2557011
32.4031817050001, −86.2557011.
509
36.1649285010001, −78.833628877
36.2232305700001, −78.833628877
36.2232305700001, −78.75963967
36.1649285010001, −78.75963967.
510
37.81235573, −94.3097107569999
37.828354979, −94.3097107569999
37.828354979, −94.2731087829999
37.81235573, −94.2731087829999.
511
36.7579974450001, −94.387727354
36.8328900980001, −94.387727354
36.8328900980001, −94.326852463
36.7579974450001, −94.326852463.
512
42.5267790020001, −71.08203514
42.5603767370001, −71.08203514
42.5603767370001, −71.063291358
42.5267790020001, −71.063291358.
513
39.4912259380001, −76.8607346809999
39.5046787930001, −76.8607346809999
39.5046787930001, −76.8318924949999
39.4912259380001, −76.8318924949999.
514
46.1080148720001, −123.964495138
46.1501140200001, −123.964495138
46.1501140200001, −123.92502133
46.1080148720001, −123.92502133.
515
17.9872158480001, −66.333706182
18.0695436220001, −66.333706182
18.0695436220001, −66.240579825
17.9872158480001, −66.240579825.
516
33.780577163, −82.2952040439999
33.807394959, −82.2952040439999
33.807394959, −82.26292394
33.780577163, −82.26292394.
517
46.6005921770001, −112.190250013
46.6592451280001, −112.190250013
46.6592451280001, −112.094472322
46.6005921770001, −112.094472322.
518
39.423596381, −76.51081268
39.439023401, −76.51081268
39.439023401, −76.496156333
39.423596381, −76.496156333.
519
46.220510372, −111.635118944
46.337394743, −111.635118944
46.337394743, −111.504109039
46.220510372, −111.504109039.
520
42.1437413450001, −104.948278987
42.4788211760001, −104.948278987
42.4788211760001, −104.703889369
42.1437413450001, −104.703889369.
521
35.656031539, −95.375341077
35.664828514, −95.375341077
35.664828514, −95.369972431
35.656031539, −95.369972431.
522
36.0958233040001, −86.7615681459999
36.1023428190001, −86.7615681459999
36.1023428190001, −86.7562354
36.0958233040001, −86.7562354.
523
40.9786701780001, −80.325759923
40.9800945050001, −80.325759923
40.9800945050001, −80.323839076
40.9786701780001, −80.323839076.
524
35.2622862810001, −97.4851407689999
35.2681205800001, −97.4851407689999
35.2681205800001, −97.4768490759999
35.2622862810001, −97.4768490759999.
525
33.6157453390001, −84.3128273029999
33.6193347170001, −84.3128273029999
33.6193347170001, −84.3074772369999
33.6157453390001, −84.3074772369999.
526
33.4618850200001, −111.969623276
33.4727567890001, −111.969623276
33.4727567890001, −111.952212294
33.4618850200001, −111.952212294.
527
32.6578846960001, −111.495190228
32.6688813430001, −111.495190228
32.6688813430001, −111.481955968
32.6578846960001, −111.481955968.
528
35.804791455, −78.715406802
35.81355058, −78.715406802
35.81355058, −78.707216709
35.804791455, −78.707216709.
529
39.8002476090001, −82.9570252779999
39.8098625370001, −82.9570252779999
39.8098625370001, −82.94567622
39.8002476090001, −82.94567622.
530
35.3683435470001, −106.65493619
35.3777845520001, −106.65493619
35.3777845520001, −106.648878128
35.3683435470001, −106.648878128.
531
39.627394171, −75.6147487649999
39.639382105, −75.6147487649999
39.639382105, −75.6006753489999
39.627394171, −75.6006753489999.
532
43.9963073710001, −92.433533997
43.9977499120001, −92.433533997
43.9977499120001, −92.428949024
43.9963073710001, −92.428949024.
533
44.7463851480001, −93.12881708
44.7488195410001, −93.12881708
44.7488195410001, −93.125978095
44.7463851480001, −93.125978095.
534
32.284284584, −86.3990584479999
32.295043619, −86.3990584479999
32.295043619, −86.392323549
32.284284584, −86.392323549.
535
32.847954014, −97.3530685539999
32.861579522, −97.3530685539999
32.861579522, −97.3432426939999
32.847954014, −97.3432426939999.
536
37.030464438, −113.549169301
37.037578732, −113.549169301
37.037578732, −113.544639
37.030464438, −113.544639.
537
38.7817203050001, −97.642976177
38.7897490390001, −97.642976177
38.7897490390001, −97.633242512
38.7817203050001, −97.633242512.
538
37.49085725, −77.3171608389999
37.498350787, −77.3171608389999
37.498350787, −77.3077128829999
37.49085725, −77.3077128829999.
539
35.5622835610001, −106.10286838
35.5754168170001, −106.10286838
35.5754168170001, −106.071788538
35.5622835610001, −106.071788538.
540
40.1177429000001, −74.044914025
40.1299027480001, −74.044914025
40.1299027480001, −74.030081087
40.1177429000001, −74.030081087.
541
39.576923987, −85.816200007
39.580378098, −85.816200007
39.580378098, −85.807738311
39.576923987, −85.807738311.
542
32.519546491, −111.340100133
32.527987523, −111.340100133
32.527987523, −111.325196238
32.519546491, −111.325196238.
543
43.5730602740001, −96.6930749859999
43.5983048400001, −96.6930749859999
43.5983048400001, −96.6759672029999
43.5730602740001, −96.6759672029999.
544
25.9569713660001, −80.31070355
25.9681289730001, −80.31070355
25.9681289730001, −80.298558922
25.9569713660001, −80.298558922.
545
38.131120233, −89.745599204
38.190313565, −89.745599204
38.190313565, −89.703313722
38.131120233, −89.703313722.
546
40.1880831510001, −75.561069736
40.1918052850001, −75.561069736
40.1918052850001, −75.552580986
40.1880831510001, −75.552580986.
547
39.8160693520001, −89.673473292
39.8306927080001, −89.673473292
39.8306927080001, −89.664369884
39.8160693520001, −89.664369884.
548
37.2490490960001, −93.395772062
37.2571610570001, −93.395772062
37.2571610570001, −93.384982394
37.2490490960001, −93.384982394.
549
45.5372774640001, −94.060060866
45.5419761270001, −94.060060866
45.5419761270001, −94.051145099
45.5372774640001, −94.051145099.
550
45.5645070200001, −94.179496597
45.5652420030001, −94.179496597
45.5652420030001, −94.175345802
45.5645070200001, −94.175345802.
551
36.8110053980001, −75.9894743689999
36.8227442360001, −75.9894743689999
36.8227442360001, −75.9659250589999
36.8110053980001, −75.9659250589999.
552
41.3451753470001, −72.293373883
41.3813569730001, −72.293373883
41.3813569730001, −72.253317667
41.3451753470001, −72.253317667.
553
36.285694226, −95.309758124
36.300130892, −95.309758124
36.300130892, −95.278470963
36.285694226, −95.278470963.
554
43.2708696780001, −71.1288204539999
43.2848092560001, −71.1288204539999
43.2848092560001, −71.1155219099999
43.2708696780001, −71.1155219099999.
555
44.4965394450001, −73.168838485
44.5034995140001, −73.168838485
44.5034995140001, −73.160140825
44.4965394450001, −73.160140825.
556
44.442952367, −72.960320316
44.500157333, −72.960320316
44.500157333, −72.836710736
44.442952367, −72.836710736.
557
38.546453582, −92.080098162
38.556080633, −92.080098162
38.556080633, −92.055385571
38.546453582, −92.055385571.
558
19.696784098, −155.052848025
19.715068265, −155.052848025
19.715068265, −155.023635733
19.696784098, −155.023635733.
559
36.8796769900001, −90.310798339
36.9046015270001, −90.310798339
36.9046015270001, −90.255783907
36.8796769900001, −90.255783907.
560
39.441791832, −79.6837218599999
39.464465755, −79.6837218599999
39.464465755, −79.6475069149999
39.441791832, −79.6475069149999.
561
34.9067538520001, −85.070727678
34.9506642170001, −85.070727678
34.9506642170001, −85.045031881
34.9067538520001, −85.045031881.
562
35.814732012, −88.7542933719999
35.923989023, −88.7542933719999
35.923989023, −88.6437411839999
35.814732012, −88.6437411839999.
563
36.006276454, −86.516501852
36.027518046, −86.516501852
36.027518046, −86.492335009
36.006276454, −86.492335009.
564
44.067527784, −103.325214534
44.0784787400001, −103.325214534
44.0784787400001, −103.287313773
44.067527784, −103.287313773.
565
43.0833898060001, −72.4562338169999
43.0889316040001, −72.4562338169999
43.0889316040001, −72.4474520169999
43.0833898060001, −72.4474520169999.
566
37.2459669690001, −87.264708566
37.3155568590001, −87.264708566
37.3155568590001, −87.143105234
37.2459669690001, −87.143105234.
567
39.3487643610001, −81.448406511
39.3590411380001, −81.448406511
39.3590411380001, −81.437125672
39.3487643610001, −81.437125672.
568
43.230983715, −78.987693814
43.244098627, −78.987693814
43.244098627, −78.957641634
43.230983715, −78.957641634.
569
38.414110285, −90.4008158519999
38.51933631, −90.4008158519999
38.51933631, −89.8873624389999
38.414110285, −89.8873624389999.
570
43.1058774480001, −78.9722862359999
43.1213964380001, −78.9722862359999
43.1213964380001, −78.9269798539999
43.1058774480001, −78.9269798539999.
571
38.8465829040001, −76.9406129989999
38.8511023340001, −76.9406129989999
38.8511023340001, −76.9338436309999
38.8465829040001, −76.9338436309999.
572
36.799812242, −76.299262352
36.806581273, −76.299262352
36.806581273, −76.291663588
36.799812242, −76.291663588.
573
36.824516203, −76.2911109619999
36.82654125, −76.2911109619999
36.82654125, −76.2870895149999
36.824516203, −76.2870895149999.
574
31.0389879680001, −87.076766692
31.0572498550001, −87.076766692
31.0572498550001, −87.053283792
31.0389879680001, −87.053283792.
575
30.486569113, −86.966743959
30.523283452, −86.966743959
30.523283452, −86.940434633
30.486569113, −86.940434633.
576
31.4033835660001, −87.057347927
31.4251772980001, −87.057347927
31.4251772980001, −87.022039826
31.4033835660001, −87.022039826.
577
30.417555556, −86.9026103099999
30.432862018, −86.9026103099999
30.432862018, −86.8837180249999
30.417555556, −86.8837180249999.
578
30.599791442, −86.950876547
30.619098213, −86.950876547
30.619098213, −86.9265002429999
30.599791442, −86.9265002429999.
579
30.5546267450001, −87.8164634139999
30.5687059560001, −87.8164634139999
30.5687059560001, −87.8015463849999
30.5546267450001, −87.8015463849999.
580
30.617963515, −87.148395847
30.632703528, −87.148395847
30.632703528, −87.131141293
30.617963515, −87.131141293.
581
30.499075884, −87.6626447849999
30.520323757, −87.6626447849999
30.520323757, −87.6311911829999
30.499075884, −87.6311911829999.
582
30.338386572, −87.5495986079999
30.351971261, −87.5495986079999
30.351971261, −87.5332728869999
30.338386572, −87.5332728869999.
583
35.3381397860001, −89.875828209
35.3503400000001, −89.875828209
35.3503400000001, −89.848676466
35.3381397860001, −89.848676466.
584
36.535830635, −76.292027831
36.580439287, −76.292027831
36.580439287, −76.243039727
36.535830635, −76.243039727.
585
33.891359251, −118.072946629
33.894991619, −118.072946629
33.894991619, −118.067394654
33.891359251, −118.067394654.
586
38.3285014350001, −76.4841629759999
38.3442330700001, −76.4841629759999
38.3442330700001, −76.4639193759999
38.3285014350001, −76.4639193759999.
587
43.077684909, −73.823802707
43.082196982, −73.823802707
43.082196982, −73.818216923
43.077684909, −73.818216923.
588
18.4266523270001, −66.188700669
18.4276186450001, −66.188700669
18.4276186450001, −66.187788338
18.4266523270001, −66.187788338.
589
35.086256399, −90.1438097929999
35.090263498, −90.1438097929999
35.090263498, −90.138466962
35.086256399, −90.138466962.
590
42.4740966470001, −71.292022302
42.4801271500001, −71.292022302
42.4801271500001, −71.286586841
42.4740966470001, −71.286586841.
591
41.0982621430001, −95.9280611469999
41.1364452900001, −95.9280611469999
41.1364452900001, −95.8780365989999
41.0982621430001, −95.8780365989999.
592
32.7452306660001, −117.200217282
32.7528565660001, −117.200217282
32.7528565660001, −117.192605845
32.7452306660001, −117.192605845.
593
32.783231948, −88.8532491779999
32.814254912, −88.8532491779999
32.814254912, −88.8124127399999
32.783231948, −88.8124127399999.
594
30.37231968, −87.429057305
30.394059181, −87.429057305
30.394059181, −87.396697185
30.37231968, −87.396697185.
595
48.1708872200001, −122.648186576
48.2120255960001, −122.648186576
48.2120255960001, −122.615173447
48.1708872200001, −122.615173447.
596
30.338350216, −81.889129182
30.377897748, −81.889129182
30.377897748, −81.84492402
30.338350216, −81.84492402.
597
70.488162834, −149.926235024
70.509905742, −149.926235024
70.509905742, −149.855544128
70.488162834, −149.855544128.
598
43.098523582, −116.31428757
43.37173967, −116.31428757
43.37173967, −115.957075202
43.098523582, −115.957075202.
599
38.0231563570001, −122.170412652
38.0284346090001, −122.170412652
38.0284346090001, −122.162692799
38.0231563570001, −122.162692799.
600
21.979075729, −159.787895529
22.073530219, −159.787895529
22.073530219, −159.750843749
21.979075729, −159.750843749.
601
37.709457716, −121.91515472
37.747451286, −121.91515472
37.747451286, −121.871676143
37.709457716, −121.871676143.
602
28.2124892410001, −80.6189925959999
28.2719774110001, −80.6189925959999
28.2719774110001, −80.5967212699999
28.2124892410001, −80.5967212699999.
603
21.3812730710001, −157.972837384
21.3857579590001, −157.972837384
21.3857579590001, −157.969830103
21.3812730710001, −157.969830103.
604
43.0830098340001, −70.8265315799999
43.095680228, −70.8265315799999
43.095680228, −70.8118178159999
43.0830098340001, −70.8118178159999.
605
38.8665872170001, −77.06187689
38.8804333410001, −77.06187689
38.8804333410001, −77.0457741439999
38.8665872170001, −77.0457741439999.
606
38.805877954, −104.720171001
38.838836254, −104.720171001
38.838836254, −104.673427575
38.805877954, −104.673427575.
607
40.9140682660001, −74.590780383
40.9956152640001, −74.590780383
40.9956152640001, −74.494014259
40.9140682660001, −74.494014259.
608
18.26752057, −65.759072139
18.26922761, −65.759072139
18.26922761, −65.757502273
18.26752057, −65.757502273.
609
37.495160689, −122.500638613
37.504255663, −122.500638613
37.504255663, −122.494186302
37.495160689, −122.494186302.
610
34.2702027120001, −92.13996888
34.3785932240001, −92.13996888
34.3785932240001, −92.033468658
34.2702027120001, −92.033468658.
611
18.2467234310001, −65.600381523
18.2570859030001, −65.600381523
18.2570859030001, −65.5822592889999
18.2467234310001, −65.5822592889999.
612
37.339590329, −104.173059108
37.644554428, −104.173059108
37.644554428, −103.576450075
37.339590329, −103.576450075.
613
40.489967456, −80.215160815
40.497923194, −80.215160815
40.497923194, −80.205677052
40.489967456, −80.205677052.
614
40.4899753650001, −80.215361211
40.4979311050001, −80.215361211
40.4979311050001, −80.205680084
40.4899753650001, −80.205680084.
615
19.580002141, −155.753584385
19.935340889, −155.753584385
19.935340889, −155.482149063
19.580002141, −155.482149063.
616
33.737668318, −80.5168304859999
33.849728431, −80.5168304859999
33.849728431, −80.4450008049999
33.737668318, −80.4450008049999.
617
38.887515787, −123.552272552
38.895551718, −123.552272552
38.895551718, −123.538718114
38.887515787, −123.538718114.
618
71.323665191, −156.649567453
71.336534761, −156.649567453
71.336534761, −156.601540334
71.323665191, −156.601540334.
619
45.57436111, −122.604832246
45.583315392, −122.604832246
45.583315392, −122.585382407
45.57436111, −122.585382407.
620
42.9087822710001, −71.4221747879999
43.0870732990001, −71.4221747879999
43.0870732990001, −70.722436956
42.9087822710001, −70.722436956.
621
36.594597106, −121.926941695
36.608467628, −121.926941695
36.608467628, −121.894607972
36.594597106, −121.894607972.
622
38.263930139, −104.386297178
38.360999196, −104.386297178
38.360999196, −104.275724057
38.263930139, −104.275724057.
623
38.290060253, −77.0671300829999
38.31683736, −77.0671300829999
38.31683736, −77.0170631189999
38.290060253, −77.0170631189999.
624
21.3139823400001, −157.992793478
21.3226045200001, −157.992793478
21.3226045200001, −157.982066252
21.3139823400001, −157.982066252.
625
41.5907533440001, −71.42348666
41.6007626130001, −71.42348666
41.6007626130001, −71.41187911
41.5907533440001, −71.41187911.
626
37.163382287, −80.5791188709999
37.207412609, −80.5791188709999
37.207412609, −80.5101282629999
37.163382287, −80.5101282629999.
627
18.5087916470001, −67.099861576
18.5101598370001, −67.099861576
18.5101598370001, −67.098621282
18.5087916470001, −67.098621282.
628
33.397278645, −94.4116859869999
33.464838472, −94.4116859869999
33.464838472, −94.3047919909999
33.397278645, −94.3047919909999.
629
44.9551877580001, −70.513638005
45.0169721250001, −70.513638005
45.0169721250001, −70.379987151
44.9551877580001, −70.379987151.
630
34.550284843, −86.7237782349999
34.710900354, −86.7237782349999
34.710900354, −86.5815630549999
34.550284843, −86.5815630549999.
631
39.4978523080001, −119.778804811
39.5024544730001, −119.778804811
39.5024544730001, −119.771926612
39.4978523080001, −119.771926612.
632
39.806889794, −82.949783742
39.819444408, −82.949783742
39.819444408, −82.937417355
39.806889794, −82.937417355.
633
38.1508457090001, −78.418005901
38.1586875990001, −78.418005901
38.1586875990001, −78.409329548
38.1508457090001, −78.409329548.
634
37.7110124880001, −120.921809782
37.7227924600001, −120.921809782
37.7227924600001, −120.9168393
37.7110124880001, −120.9168393.
635
32.5734846130001, −83.613041736
32.6644753900001, −83.613041736
32.6644753900001, −83.555394419
32.5734846130001, −83.555394419.
636
41.5101975790001, −90.566624136
41.5236820390001, −90.566624136
41.5236820390001, −90.515679261
41.5101975790001, −90.515679261.
637
39.816797712, −104.880637268
39.895272909, −104.880637268
39.895272909, −104.796958344
39.816797712, −104.796958344.
638
61.756264087, −166.062507434
61.799913075, −166.062507434
61.799913075, −165.913701567
61.756264087, −165.913701567.
639
43.2183336890001, −75.415282906
43.2263537340001, −75.415282906
43.2263537340001, −75.407014028
43.2183336890001, −75.407014028.
640
39.762626991, −94.904952104
39.769793541, −94.904952104
39.769793541, −94.897835881
39.762626991, −94.897835881.
641
31.3342942350001, −86.0977289259999
31.3453725330001, −86.0977289259999
31.3453725330001, −86.085558079
31.3342942350001, −86.085558079.
642
40.7838318330001, −111.959489583
40.7949147800001, −111.959489583
40.7949147800001, −111.953751907
40.7838318330001, −111.953751907.
643
32.8003673640001, −118.606292107
33.0377362220001, −118.606292107
33.0377362220001, −118.348994062
32.8003673640001, −118.348994062.
644
33.2121599560001, −119.582134532
33.29062044, −119.582134532
33.29062044, −119.418213784
33.2121599560001, −119.418213784.
645
33.7662733170001, −118.309268541
33.7813000720001, −118.309268541
33.7813000720001, −118.293960351
33.7662733170001, −118.293960351.
646
33.991029047, −119.635878529
33.997444378, −119.635878529
33.997444378, −119.625797527
33.991029047, −119.625797527.
647
30.458179069, −87.351595059
30.481667064, −87.351595059
30.481667064, −87.33104122
30.458179069, −87.33104122.
648
42.1757726720001, −90.4077834729999
42.284196191, −90.4077834729999
42.284196191, −90.2282601739999
42.1757726720001, −90.2282601739999.
649
32.119801635, −81.1976294959999
32.13505162, −81.1976294959999
32.13505162, −81.1837630719999
32.119801635, −81.1837630719999.
650
42.5925001000001, −115.678838723
42.8511848830001, −115.678838723
42.8511848830001, −115.453730372
42.5925001000001, −115.453730372.
651
42.8436851000001, −73.932567765
42.8583933770001, −73.932567765
42.8583933770001, −73.917508999
42.8436851000001, −73.917508999.
652
38.7843530810001, −104.551986183
38.8241032480001, −104.551986183
38.8241032480001, −104.48867271
38.7843530810001, −104.48867271.
653
38.524439918, −89.882877352
38.558372905, −89.882877352
38.558372905, −89.822791153
38.524439918, −89.822791153.
654
41.402655098, −75.6679100109999
41.405858099, −75.6679100109999
41.405858099, −75.6641420559999
41.402655098, −75.6641420559999.
655
36.9172616480001, −76.320386974
36.9234795100001, −76.320386974
36.9234795100001, −76.310890414
36.9172616480001, −76.310890414.
656
48.26740571, −122.645903557
48.3084303770001, −122.645903557
48.3084303770001, −122.555529232
48.26740571, −122.555529232.
657
42.5944000000001, −82.8511999999999
42.6303400000001, −82.8511999999999
42.6303400000001, −82.8038799999999
42.5944000000001, −82.8038799999999.
658
36.237894413, −119.894821285
36.250497998, −119.894821285
36.250497998, −119.869682611
36.237894413, −119.869682611.
659
60.1318770720001, −149.434449035
60.1347511870001, −149.434449035
60.1347511870001, −149.431802327
60.1318770720001, −149.431802327.
660
35.3214638170001, −77.997073351
35.368940398, −77.997073351
35.368940398, −77.930639313
35.3214638170001, −77.930639313.
661
33.9530524190001, −80.494323712
33.9954038330001, −80.494323712
33.9954038330001, −80.441564645
33.9530524190001, −80.441564645.
662
31.3582318730001, −85.856088056
31.3677829840001, −85.856088056
31.3677829840001, −85.84143832
31.3582318730001, −85.84143832.
663
33.956330827, −98.528137592
34.017271784, −98.528137592
34.017271784, −98.4775551939999
33.956330827, −98.4775551939999.
664
40.1402214060001, −120.185906595
40.2702161240001, −120.185906595
40.2702161240001, −120.074522544
40.1402214060001, −120.074522544.
665
32.585610327, −117.134530157
32.609517949, −117.134530157
32.609517949, −117.121573696
32.585610327, −117.121573696.
666
42.3865801530001, −96.377733927
42.3986855140001, −96.377733927
42.3986855140001, −96.3700527519999
42.3865801530001, −96.3700527519999.
667
31.2790279390001, −86.135253897
31.2921867390001, −86.135253897
31.2921867390001, −86.12630462
31.2790279390001, −86.12630462.
668
38.5971126590001, −97.891769008
38.7549420740001, −97.891769008
38.7549420740001, −97.731700038
38.5971126590001, −97.731700038.
669
32.665275626, −117.245056924
32.670651139, −117.245056924
32.670651139, −117.237168313
32.665275626, −117.237168313.
670
61.088401402, −155.608677328
61.118439774, −155.608677328
61.118439774, −155.558809541
61.088401402, −155.558809541.
671
39.8435710260001, −83.84415892
39.8525313250001, −83.84415892
39.8525313250001, −83.827046603
39.8435710260001, −83.827046603.
672
36.7792288150001, −76.316870104
36.7960357240001, −76.316870104
36.7960357240001, −76.304641406
36.7792288150001, −76.304641406.
673
38.5886024650001, −90.211334345
38.5936509870001, −90.211334345
38.5936509870001, −90.205345975
38.5886024650001, −90.205345975.
674
41.491597375, −74.096301663
41.493603532, −74.096301663
41.493603532, −74.09231513
41.491597375, −74.09231513.
675
41.4957478590001, −74.093456875
41.5071142860001, −74.093456875
41.5071142860001, −74.076705335
41.4957478590001, −74.076705335.
676
31.3556919110001, −86.019020089
31.3632965050001, −86.019020089
31.3632965050001, −86.009368893
31.3556919110001, −86.009368893.
677
38.5366165980001, −77.2462204349999
38.5562248710001, −77.2462204349999
38.5562248710001, −77.1968327609999
38.5366165980001, −77.1968327609999.
678
43.093425804, −76.13209217
43.105369507, −76.13209217
43.105369507, −76.117106326
43.093425804, −76.117106326.
679
31.1194852620001, −85.983038227
31.1263987840001, −85.983038227
31.1263987840001, −85.975130114
31.1194852620001, −85.975130114.
680
32.90171336, −115.830667748
33.00155658, −115.830667748
33.00155658, −115.679781585
32.90171336, −115.679781585.
681
62.864848431, −156.051764799
62.942582989, −156.051764799
62.942582989, −155.664968137
62.864848431, −155.664968137.
682
32.418304849, −113.683744005
32.912746437, −113.683744005
32.912746437, −112.306115231
32.418304849, −112.306115231.
683
38.9884924360001, −105.010363219
39.0140804660001, −105.010363219
39.0140804660001, −104.991241919
38.9884924360001, −104.991241919.
684
65.5522801760001, −168.013053723
65.5830229910001, −168.013053723
65.5830229910001, −167.912258962
65.5522801760001, −167.912258962.
685
35.384500001, −97.4236999999999
35.4497, −97.4236999999999
35.4497, −97.3502865429999
35.384500001, −97.3502865429999.
686
41.1825353090001, −75.443820828
41.2131432310001, −75.443820828
41.2131432310001, −75.411887882
41.1825353090001, −75.411887882.
687
41.58166204, −83.799456627
41.59389898, −83.799456627
41.59389898, −83.786432604
41.58166204, −83.786432604.
688
40.2607276530001, −112.497273742
40.5755204400001, −112.497273742
40.5755204400001, −112.279088302
40.2607276530001, −112.279088302.
689
31.2251159510001, −85.564347313
31.2323695170001, −85.564347313
31.2323695170001, −85.553616915
31.2251159510001, −85.553616915.
690
31.3753255780001, −81.894810498
31.6654206230001, −81.894810498
31.6654206230001, −81.52596687
31.3753255780001, −81.52596687.
691
38.231289094, −121.98346892
38.294736015, −121.98346892
38.294736015, −121.881230384
38.231289094, −121.881230384.
692
38.3228969080001, −121.933846122
38.3283655290001, −121.933846122
38.3283655290001, −121.915378048
38.3228969080001, −121.915378048.
693
21.351128573, −157.898178476
21.367812054, −157.898178476
21.367812054, −157.879404163
21.351128573, −157.879404163.
694
21.4642480200001, −158.148373992
21.5218182430001, −158.148373992
21.5218182430001, −157.901772211
21.4642480200001, −157.901772211.
695
43.1244504040001, −89.341539911
43.1368306370001, −89.341539911
43.1368306370001, −89.328466326
43.1244504040001, −89.328466326.
696
24.5433363610001, −81.811655077
24.5555222860001, −81.811655077
24.5555222860001, −81.797521593
24.5433363610001, −81.797521593.
697
24.5614307340001, −81.798222455
24.5672092190001, −81.798222455
24.5672092190001, −81.782640081
24.5614307340001, −81.782640081.
698
32.127406367, −110.955077243
32.133937736, −110.955077243
32.133937736, −110.945092818
32.127406367, −110.945092818.
699
36.2121647440001, −95.878742446
36.2203832320001, −95.878742446
36.2203832320001, −95.868966625
36.2121647440001, −95.868966625.
700
45.07910944, −93.181911062
45.104247148, −93.181911062
45.104247148, −93.166136656
45.07910944, −93.166136656.
701
29.953597589, −85.6870879419999
30.141953697, −85.6870879419999
30.141953697, −85.444996611
29.953597589, −85.444996611.
702
38.983678555, −76.5010465079999
38.992477092, −76.5010465079999
38.992477092, −76.4868322629999
38.983678555, −76.4868322629999.
703
21.469739594, −158.057058607
21.479496623, −158.057058607
21.479496623, −158.050204602
21.469739594, −158.050204602.
704
38.750330283, −104.304283339
38.795708158, −104.304283339
38.795708158, −104.298582551
38.750330283, −104.298582551.
705
38.9545078850001, −104.910763947
39.0421097770001, −104.910763947
39.0421097770001, −104.830835276
38.9545078850001, −104.830835276.
706
33.2114718620001, −117.39895734
33.2146081990001, −117.39895734
33.2146081990001, −117.395706525
33.2114718620001, −117.395706525.
707
40.339366355, −114.13239866
41.187663286, −114.13239866
41.187663286, −112.775026182
40.339366355, −112.775026182.
708
36.3075026230001, −97.932652751
36.3645349300001, −97.932652751
36.3645349300001, −97.890961956
36.3075026230001, −97.890961956.
709
34.5107894400001, −120.645844615
34.9069803380001, −120.645844615
34.9069803380001, −120.439765984
34.5107894400001, −120.439765984.
710
43.125429819, −75.5932489149999
43.128384246, −75.5932489149999
43.128384246, −75.5892130629999
43.125429819, −75.5892130629999.
711
18.093746783, −65.5171222009999
18.099320238, −65.5171222009999
18.099320238, −65.5081834699999
18.093746783, −65.5081834699999.
712
43.9198868560001, −90.281512146
44.2491740180001, −90.281512146
44.2491740180001, −89.9961840639999
43.9198868560001, −89.9961840639999.
713
42.308018614, −85.261730616
42.319058737, −85.261730616
42.319058737, −85.241088866
42.308018614, −85.241088866.
714
43.1194738070001, −87.9811739899999
43.1294331440001, −87.9811739899999
43.1294331440001, −87.969765633
43.1194738070001, −87.969765633.
715
21.444134852, −158.193880164
21.449106118, −158.193880164
21.449106118, −158.188834873
21.444134852, −158.188834873.
716
33.30623532, −116.726204555
33.348258648, −116.726204555
33.348258648, −116.681746107
33.30623532, −116.681746107.
717
40.416741642, −74.074863319
40.428227856, −74.074863319
40.428227856, −74.066019589
40.416741642, −74.066019589.
718
42.715762833, −73.715197659
42.723757367, −73.715197659
42.723757367, −73.7014418059999
42.715762833, −73.7014418059999.
719
38.131610059, −76.4415151439999
38.158782096, −76.4415151439999
38.158782096, −76.4141914209999
38.131610059, −76.4141914209999.
720
29.9448494910001, −90.0376652149999
29.9527562370001, −90.0376652149999
29.9527562370001, −90.028618848
29.9448494910001, −90.028618848.
721
39.905374947, −113.701870713
40.419222199, −113.701870713
40.419222199, −112.723055564
39.905374947, −112.723055564.
722
41.3164009720001, −74.104566558
41.4138497160001, −74.104566558
41.4138497160001, −73.950569356
41.3164009720001, −73.950569356.
723
42.1732117120001, −72.560346443
42.2183966200001, −72.560346443
42.2183966200001, −72.513149263
42.1732117120001, −72.513149263.
724
21.4548202730001, −158.05113405
21.4906567190001, −158.05113405
21.4906567190001, −158.023893229
21.4548202730001, −158.023893229.
725
47.6996152880001, −117.582780473
47.7046436220001, −117.582780473
47.7046436220001, −117.571913796
47.6996152880001, −117.571913796.
726
32.3256631690001, −106.751912813
33.9110868210001, −106.751912813
33.9110868210001, −106.097200035
32.3256631690001, −106.097200035.
727
38.7024149040001, −93.5961699699999
38.7611248150001, −93.5961699699999
38.7611248150001, −93.530993696
38.7024149040001, −93.530993696.
728
35.403434766, −97.615579224
35.411418204, −97.615579224
35.411418204, −97.607653269
35.403434766, −97.607653269.
729
30.5215171080001, −88.98512068
30.5592917870001, −88.98512068
30.5592917870001, −88.952736979
30.5215171080001, −88.952736979.
730
39.7790113880001, −84.122505244
39.8514988460001, −84.122505244
39.8514988460001, −84.013795999
39.7790113880001, −84.013795999.
731
28.235254233, −98.748507381
28.257299957, −98.748507381
28.257299957, −98.699312525
28.235254233, −98.699312525.
732
34.8723464400001, −116.88720812
34.9011810040001, −116.88720812
34.9011810040001, −116.849270991
34.8723464400001, −116.849270991.
733
37.211273261, −76.4914782399999
37.220744848, −76.4914782399999
37.220744848, −76.4804938719999
37.211273261, −76.4804938719999.
734
41.2592384490001, −80.6956297689999
41.2720857920001, −80.6956297689999
41.2720857920001, −80.6669307879999
41.2592384490001, −80.6669307879999.
735
64.7319686270001, −147.051773314
64.8134110040001, −147.051773314
64.8134110040001, −146.755123322
64.7319686270001, −146.755123322.
736
32.765238373, −114.588551663
33.551544978, −114.588551663
33.551544978, −113.648148435
32.765238373, −113.648148435.
PARTS 203-299 [RESERVED]
28 CFR Ch. III (7-1-25 Edition)
Federal Prison Industries, Justice

# CHAPTER III—FEDERAL PRISON INDUSTRIES, INC., DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Part
Page
300
[Reserved]
301
Inmate accident compensation
655
302
Comments on UNICOR business operations
663
345
Federal Prison Industries (FPI) inmate work programs
663
346-399
[Reserved]
PART 300 [RESERVED]
Pt. 301

# PART 301—INMATE ACCIDENT COMPENSATION

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
301.101
Purpose and scope.
301.102
Definitions.
301.103
Inmate work assignments.
301.104
Medical attention.
301.105
Investigation and report of injury.
301.106
Repetitious accidents.

# Subpart B—Lost-Time Wages
301.201
Applicability.
301.202
Determination of work-relatedness.
301.203
Payment of lost-time wages.
301.204
Continuation of lost-time wages.
301.205
Appeal of determination.

# Subpart C—Compensation for Work-Related Physical Impairment or Death
301.301
Compensable and noncompensable injuries.
301.302
Work-related death.
301.303
Time parameters for filing a claim.
301.304
Representation of claimant.
301.305
Initial determination.
301.306
Appeal of determination.
301.307
Notice, time and place of committee action.
301.308
Committee reconsideration.
301.309
In-person hearing before the committee.
301.310
Witnesses.
301.311
Expenses associated with appearance at committee hearing.
301.312
Notice of committee determination.
301.313
Chief Operating Officer review.
301.314
Establishing the amount of award.
301.315
Review of entitlement.
301.316
Subsequent incarceration of compensation recipient.
301.317
Medical treatment following release.
301.318
Civilian compensation laws distinguished.
301.319
Exclusiveness of remedy.

# Authority:
18 U.S.C. 4126, 28 CFR 0.99, and by resolution of the Board of Directors of Federal Prison Industries, Inc.

# Source:
55 FR 9296, Mar. 12, 1990, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 301.101
Purpose and scope.
Pursuant to the authority granted at 18 U.S.C. 4126, the procedures set forth in this part govern the payment of accident compensation, necessitated as the result of work-related injuries, to federal prison inmates or their dependents. Compensation may be awarded via two separate and distinct programs:
(a) Inmate Accident Compensation may be awarded to former federal inmates or their dependents for physical impairment or death resultant from injuries sustained while performing work assignments in Federal Prison Industries, Inc., in institutional work assignments involving the operation or maintenance of a federal correctional facility, or in approved work assignments for other federal entities; or,
(b) Lost-time wages may be awarded to inmates assigned to Federal Prison Industries, Inc., to paid institutional work assignments involving the operation or maintenance of a federal correctional facility, or in approved work assignments for other federal entities for work-related injuries resulting in time lost from the work assignment.
[55 FR 9296, Mar. 12, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 2666, Jan. 18, 1994]
§ 301.102
Definitions.
(a) For purposes of this part, the term
work-related injury
shall be defined to include any injury, including occupational disease or illness, proximately caused by the actual performance of the inmate's work assignment.
(b)(1) For purposes of this part, the term
release
is defined as the removal of an inmate from a Bureau of Prisons correctional facility upon expiration of sentence, parole, final discharge from incarceration of a pretrial inmate, or transfer to a community corrections center or other non-federal facility, at the conclusion of the period of confinement in which the injury occurred.
(2) In the case of an inmate who suffers a work-related injury while housed at a community corrections center,
release
is defined as the removal of the inmate from the community corrections center upon expiration of sentence, parole, or transfer to any non-federal facility, at the conclusion of the period of confinement in which the injury occurred.
(3) In the case of an inmate who suffers a work-related injury while housed at a community corrections center and is subsequently transferred to a Bureau
of Prisons facility,
release
is defined as the removal of the inmate from the Bureau of Prisons facility upon expiration of sentence, parole, or transfer to a community corrections center or other non-federal facility.
(c) For purposes of this part, the term
dependent
is defined as the legally recognized spouse or child of an inmate for whose support the inmate is legally responsible in whole or part.
(d) For purposes of this part, the term
work detail supervisor
may refer to either a Bureau of Prisons or a non-Bureau of Prisons supervisor.
(e) For the purposes of this part, the phrase
housed at
or
based at
a “Bureau of Prisons institution” shall refer to an inmate that has a work assignment with a Bureau of Prisons institution or with another federal entity and is incarcerated at a Bureau of Prisons institution. For the purposes of this part, the phrase
based at
or
housed at
a “community corrections center” shall refer to an inmate who has a work assignment for a non-Bureau of Prisons federal entity and is incarcerated at a community corrections center.
[55 FR 9296, Mar. 12, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 2666, Jan. 18, 1994]
§ 301.103
Inmate work assignments.
The unit team of each inmate, which ordinarily designates work assignments, or whoever makes work assignments, shall review appropriate medical records, presentence reports, admission summaries, and all other available information prior to the designation of an inmate to a work assignment in an effort to preclude the assignment of an inmate to a work assignment not compatible with the inmate's physical ability or condition.
[55 FR 9296, Mar. 12, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 2667, Jan. 18, 1994]
§ 301.104
Medical attention.
Whenever an inmate worker is injured while in the performance of assigned duty, regardless of the extent of the injury, the inmate shall immediately report the injury to his official work detail supervisor. In the case of injuries on work details for other federal entities, the inmate shall also report the injury as soon as possible to community corrections or institution staff, as appropriate. The work detail supervisor shall immediately secure such first aid, medical, or hospital treatment as may be necessary for the proper treatment of the injured inmate. First aid treatment may be provided by any knowledgeable individual. Medical, surgical, and hospital care shall be rendered under the direction of institution medical staff for all inmates based at Bureau of Prisons institutions. In the case of inmates based at community corrections centers, medical care shall be arranged by the work supervisor or by community corrections center staff in accordance with the medical needs of the inmate. Refusal by an inmate worker to accept such medical, surgical, hospital, or first aid treatment recommended by medical staff or by other medical professionals may result in denial of any claim for compensation for any impairment resulting from the injury.
[59 FR 2667, Jan. 18, 1994]
§ 301.105
Investigation and report of injury.
(a) After initiating necessary action for medical attention, the work detail supervisor shall immediately secure a record of the cause, nature, and exact extent of the injury. The work detail supervisor shall complete a BP-140, Injury Report (Inmate), on all injuries reported by the inmate, as well as injuries observed by staff. In the case of injuries on work details for other federal entities, the work supervisor shall also immediately inform community corrections or institution staff, as appropriate, of the injury. The injury report shall contain a signed statement from the inmate on how the accident occurred. The names and statements of all witnesses (e.g., staff, inmates, or others) shall be included in the report. If the injury resulted from the operation of mechanical equipment, an identifying description or photograph of the machine or instrument causing the injury shall be obtained, to include a description of all safety equipment used by the injured inmate at the time of the injury. Staff shall provide the inmate with a copy of the injury report. Staff shall then forward the original
and remaining copies of the injury report to the Institutional Safety Manager for review. In the case of inmates based at community corrections centers, the work detail supervisor shall provide the inmate with a copy of the injury report and shall forward the original and remaining copies of the injury report to the Community Corrections Manager responsible for the particular community corrections center where the inmate is housed.
(b) The Institution Safety Manager or Community Corrections Manager shall ensure that a medical description of the injury is included on the BP-140 whenever the injury requires medical attention. The Institution Safety Manager or Community Corrections Manager shall also ensure that the appropriate sections of BP-140, Page 2, Injury—Lost-Time Follow-Up Report, are completed and that all reported work injuries are properly documented.
[59 FR 2667, Jan. 18, 1994]
§ 301.106
Repetitious accidents.
If an inmate worker is involved in successive accidents on a particular work site in a comparatively short period of time, regardless of whether injury occurs, and the circumstances of the accidents indicate an awkwardness or ineptitude that, in the opinion of the inmate's work supervisor, implies a danger of further accidents in the task assigned, the inmate shall be assigned to another task more suitable to the inmate's ability.

# Subpart B—Lost-Time Wages
§ 301.201
Applicability.
Lost-time wages shall be available only for inmates based at Bureau of Prisons institutions.
[59 FR 2667, Jan. 18, 1994]
§ 301.202
Determination of work-relatedness.
(a) When the institution safety manager receives notice, or has reason to believe, a work-related injury may result in time lost from the work assignment, he or she shall present BP-140, Pages 1 and 2 (with the appropriate sections completed) to the Institution Safety Committee at the Committee's next regularly scheduled meeting. The Safety Committee shall make a determination of the injury's work-relatedness based on the available evidence and testimony. The determination shall be recorded on BP-140, Page 2, a copy of which shall be provided to the inmate.
(b) A determination of work-relatedness for purposes of awarding lost-time wages is not confirmation on the validity of any subsequent claim to receive compensation for work-related physical impairment or death.
[55 FR 9296, Mar. 12, 1990. Redesignated at 59 FR 2667, Jan. 18, 1994]
§ 301.203
Payment of lost-time wages.
(a) An inmate worker may receive lost-time wages for the number of regular work hours absent from work due to injury sustained in the performance of the assigned work.
(b) Lost-time wages are paid for time lost in excess of three consecutively scheduled workdays. The day of injury is considered to be the first workday regardless of the time of injury.
(c) An inmate may receive lost-time wages at the rate of 75% of the standard hourly rate of the inmate's regular work assignment at the time of the injury.
[55 FR 9296, Mar. 12, 1990. Redesignated at 59 FR 2667, Jan. 18, 1994]
§ 301.204
Continuation of lost-time wages.
(a) Once approved, the inmate shall receive lost-time wages until the inmate:
(1) Is released;
(2) Is transferred to another institution for reasons unrelated to the work injury;
(3) Returns to the pre-injury work assignment;
(4) Is reassigned to another work area or program for reasons unrelated to the sustained work injury, or is placed into Disciplinary Segregation; or,
(5) Refuses to return to a regular work assignment or to a lighter duty work assignment after medical certification of fitness for such duty.
(b) An inmate medically certified as fit for return to work shall sustain no monetary loss due to a required change in work assignment. Where there is no
light duty or regular work assignment available at the same rate of pay as the inmate's pre-injury work assignment, the difference shall be paid in lost-time wages. Lost-time wages are paid until a light duty or regular work assignment at the same pay rate as the inmate's pre-injury work assignment is available.
[55 FR 9296, Mar. 12, 1990. Redesignated at 59 FR 2667, Jan. 18, 1994]
§ 301.205
Appeal of determination.
An inmate who disagrees with the decision regarding payment of lost-time wages may appeal that decision exclusively through the Administrative Remedy Procedure. (See 28 CFR part 542.)
[55 FR 9296, Mar. 12, 1990. Redesignated at 59 FR 2667, Jan. 18, 1994]

# Subpart C—Compensation for Work-Related Physical Impairment or Death
§ 301.301
Compensable and noncompensable injuries.
(a) No compensation for work-related injuries resulting in physical impairment shall be paid prior to an inmate's release.
(b) Compensation may only be paid for work-related injuries or claims alleging improper medical treatment of a work-related injury. This ordinarily includes only those injuries suffered during the performance of an inmate's regular work assignment. However, injuries suffered during the performance of voluntary work in the operation or maintenance of the institution, when such work has been approved by staff, may also be compensable.
(c) Compensation is not paid for injuries sustained during participation in institutional programs (such as programs of a social, recreational, or community relations nature) or from maintenance of one's own living quarters. Furthermore, compensation shall not be paid for injuries suffered away from the work location (e.g., while the claimant is going to or leaving work, or going to or coming from lunch outside of the work station or area).
(d) Injuries sustained by inmate workers willfully or with intent to injure someone else, or injuries suffered in any activity not related to the actual performance of the work assignment are not compensable, and no claim for compensation for such injuries will be approved. Willful violation of rules and regulations may result in denial of compensation for any resulting injury.
§ 301.302
Work-related death.
A claim for compensation as the result of work-related death may be filed by a dependent of the deceased inmate up to one year after the inmate's work-related death. The claim shall be submitted directly to the Claims Examiner, Federal Bureau of Prisons, 320 First Street NW., Washington, DC 20534.
§ 301.303
Time parameters for filing a claim.
(a) No more than 45 days prior to the date of an inmate's release, but no less than 15 days prior to this date, each inmate who feels that a residual physical impairment exists as a result of an industrial, institution, or other work-related injury shall submit a FPI Form 43, Inmate Claim for Compensation on Account of Work Injury. Assistance will be given the inmate to properly prepare the claim, if the inmate wishes to file. In each case a definite statement shall be made by the claimant as to the impairment caused by the alleged injury. The completed claim form shall be submitted to the Institution Safety Manager or Community Corrections Manager for processing.
(b) In the case of an inmate based at a community corrections center who is being transferred to a Bureau of Prisons institution, the Community Corrections Manager shall forward all materials relating to an inmate's work-related injury to the Institution Safety Manager at the particular institution where an inmate is being transferred, for eventual processing by the Safety Manager prior to the inmate's release from that institution.
(c) Each claimant shall submit to a medical examination to determine the degree of physical impairment. Refusal, or failure, to submit to such a medical examination shall result in the
forfeiture of all rights to compensation. In each case of visible impairment, disfigurement, or loss of member, photographs shall be taken to show the actual condition and shall be transmitted with FPI Form 43.
(d) The claim, after completion by the physician conducting the impairment examination, shall be returned to the Institution Safety Manager or Community Corrections Manager for final processing. It shall then be forwarded promptly to the Claims Examiner, Federal Bureau of Prisons, 320 First Street NW., Washington, DC 20534.
(e) It is the responsibility of each claimant to advise the Claims Examiner of his or her current address, in writing, at all times during the pendency of a claim for Inmate Accident Compensation.
(f) When circumstances preclude submission in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, a claim may be accepted up to 60 days following release. Additionally, a claim for impairment may be accepted up to one year after release, for good cause shown. In such cases the claim shall be submitted directly to the Claims Examiner, Federal Bureau of Prisons, 320 First Street NW., Washington, DC 20534.
[55 FR 9296, Mar. 12, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 2667, Jan. 18, 1994]
§ 301.304
Representation of claimant.
(a) Any person may represent the claimant's interest in any proceeding for determination of a claim under this part, so long as that person is not confined in any federal, state or local correctional facility. Written appointment of a representative, signed by the claimant, must be submitted before the representative's authority to act on behalf of the claimant may be acknowledged.
(b) It is not necessary that a claimant employ an attorney or other person to assert a claim or effect collection of an award. Under no circumstances will the assignment of any award be recognized, nor will attorney fees be paid by Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
§ 301.305
Initial determination.
A claim for inmate accident compensation shall be determined by a Claims Examiner under authority delegated by the Board of Directors of Federal Prison Industries, Inc., pursuant to 28 CFR 0.99. In determining the claim, the Claims Examiner will consider all available evidence. Written notice of the determination, including the reasons therefore, together with notification of the right to appeal the determination, shall be mailed to the claimant at the claimant's last known address, or to the claimant's duly appointed representative.
§ 301.306
Appeal of determination.
(a) An Inmate Accident Compensation Committee (hereafter referred to as the “Committee”) shall be appointed by the Chief Operating Officer, Federal Prison Industries, Inc., under authority delegated by the Board of Directors of Federal Prison Industries, Inc., pursuant to 28 CFR 0.99. The Committee shall consist of four members and four alternate members, with any three thereof required to form a quorum for decision-making purposes.
(b) Any claimant not satisfied with any decision of the Claims Examiner concerning the amount or right to compensation shall, upon written request made within 30 days after the date of issuance of such determination, or up to 30 days thereafter upon a showing of reasonable cause, be afforded an opportunity for either an in-person hearing before the Committee, or Committee reconsideration of the decision. A claimant may request an in-person hearing or reconsideration by writing to the Inmate Accident Compensation Committee, Federal Bureau of Prisons, 320 First Street NW., Washington, DC 20534.
(c) Upon receipt of claimant's request, a determination will be made regarding the timeliness of the filing. If the request is timely filed, or if reasonable cause exists to accept the request filed in an untimely manner, the request shall be accepted. Once accepted, a copy of the information upon which the Claims Examiner's initial determination was based shall be mailed to the claimant at the claimant's last known address, or to claimant's duly
appointed representative, provided the release of such information is not determined to pose a threat to the safety of the claimant, any other inmate, or staff.
§ 301.307
Notice, time and place of committee action.
(a) Committee action shall ordinarily occur within 60 days of the receipt of claimant's request, except as provided in this section. Notice of the date set for Committee action shall be mailed to the claimant at the claimant's last known address, or to claimant's duly appointed representative. All Committee action shall be conducted at the Central Office of the Bureau of Prisons, 320 First Street NW., Washington, DC 20534.
(b) A hearing or reconsideration may be postponed at the option of the Committee, or, if good cause is shown, upon request of the claimant. A claimant may change the request from either hearing to reconsideration or reconsideration to hearing, provided notice of such change is received at least 10 days prior to the previously scheduled action.
§ 301.308
Committee reconsideration.
If the claimant elects to have the Committee reconsider any decision of the Claims Examiner, the claimant may submit documentary evidence which the Committee shall consider in addition to the original record. The Committee must receive evidence no less than 10 days prior to the date of reconsideration, and may request additional documentary evidence from the claimant or any other source.
§ 301.309
In-person hearing before the committee.
(a) The appeal shall be considered to have been abandoned if the claimant fails to appear at the time and place set for the hearing and does not, within 10 days after the time set for that hearing, show good cause for failure to appear.
(b) In conducting the hearing, the Committee is not bound by common law or statutory rules of evidence, or by technical or formal rules of procedure, but may conduct the hearing in such manner as to best ascertain the rights and obligations of the claimant and the government. At such hearing, the claimant shall be afforded an opportunity to present evidence in support of the claim under review.
(c) The Committee shall consider all evidence presented by the claimant, and shall, in addition, consider any other evidence as the Committee may determine to be useful in evaluating the claim. Evidence may be presented orally and/or in the form of written statements and exhibits.
(d) A representative appointed in accordance with the provisions of this section may make or give, on behalf of the claimant, any request or notice relative to any proceeding before the Committee. A representative shall be entitled to present or elicit evidence or make allegations as to fact and law in any proceeding affecting the claimant and to request information with respect to the claim. Likewise, any request for additional information, or notice to any claimant of any administrative action, determination, or decision, may be sent to the representative of such claimant, and shall have the same force and effect as if it had been sent to the claimant.
(e) In order to fully evaluate the claim, the Committee may question the claimant and any witness(es) appearing before the Committee on behalf of the claimant or government.
(f) Claimant, or claimant's representative, may question the Committee or any witness(es) appearing before the Committee on behalf of the government, but only on matters determined by the Committee to be relevant to its evaluation of the claim.
(g) The hearing shall be recorded, and a copy of the recording or, at the discretion of the Committee, a transcript thereof shall be made available to the claimant upon request, provided such request is made not later than 90 days following the date of the hearing.
§ 301.310
Witnesses.
(a) If a claimant wishes to present witnesses at the hearing, the claimant must provide the Committee, no less than 10 days before the scheduled hearing date, the name and address of each proposed witness, along with an outline
of each witness' testimony. The Committee may limit the number of witnesses who may appear at a hearing, however, the Committee has no authority to compel the attendance of any witness.
(b) Any person confined in a Federal, State, or local penal or correctional institution at the time of the hearing may not appear as a witness, but that person's testimony may be submitted in the form of a written statement.
§ 301.311
Expenses associated with appearance at committee hearing.
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., may not assume responsibility for any expenses incurred by the claimant, claimant's representative, or any witness appearing on behalf of the claimant in connection with attendance at the hearing, as well as any other costs relating to any representative, witnesses, or evidence associated with a hearing before the Committee.
§ 301.312
Notice of committee determination.
The Committee shall mail written notice of its decision to affirm, reverse, or amend the Claims Examiner's initial determination, with the reasons for its decision, to the claimant at the claimant's last known address, or to claimant's duly appointed representative, no later than 30 days after the date of the hearing unless the Committee needs to make a further investigation as a result of information received at the hearing. If the Committee conducts further investigation subsequent to the hearing, the decision notice shall be mailed no later than 30 days after the conclusion of the Committee's investigation.
§ 301.313
Chief Operating Officer review.
Any claimant not satisfied with the Committee's reconsidered decision or decision after a hearing may appeal such decision to the Chief Operating Officer, Federal Prison Industries, Inc., 320 First Street NW., Washington, DC 20534. A written request for such an appeal must be received no later than 90 days after the date of notice of the Committee's decision. The Chief Operating Officer shall review the record and affirm, reverse or amend the Committee's decision no later than 90 days after receipt of claimant's notice of appeal. Written notice of the Chief Operating Officer's decision shall be mailed to the claimant's last known address, or to the claimant's representative.
§ 301.314
Establishing the amount of award.
(a) If a claim for Inmate Accident Compensation is approved, the amount of compensation shall be based upon the degree of physical impairment existent at the time of the claimant's release regardless of when during the claimant's period of confinement the injury was sustained. No claim for compensation will be approved if full recovery occurs while the inmate is in custody and no impairment remains at the time of release.
(b) In determining the amount of accident compensation to be paid, the permanency and severity of the injury in terms of functional impairment shall be considered. The provisions of the Federal Employees' Compensation Act (FECA) (5 U.S.C. 8101,
et seq.
) shall be followed when practicable. The FECA establishes a set number of weeks of compensation applicable for injuries to specific body members or organs (section 8107).
(c) All awards of Inmate Accident Compensation shall be based upon the minimum wage (as prescribed by the Fair Labor Standards Act).
(1) For body members or organs covered under section 8107, the minimum wage applicable at the time of the award shall be used as the basis for determining the amount of compensation. Awards regarding injury to body members or organs covered under section 8107 shall be paid in a lump sum. Acceptance of such an award shall constitute full and final settlement of the claim for compensation.
(2) For body members or organs not covered under section 8107, awards will be paid on a monthly basis because such awards are subject to periodic review of entitlement. The minimum wage applicable at the time of each monthly payment shall be used in determining the amount of each monthly payment. Monthly payments are ordinarily mailed the first day of the
month following the month in which the award is effective.
§ 301.315
Review of entitlement.
(a) Each monthly compensation recipient shall be required, upon request of the Claims Examiner, to submit to a medical examination, by a physician specified or approved by the Claims Examiner, to determine the current status of his physical impairment. Any reduction in the degree of physical impairment revealed by this examination shall result in a commensurate reduction in the amount of monthly compensation provided. Failure to submit to this physical examination shall be deemed refusal, and shall ordinarily result in denial of future compensation. The costs associated with this examination shall be borne by Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
(b) Inasmuch as compensation awards are based upon the minimum wage, any income received by a compensation recipient which exceeds the annual income available at the minimum wage (based upon a 40 hour work week), including Social Security or veterans benefits received as the result of the work-related injury for which Inmate Accident Compensation has been awarded, shall be deemed excessive. The amount of compensation payable to a claimant with an income deemed excessive shall be reduced at the rate of one dollar for each two dollars of earned and benefit income which exceeds the annual income available at minimum wage. Each monthly compensation recipient shall be required to provide a statement of earnings on an annual basis, or as otherwise requested. Failure to provide this statement shall result in the suspension or denial of all Inmate Accident Compensation benefits until such time as satisfactory evidence of continued eligibility is provided.
§ 301.316
Subsequent incarceration of compensation recipient.
If a claimant, who has been awarded compensation on a monthly basis, is or becomes incarcerated at any federal, state, or local correctional facility, monthly compensation payments payable to the claimant shall ordinarily be suspended until such time as the claimant is released from the correctional facility.
[59 FR 2667, Jan. 18, 1994]
§ 301.317
Medical treatment following release.
Federal Prison lndustries, Inc., may not pay the cost of medical, hospital treatment, or any other related expense incurred after release from confinement unless such cost is authorized by the Claims Examiner in advance, or the Claims Examiner determines that circumstances warrant the waiver of this requirement. Generally, the payment of such costs is limited to impairment evaluations, or treatments intended to reduce the degree of physical impairment, conducted at the direction of the Claims Examiner. The amount of a payment for medical treatment is limited to reasonable expenses incurred, such as those amounts authorized under the applicable fee schedule established pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 1395w-4 for the Department of Health and Human Services Medicare program.
[55 FR 9296, Mar. 12, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 2667, Jan. 18, 1994]
§ 301.318
Civilian compensation laws distinguished.
The Inmate Accident Compensation system is not obligated to comply with the provisions of any other system of worker's compensation except where stated in this part. Awards made under the provisions of the Inmate Accident Compensation procedure differ from awards made under civilian workmen's compensation laws in that hospitalization is usually completed prior to the inmate's release from the institution and, except for a three-day waiting period, the inmate receives wages while absent from work. Other factors necessarily must be considered that do not enter into the administration of civilian workmen's compensation laws. As in the case of federal employees who allege they have sustained work-related injuries, the burden of proof lies with the claimant to establish that the claimed impairment is causally related to the claimant's work assignment.
§ 301.319
Exclusiveness of remedy.
Inmates who are subject to the provisions of these Inmate Accident Compensation regulations are barred from recovery under the Federal Tort Claims Act (28 U.S.C. 2671
et seq.
). Recovery under the Inmate Accident Compensation procedure was declared by the U.S. Supreme Court to be the exclusive remedy in the case of work-related injury.
U.S.
v.
Demko,
385 U.S. 149 (1966).
[55 FR 9296, Mar. 12, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 2667, Jan. 18, 1994]
Pt. 302

# PART 302—COMMENTS ON UNICOR BUSINESS OPERATIONS

# Authority:
18 U.S.C. 4126, and by resolution of the Board of Directors of Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
§ 302.1
Public and private sector comment procedures.
(a) Any interested party having any comment concerning the business operations of Federal Prison Industries, Inc. (UNICOR) may write to the Chief Operating Officer of UNICOR, or to the Chairman of the Board of Directors of UNICOR, and bring such matters to the attention of either or both officials. Where appropriate, a response shall promptly be made. The Board shall be kept advised of all comments and responses.
(b) Address correspondence as follows:
(1) Chief Operating Officer, Federal Prison Industries, Inc., 320 First Street, NW., Washington, DC 20534, Attn: Comment Procedures; or
(2) Board of Directors, Federal Prison Industries, Inc., 320 First Street, NW., Washington, DC 20534, Attn: Comment Procedures.
(c) This section does not apply to inmate complaints which are properly raised through the procedures provided in the Bureau of Prisons' rule on Administrative Remedy (28 CFR part 42).
[55 FR 30668, July 26, 1990, as amended at 69 FR 1524, Jan. 9, 2004]
Pt. 345

# PART 345—FEDERAL PRISON INDUSTRIES (FPI) INMATE WORK PROGRAMS

# Subpart A—Purpose and Scope
Sec.
345.10
Purpose and scope.

# Subpart B—Definitions
345.11
Definitions.

# Subpart C—Position Classification
345.20
Position classification.

# Subpart D—Recruitment and Hiring Practices
345.31
Recruitment.
345.32
Hiring.
345.33
Waiting list hiring exceptions.
345.34
Refusal to employ.
345.35
Assignments to FPI.

# Subpart E—Inmate Worker Standards and Performance Appraisal
345.40
General.
345.41
Performance appraisal for inmate workers.
345.42
Inmate worker dismissal.

# Subpart F—Inmate Pay and Benefits
345.50
General.
345.51
Inmate pay.
345.52
Premium pay.
345.53
Piecework rates.
345.54
Overtime compensation.
345.55
Longevity pay.
345.56
Vacation pay.
345.57
Administrative pay.
345.58
Holiday pay.
345.59
Inmate performance pay.
345.60
Training pay.
345.61
Inmate earnings statement.
345.62
Inmate accident compensation.
345.63
Funds due deceased inmates.
345.64
Referral of releasable medical data to FPI staff.
345.65
Inmate medical work limitation.
345.66
Claims limitation.
345.67
Retention of benefits.

# Subpart G—Awards Program
345.70
General.
345.71
Official commendations.
345.72
Cash bonus or cash award.
345.73
Procedures for granting awards for suggestions or inventions.
345.74
Awards for special achievements for inmate workers.

# Subpart H—FPI Inmate Training and Scholarship Programs
345.80
General.
345.81
Pre-industrial training.
345.82
Apprenticeship training.
345.83
Job safety training.
345.84
The FPI scholarship fund.

# Authority:
18 U.S.C. 4126, 28 CFR 0.99, and by resolution of the Board of Directors of Federal Prison Industries, Inc.

# Source:
60 FR 15827, Mar. 27, 1995, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose and Scope
§ 345.10
Purpose and scope.
It is the policy of the Bureau of Prisons to provide work to all inmates (including inmates with a disability who, with or without reasonable accommodations, can perform the essential tasks of the work assignment) confined in a federal institution. Federal Prison Industries, Inc. (FPI) was established as a program to provide meaningful work for inmates. This work is designed to allow inmates the opportunity to acquire the knowledge, skills, and work habits which will be useful when released from the institution. There is no statutory requirement that inmates be paid for work in an industrial assignment. 18 U.S.C. 4126, however, provides for discretionary compensation to inmates working in Industries. Under this authority, inmates of the same grade jobs, regardless of the basis of pay (hourly, group piece, or individual piece rates) shall receive approximately the same compensation. All pay rates under this part are established at the discretion of Federal Prison Industries, Inc. Any alteration or termination of the rates shall require the approval of the Federal Prison Industries' Board of Directors. While the Warden is responsible for the local administration of Inmate Industrial Payroll regulations, no pay system is initiated or changed without prior approval of the Assistant Director, Industries, Education and Vocational Training (Assistant Director).

# Subpart B—Definitions
§ 345.11
Definitions.
(a)
Federal Prison Industries, Inc. (FPI)
—A government corporation organizationally within the Bureau of Prisons whose mission is to provide work simulation programs and training opportunities for inmates confined in Federal correctional facilities. The commercial or “trade” name of Federal Prison Industries, Inc. is UNICOR. Most factories or shops of Federal Prison Industries, Inc. are commonly referred to as “UNICOR” or as “Industries”. Where these terms are used, they refer to FPI production locations and to the corporation as a whole. UNICOR, FPI, and Industries are used interchangeably in this manner. For these purposes, Federal Prison Industries, Inc. will hereinafter be referred to as FPI.
(b)
Superintendent of Industries (SOI)
—The Superintendent of Industries, also referred to as Associate Warden/Industries and Education, is responsible for the efficient management and operation of an FPI factory. Hereinafter, referred to as SOI.
(c)
FPI work status
—Assignment to an Industries work detail.
(1) An inmate is in FPI work status if on the job, on sick call during the inmate's assigned hours, on furlough, on vacation, for the first thirty days on writ, for the first 30 days in administrative detention, or for the first 30 days on medical idle for FPI work-related injury so long as the injury did not result from an intentional violation by the inmate of work safety standards.
(2)
Full-time work status.
A work schedule for an inmate consisting of 90% or more of the normal FPI factory work week.
(3)
Part-time work status.
A work schedule of less than 90% of the normal FPI factory work week.
(d)
Unit Team
—Bureau of Prisons staff responsible for the management of inmates and the delivery of programs and services. The Unit Team may consist of a unit manager, case manager, correctional counselor, unit secretary, unit officer, education representative, and psychologist.
(e)
Unit Discipline Committee (UDC)
—The term
Unit Discipline Committee
refers to one or more institution staff members delegated by the Warden with the authority and duty to hold an initial hearing upon completion of the investigation concerning alleged charge(s) of inmate misconduct (see 28 CFR 541.15). The Warden shall authorize these staff members to impose minor sanctions for violation of prohibited act(s).
(f)
Discipline hearing officer (DHO)
—This term refers to an independent discipline hearing officer who is responsible for conducting Institution Discipline Hearings and who imposes appropriate sanctions for incidents of inmate misconduct referred for disposition following the hearing required by 28 CFR 541.15 before the UDC.
(g)
Pretrial inmate
—The definition of pretrial inmate in 28 CFR 551.101(a) is applicable to this part.
[60 FR 15827, Mar. 27, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 59168, Nov. 20, 1996; 64 FR 32169, June 15, 1999]

# Subpart C—Position Classification
§ 345.20
Position classification.
(a) Inmate worker positions must be assigned an appropriate level of pay. All inmate workers shall be informed of the objectives and principles of pay classification as a part of the routine orientation of new FPI inmate workers.
(b) The Warden and SOI have the responsibility for position classification at each location.

# Subpart D—Recruitment and Hiring Practices
§ 345.31
Recruitment.
Inmate workers for FPI locations may be recruited through admission and orientation lectures or through direct recruiting.
§ 345.32
Hiring.
(a) Inmate workers are ordinarily hired through waiting lists. Except as noted in § 345.33, inmates are to be placed on the waiting lists in order of receipt of applications for work with Industries, and are to be hired in the same sequence.
(b) Waiting lists are to be maintained and kept available for scrutiny by auditors and other staff with a need to know. SOI's are encouraged to maintain a waiting list for each FPI factory.
§ 345.33
Waiting list hiring exceptions.
(a)
Needed skills.
An inmate may be hired ahead of other inmates on the waiting list if the inmate possesses needed skills and the SOI documents the reasons for the action in the position classification files.
(b)
Prior FPI work assignment.
An inmate with prior FPI work experience during the inmate's current commitment and with no break in custody will ordinarily be placed within the top ten percent of the waiting lists unless the inmate was transferred for disciplinary reasons, was placed in segregation, or voluntarily left the FPI work assignment for non-program reasons (i.e. for some reason other than formal education, vocational training, drug abuse or similar formal programs). For example, an inmate transferred administratively for nondisciplinary reasons, and who has documented credit as a prior worker, is covered under the provisions of this paragraph.
(c)
Industry closing and relocation.
When an FPI factory closes in a location with two or more FPI factories, an inmate worker affected may be transferred to remaining FPI factories ahead of the top portion of the inmates on the waiting lists, so there is no break in active duty with FPI. Such actions are also in order where the work force of an industry is reduced to meet institution or FPI needs. An inmate transferred under the provisions of this part will have the same benefits as any intra-industry transfer.
(d)
Disciplinary transfers.
An inmate who is a disciplinary transfer from the last institution designated and who wishes re-assignment in FPI at the receiving institution may be hired on a case-by-case basis at the discretion of the SOI, who should consider the security level and reasons for the misconduct. Such an inmate, despite prior experience, is not due special placement on the waiting list, is not given
advance hiring preference, and does not receive consideration for accelerated promotion back to the grade held at time of transfer.
(e)
Special needs.
For special needs, such as Inmate Financial Responsibility assignment to assist in paying a significant financial obligation or for release preparation, the unit team may recommend an inmate for priority placement on the waiting list. Such placement must be documented and include the reason for the exception.
§ 345.34
Refusal to employ.
(a) The SOI has authority to refuse an FPI assignment to an inmate who, in the judgment of the SOI, would constitute a serious threat to the orderly and safe operation of the FPI factory. A refusal to assign must be documented by a memorandum to the unit team listing reasons for the refusal, with a copy to the position classification files in FPI. Typically, the reasons should include other earlier (ordinarily within the past twelve months) documented violations of the FPI inmate worker standards or institution disciplinary regulations.
(b) The refusal to assign is to be rescinded when, in the judgment of the SOI, the worker no longer constitutes a serious threat to the FPI industrial operation.
§ 345.35
Assignments to FPI.
(a) An inmate or detainee may be considered for assignment with FPI unless the inmate is a pretrial inmate or is currently under an order of deportation, exclusion, or removal. However, an inmate or detainee who is currently under an order of deportation, exclusion, or removal may be considered for assignment with FPI if the Attorney General has determined that the inmate or detainee cannot be removed from the United States because the designated country of removal will not accept his/her return. Any request by an inmate for consideration must be made through the unit team. FPI does not discriminate on the bases of race, color, religion, ethnic origin, age, or disability.
(b) The SOI ordinarily makes assignments based on the recommendation of the unit team.
(1) New workers are ordinarily assigned at pay grade five. All first-time inmate workers shall enter at pay grade five and may be required to successfully complete a course in pre-industrial training or on-the-job training (as available) before promotion to pay grade four.
(2) An inmate who has not successfully completed pre-industrial or on-the-job training remains at pay grade five for at least 30 days.
(3) An inmate hired after having resigned voluntarily from FPI may be excused from pre-industrial training and may be hired at a pay grade based on previous training and experience.
[60 FR 15827, Mar. 27, 1995, as amended at 64 FR 32169, June 15, 1999]

# Subpart E—Inmate Worker Standards and Performance Appraisal
§ 345.40
General.
This subpart authorizes the establishment of minimum work standards for inmate workers assigned to the Industries program at all field locations. The SOI may reproduce these standards and may also develop additional local guidelines to augment these standards and to adapt them to local needs and conditions. Local Industries shall place these standards and any additional local guidelines on display at appropriate locations within the industrial sites. Inmates shall be provided with a copy of these standards and local guidelines, and shall sign receipts acknowledging they have received and understand them before beginning work in the Industries program. In the case of a disabled inmate, alternate media or means of communicating this information and indicating the inmate's receipt may be provided, if necessary as a reasonable accommodation.
(a) At a minimum, each industrial location is to have work standards for each of the following areas:
(1) Safety—ensuring the promotion of workplace safety and the avoidance of activities that could result in injury to self or others.
(2) Quality assurance—ensuring that work is done as directed by the supervisor in an attentive manner so as to minimize the chance of error.
(3) Personal conduct and hygiene—ensuring the promotion of harmony and sanitary conditions in the workplace through observation of good hygiene and full cooperation with other inmate workers, work supervisors, and training staff.
(4) Punctuality and productivity—ensuring the productive and efficient use of time while the inmate is on work assignment or in training.
(b)
Compliance with work standards.
Each inmate assigned to FPI shall comply with all work standards pertaining to his or her work assignment. Adherence to the standards should be considered in evaluating the inmate's work performance and documented in individual hiring, retention, and promotion/demotion situations.
§ 345.41
Performance appraisal for inmate workers.
Work supervisors should complete a performance appraisal form for each inmate semi-annually, by March 31 and September 30, or upon termination or transfer from the industrial work assignment. Copies shall be sent to the unit team. Inmate workers should discuss their appraisals with their supervisors at a mutually agreeable time in order to improve their performance. Satisfactory and unsatisfactory performance ratings shall be based on the standards in § 345.40(a).
(a) The SOI is to ensure that evaluations are done and are submitted to unit teams in a timely manner.
(b) The SOI or a designee may promote an inmate to a higher grade level if an opening exists when the inmate's skills, abilities, qualifications, and work performance are sufficiently developed to enable the inmate to carry out a more complex FPI factory assignment successfully, when the inmate has met the institution's time-in-grade (unless waived by the SOI), and when the inmate has abided by the inmate worker standards. Conversely, the SOI or SOI designee may demote an inmate worker for failing to abide by the inmate worker standards. Such demotions shall be fully documented.
§ 345.42
Inmate worker dismissal.
The SOI may remove an inmate from Industries work status in cooperation with the unit team.
(a) The SOI may remove an inmate from FPI work status according to the conditions outlined in the pay and benefits section of this policy and in cooperation with the unit team.
(b) An inmate may be removed from FPI work status for failure to comply with any court-mandated financial responsibility. (See 28 CFR 545.11(d)).
(c) An inmate found to have committed a prohibited act (whether or not it is FPI related) resulting in segregation or disciplinary transfer is also to be dismissed from Industries based on an unsatisfactory performance rating for failure to be at work.
(d) Any inmate or detainee who is a pretrial inmate or who is currently under an order of deportation, exclusion, or removal shall be removed from any FPI work assignment and reassigned to a non-FPI work assignment for which the inmate is eligible. However, an inmate or detainee who is currently under an order of deportation, exclusion, or removal may be retained in the FPI assignment if the Attorney General has determined that the inmate or detainee cannot be removed from the United States because the designated country of removal will not accept his/her return.
[60 FR 15827, Mar. 27, 1995, as amended at 64 FR 32170, June 15, 1999]

# Subpart F—Inmate Pay and Benefits
§ 345.50
General.
Title 18 U. S. Code section 4126 authorizes FPI to compensate inmates under rules and regulations promulgated by the Attorney General. It is the policy of FPI to provide compensation to FPI inmate workers through various conditions of pay and benefits, except as otherwise provided in these regulations.
§ 345.51
Inmate pay.
(a)
Grade levels.
Inmate workers in FPI locations receive pay at five levels ranging from 5th grade pay (lowest) to 1st grade pay (highest).
(b)
Eligibility.
(1) An inmate shall accrue vacation time, longevity service credit, and shall receive holiday pay for the period of time the inmate is officially assigned to the Industries work detail. For limitations on claims, refer to § 345.66.
(2) Inmate workers may be eligible for premium pay as specified in § 345.52. Eligibility for other pay and benefits are described separately in this subpart.
(3) FPI pay and benefits are lost in cases of disciplinary transfer and segregation.
(4) An inmate returned to the institution due to program failure at a Community Corrections Center or while on parole or escape is not entitled to credit for time spent in Industries prior to said program failure. This rule also applies to any other program failure which results in a break in confinement status.
§ 345.52
Premium pay.
Payment of premium pay to selected inmates is authorized. The total number of qualifying inmates may not exceed 15% of first grade inmates at a location.
(a)
Eligibility.
Inmates in first grade pay status may be considered for premium pay.
(b)
The selection process.
Candidates for premium pay must be nominated by a foreman on the FPI staff, and recommended on the basis of specific posted criteria by a selection committee assigned by the SOI.
(1) The SOI, as the chief selecting official, must sign approval for all premium pay inmate selections. This authority may not be delegated below the level of Acting SOI.
(2) The selected candidate(s) are notified by the FPI Manager or by a posted list on the FPI bulletin board. A record of the selection and who was on the selection board is kept for documentation purposes. An inmate nominated to be a premium pay inmate may refuse the appointment without prejudice.
(c) [Reserved]
(d)
Pay rate.
Premium pay inmates receive a specified amount over and above all other pay and benefits to which they may be entitled (e.g., longevity pay, overtime, piecework rates, etc.). Premium pay is also paid for vacation, holiday, and administrative hours.
(e)
Duties of premium pay inmates.
Premium pay is a means of recognizing the value of those traits supportive of morale and good institutional adjustment. It is not a form of bonus or incentive pay for highly productive inmates.
(f)
Transfer status of premium pay inmates.
Premium pay status may not be transferred from institution to institution with the inmate worker. Premium pay status must be earned at each location.
(g)
Removals from premium pay status.
Removal from premium pay status may occur for failure to demonstrate the premium pay selection traits or for failure to abide by the inmate worker standards set forth in this policy. All removals from premium pay status shall be documented on the inmate's evaluation form. The following conditions also may result in removal from premium pay status:
(1) Any premium pay inmate found to have committed any level 100 or 200 series offense by the DHO is automatically removed from premium pay status whether or not the offense was FPI-related.
(2) Inmates absent from work for more than 30 consecutive calendar days may be removed from premium pay status by the SOI.
§ 345.53
Piecework rates.
Piecework rates are incentives for workers to strive for higher pay and production benefiting both the worker and FPI. Piecework rates may be of two major types: individual piecework (in which an individual's pay goes up or down depending upon his/her own output) or Group Wage Fund (in which all members of a group strive for higher rates or production output as a unit, and all share in a pool of funds distributed among work group members equally).
§ 345.54
Overtime compensation.
An inmate worker is entitled to overtime pay at a rate of two times the hourly or unit rate for hourly, individual, and group piecework rate workers, when the total hours worked (including administrative pay) exceed the
FPI factory's regularly scheduled workday. Hours worked on days other than the scheduled work week (e.g., Saturday) shall be compensated at the overtime rate.
§ 345.55
Longevity pay.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an inmate earns longevity pay raises after 18 months spent in FPI work status regardless of whether or not the work was continuous. The service may have occurred in one or more FPI factories or shops. An inmate qualifies for longevity pay raises as provided in the table below:

# Length of Service With FPI
After 18 months of service and payable in the 19th month
After 30 months of service and payable in the 31st month
After 42 months of service and payable in the 43rd month
After 60 months of service and payable in the 61st month
After 84 months of service (
more) and payable in the 85th month
Longevity pay allowances shall be added after the wages for each actual hour in pay status have been properly computed.
(b)
Exceptions.
(1) FPI work status during service of a previous sentence with a subsequent break in custody may not be considered in determining longevity pay.
(2) An inmate in segregation or who is given a disciplinary transfer loses any longevity status previously achieved.
(3) An inmate who voluntarily transfers to a non-FPI work assignment loses any longevity status previously achieved. An inmate who leaves FPI to enter education, vocational training, or drug abuse treatment programs, however, generally retains longevity and pay grade status upon return to FPI, unless the inmate withdraws from those programs without a good faith effort to complete them. The decision on whether there was a good faith effort is to be made by the SOI in concert with the staff member in charge of the program.
§ 345.56
Vacation pay.
Inmate workers are granted FPI vacation pay by the SOI when their continued good work performance justifies such pay, based on such criteria as quality of work, attendance and punctuality, attentiveness, and adherence to industry operating regulations. The inmate must submit a written request for vacation time, ordinarily two weeks in advance of the requested vacation time. The work supervisor must recommend to the SOI the vacation time to be taken or paid. Eligibility for vacation pay must be verified by the Business Office prior to approval by the SOI. The SOI may declare an inmate ineligible for vacation credit because of an inmate's unsatisfactory work performance during the month in which such credit was to occur.
(a) An inmate may take accrued vacation time for visits, participation in institution programs or for other good reasons at the discretion of the SOI. Industrial managers should make every reasonable attempt to schedule an inmate worker's vacations so as not to conflict with the workforce requirements of FPI factory production schedules and Inmate Systems Management requirements.
(b) An inmate temporarily assigned to the Industrial detail, e.g., on construction details, also earns vacation credit which he or she must take or be paid for at the end of the temporary assignment.
(c) An inmate must take and/or be paid for vacation credit within sixty days after each annual eligibility date of the inmate's most recent date of assignment to FPI. An inmate who elects not to take vacation time must indicate this in writing. That inmate shall receive pay for the annual vacation credit in a lump sum on the regular monthly payroll. This amount is ordinarily paid within sixty days after the annual eligibility date of the inmate's most recent date of assignment to FPI. An inmate whose employment is terminated by release, reassignment, transfer, or other reasons, and who has unused vacation credit shall be paid for this credit on the monthly payroll.
§ 345.57
Administrative pay.
An inmate excused from a job assignment may receive administrative pay for such circumstances as a general recall for an institution, power outages,
blood donations, or other situations at the discretion of the SOI. Such pay may not exceed an aggregate of three hours per month.
§ 345.58
Holiday pay.
An inmate worker in FPI work status shall receive pay at the standard hourly rate, plus longevity where applicable, for all Federal holidays provided the inmate is in work status on the day before and the day after the holiday occurs. Full-time workers receive one full day's pay. Part-time workers receive one-half day's pay.
§ 345.59
Inmate performance pay.
Inmate workers for FPI may also receive Inmate Performance Pay for participation in programs where this award is made. However, inmate workers may not receive both Industries Pay and Performance Pay for the same program activity. For example, an inmate assigned to a pre-industrial class may not receive FPI pay as well as inmate performance pay for participation in the class.
§ 345.60
Training pay.
Inmates directed by the SOI to take a particular type of training in connection with a FPI job are to receive FPI pay if the training time occurs during routine FPI factory hours of operation. This does not include ABE/GED or pre-industrial training.
§ 345.61
Inmate earnings statement.
Each inmate worker in FPI shall be given a monthly earnings statement while actively working for FPI.
§ 345.62
Inmate accident compensation.
An inmate worker shall be paid lost-time wages while hospitalized or confined to quarters due to work-related injuries (including occupational disease or illnesses directly caused by the worker's job assignments) as specified by the Inmate Accident Compensation Program (28 CFR part 301).
§ 345.63
Funds due deceased inmates.
Funds due a deceased inmate for work performed for FPI are payable to a legal representative of the inmate's estate or in accordance with the law of descent and distribution of the state of domicile.
§ 345.64
Referral of releasable medical data to FPI staff.
The SOI is responsible for ensuring that appropriate releasable information pertaining to an inmate's medical limitation (e.g., back injury) is made available to the FPI staff member who directly supervises the assignment.
§ 345.65
Inmate medical work limitation.
In addition to any prior illnesses or injuries, medical limitations also include any illness or injury sustained by an inmate which necessitates removing the ill worker from an FPI work assignment. If an inmate worker is injured more than once in a comparatively short time, and the circumstances of the injury suggest an awkwardness or ineptitude which in turn indicates that further danger exists, the inmate may be removed to another FPI detail or to a non-FPI detail.
§ 345.66
Claims limitation.
Claims relating to pay and/or benefits must occur within one calendar year of the period of time for which the claim is made. Inmate claims submitted more than one year after the time in question require the approval of the Assistant Director before an inmate may receive such pay and/or benefit.
§ 345.67
Retention of benefits.
(a)
Job retention.
Ordinarily, when an inmate is absent from the job for a significant period of time, the SOI will fill that position with another inmate, and the first inmate will have no entitlement to continued FPI employment.
(1) For up to the first 30 days when an inmate is in medical idle status, that inmate will retain FPI pay grade status, with suspension of actual pay, and will be able to return to FPI when medically able, provided the absence was not because of a FPI work-related injury resulting from the inmate's violation of safety standards. If the medical idle lasts longer than 30 days, was not caused by a violation of safety standards, and the unit team approves the inmate's return to FPI, the SOI
shall place that inmate within the top ten percent of the FPI waiting list.
(2) Likewise, for up to the first 30 days when an inmate is in Administrative Detention, that inmate may retain FPI pay grade status, with actual pay suspended, and will be able to return to FPI, provided the inmate is not found to have committed a prohibited act. If Administrative Detention lasts longer than 30 days, and the inmate is not found to have committed a prohibited act, and the unit team approves the inmate's return to FPI, the SOI shall place that inmate within the top ten percent of the FPI waiting list.
(3) An inmate in Administrative Detention, and found to have committed a prohibited act, may return to FPI work status at the discretion of the SOI.
(4) If an inmate is injured and absent from the job because of a violation of FPI safety standards, the SOI may reassign the inmate within FPI or recommend that the unit team reassign the inmate to a non-FPI work assignment.
(5) If an inmate is transferred from one institution to another for administrative (not disciplinary) reasons, and the unit team approves the inmate's return to FPI, the SOI shall place that inmate within the top ten percent of the FPI waiting list.
(b)
Longevity and vacation credit.
Ordinarily, when an inmate's FPI employment is interrupted, the inmate loses all accumulated longevity and vacation credit with the following exceptions:
(1) The inmate retains longevity and vacation credit when placed in medical idle status, provided the medical idle is not because of a FPI work-related injury resulting from the inmate's violation of safety standards. If the medical idle results from a FPI work-related injury where the inmate was not at fault, the inmate also continues to earn longevity and vacation credit.
(2) Likewise, the inmate retains, and continues earning for up to 30 days, longevity and vacation credit if placed in Administrative Detention, provided the inmate is not found to have committed a prohibited act.
(3) The inmate retains, but does not continue earning, longevity and vacation credit when transferring from one institution to another for administrative (not disciplinary) reasons, when absent from the institution on writ, or when placed in administrative detention and found to have committed a prohibited act.
(c)
Pay grade retention.
Ordinarily, when an inmate's FPI employment is interrupted, that inmate is not entitled to retain his or her pay grade, with the following exceptions.
(1) An inmate retains pay grade status, with actual pay suspended, for up to 30 days in Administrative Detention. However, the inmate is not reimbursed for the time spent in detention.
(2) Likewise, an inmate retains pay grade status for up to 30 days while absent from the institution on writ, with actual pay suspended. The SOI may approve pay grade retention when an inmate is on writ for longer than 30 days on a case-by-case basis.
(3) If an inmate is absent because of a FPI work-related injury where the inmate was not at fault, the inmate retains his or her pay grade, with actual pay suspended.

# Subpart G—Awards Program
§ 345.70
General.
FPI provides incentive awards of various types to inmate workers for special achievements in their work, scholarship, suggestions, for inventions which improve industry processes or safety or which conserve energy or materials consumed in FPI operations, and for outstanding levels of self-development.
§ 345.71
Official commendations.
An inmate worker may receive an official written commendation for any suggestion or invention adopted by FPI, or for any special achievement, as determined by the SOI, related to the inmate's industrial work assignment. A copy of the commendation is to be placed in the inmate's central file.
§ 345.72
Cash bonus or cash award.
An inmate worker may receive a cash bonus or cash award for any suggestion or invention which is adopted by FPI and produces a net savings to FPI of at least $250.00. Cash awards shall be one
percent of the net estimated savings during the first year, with the minimum award being $25.00, and the maximum award being $1,000.00.
§ 345.73
Procedures for granting awards for suggestions or inventions.
Inmate suggestions for improvements in operations or safety, or for conservation of energy or material, must be submitted in writing.
(a) The inmate's immediate supervisor shall review the suggestion and forward it with comments and award recommendation to the SOI.
(b) The SOI shall ensure that all inmate suggestions and/or inventions formally submitted are considered for incentive awards by a committee comprised of Industries personnel designated by the SOI.
(1) The committee is authorized to award a cash award of up to $100.00 or an equivalent gift not to exceed $100.00 in value to an inmate whose suggestion has been adopted. A recommendation for an award in excess of $100.00 shall be forwarded to the Assistant Director for a final decision.
(2) The committee shall forward all recommendations for awards for inventions through the SOI to the Warden. The Warden may choose to add his or her comments before forwarding to the Assistant Director for a final decision.
(3) Incentive awards are the exclusive methods for recognizing inmates for suggestions or inventions.
§ 345.74
Awards for special achievements for inmate workers.
While recognition of inmate worker special achievements may originate from any FPI staff member, the achievement ordinarily will be submitted in writing by the inmate's immediate supervisor.
(a) The SOI shall appoint a local institution committee to consider inmates for special achievement awards.
(b) The committee shall forward its recommendations to the SOI, who is authorized to approve individual awards (cash or gifts) not to exceed $100 in value. A recommendation for an award in excess of $100 (cash or gifts) shall be forwarded, with the Superintendent's recommendation and the justification for it, through the Warden to the Assistant Director. The Warden may submit comments on the recommendation.

# Subpart H—FPI Inmate Training and Scholarship Programs
§ 345.80
General.
As earnings permit, FPI provides appropriate training for inmates which is directly related to the inmate worker's job assignment. Additionally, FPI administers a scholarship program to provide inmates with an opportunity to begin, or to continue with business and industry courses or vocational training.
(a) An applicant for FPI-funded training programs should be evaluated to determine sufficient interest and preparation to successfully complete the course content. The evaluation may be done by the Education Department, unit team, or other qualified personnel.
(b) An inmate selected to participate in FPI-funded training programs ordinarily must have enough sentence time remaining to serve to complete the training.
§ 345.81
Pre-industrial training.
FPI encourages the development and use of pre-industrial training programs. Such training ordinarily provides benefits to the inmate and to the FPI factory. Pre-industrial training also provides an additional management tool for replacing inmate idleness with constructive activity. Accordingly, each FPI factory location may provide a pre-industrial training program.
(a) Pre-industrial program trainees shall ordinarily begin at the entry level pay grade (grade 5). Positions for pre-industrial training programs are filled in the same manner as other grade five positions.
(b) Pre-industrial training is not a prerequisite for work placement if the inmate already possesses the needed skill.
(c) If pre-industrial training is available and the worker has not completed both the skill training and orientation phases of pre-industrial training, the
inmate should be put into the first available training class.
(d) When pre-industrial training is not available, new FPI assignees will receive on-the-job training in pre-industrial pay status for a period of at least 30 days before being promoted into available fourth grade jobs.
§ 345.82
Apprenticeship training.
FPI provides inmate workers with an opportunity to participate in apprenticeship training programs to the extent practicable. Such programs help prepare workers for post-release employment in a variety of trades. Apprentices are given related trades classroom instruction in addition to the skill training during work hours, where necessary.
§ 345.83
Job safety training.
FPI provides inmates with regular job safety training which is developed and scheduled in coordination with the institution Safety Manager. Participation in the training shall be documented in a safety training record signed by the inmate.
§ 345.84
The FPI scholarship fund.
FPI shall award post-secondary school scholarships to selected, qualified inmate workers. These scholarships provide an inmate with the opportunity to begin or continue with business and industry courses or vocational training as approved and deemed appropriate by the Supervisor of Education.
(a)
Eligibility requirements.
The SOI and the Supervisor of Education at each institution shall develop application procedures to include, at a minimum, the following criteria:
(1) The inmate shall be a full-time FPI worker.
(2) The inmate has a favorable recommendation for participation from his or her work supervisor.
(3) The inmate meets all relevant institution requirements for participation (e.g. disciplinary record, custody level).
(4) The inmate is accepted by the institution of higher learning offering the course or program which is requested.
(5) The inmate must maintain a verifiable average of “C” or better to continue program eligibility.
(6) Before beginning the course of study, the inmate must sign an agreement to provide the SOI with an unaltered, original copy of his or her grades.
(b)
Scholarship selection procedures.
FPI scholarship awards shall be made by a three member Selection Committee comprised of the SOI, the Supervisor of Education, and one other person designated by the SOI.
(c)
Scholarship program operation.
(1) Ordinarily, one scholarship may be awarded per school period for every fifty workers assigned. At least one scholarship may be awarded at each institution location, regardless of the number of inmates assigned.
(2) Individual scholarships ordinarily should not exceed the cost of tuition and books for one course. Where several courses may be taken for the same cost as one, the inmate worker may be allowed to take more than one course.
(3) Scholarship monies are to be paid only to the institution providing instruction, or to the Education Department for transfer of funds to the college, university, or technical institution providing instruction.
(4) An inmate may not receive more than one scholarship per school period.
(5) An inmate must maintain at least a “C” average to be continued as eligible for further assistance. An inmate earning less than “C” must wait one school period of eligibility before reapplying for further assistance. Where a course grade is based on a “pass/fail” system, the course must be “passed” to be eligible for further assistance.
(6) An inmate awarded a correspondence course must successfully complete the course during a school year (e.g., 2 semesters, 3 quarters).
(7) An inmate receiving scholarship aid must have approval from the SOI and the Supervisor of Education before withdrawing from classes for good reason. An inmate withdrawing or “dropping” courses without permission shall wait one school year before applying for further scholarship assistance. An inmate may withdraw from courses without penalty for medical or non-disciplinary administrative reasons such
as transfer, writ, release, etc., without first securing permission, although withdrawals for medical reasons must be certified in writing by the Hospital Administrator.
PARTS 346-399 [RESERVED]
28 CFR Ch. V (7-1-25 Edition)
Bureau of Prisons, Justice

# CHAPTER V—BUREAU OF PRISONS, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

# SUBCHAPTER A—GENERAL MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
Part
Page
500
General definitions
677
501
Scope of rules
677
503
Bureau of Prisons Central Office, regional offices, institutions, and staff training centers
680
505
Cost of incarceration fee
680
506
Inmate commissary account
681
511
General management policy
682
512
Research
684
513
Access to records
689

# SUBCHAPTER B—INMATE ADMISSION, CLASSIFICATION, AND TRANSFER
522
Admission to institution
696
523
Computation of sentence
697
524
Classification of inmates
706
527
Transfers
713

# SUBCHAPTER C—INSTITUTIONAL MANAGEMENT
540
Contact with persons in the community
716
541
Inmate discipline and special housing units
737
542
Administrative remedy
759
543
Legal matters
762
544
Education
768
545
Work and compensation
775
547
Food service
781
548
Religious programs
781
549
Medical services
784
550
Drug programs
794
551
Miscellaneous
799
552
Custody
810
553
Inmate property
816

# SUBCHAPTER D—COMMUNITY PROGRAMS AND RELEASE
570
Community programs
821
571
Release from custody
826
572
Parole
832
573-599
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER A—GENERAL MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
Pt. 500

# PART 500—GENERAL DEFINITIONS

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 3621, 3622, 3624, 4001, 4042, 4081, 4082 (Repealed in part as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 5006-5024 (Repealed October 12, 1984 as to offenses committed after that date), 5039; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510; 28 CFR 0.95-0.99.
§ 500.1
Definitions.
As used in this chapter,
(a) The
Warden
means the chief executive officer of a U.S. Penitentiary, Federal Correctional Institution, Medical Center for Federal Prisoners, Federal Prison Camp, Federal Detention Center, Metropolitan Correctional Center, or any federal penal or correctional institution or facility.
Warden
also includes any staff member with authority explicitly delegated by any chief executive officer.
(b)
Staff
means any employee of the Bureau of Prisons or Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
(c)
Inmate
means all persons in the custody of the Federal Bureau of Prisons or Bureau contract facilities, including persons charged with or convicted of offenses against the United States; D.C. Code felony offenders; and persons held as witnesses, detainees, or otherwise.
(d)
Institution
means a U.S. Penitentiary, a Federal Correctional Institution, a Federal Prison Camp, a Federal Detention Center, a Metropolitan Correctional Center, a Metropolitan Detention Center, a U.S. Medical Center for Federal Prisoners, a Federal Medical Center, or a Federal Transportation Center.
(e)
Shall
means an obligation is imposed.
(f)
May
means a discretionary right, privilege, or power is conferred.
(g)
May not
means a prohibition is imposed.
(h) Contraband is material prohibited by law, regulation, or policy that can reasonably be expected to cause physical injury or adversely affect the safety, security, or good order of the facility or protection of the public.
(i)
Qualified health personnel
includes physicians, dentists, and other professional and technical workers who engage in activities within their respective levels of health care training or experience which support, complement, or supplement the administration of health care.
[44 FR 38244, June 29, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 48969, Oct. 21, 1983; 56 FR 31530, July 10, 1991; 63 FR 55775, Oct. 16, 1998; 66 FR 55065, Oct. 31, 2001; 80 FR 45885, Aug. 3, 2015]
Pt. 501

# PART 501—SCOPE OF RULES
Sec.
501.1
Bureau of Prisons emergencies.
501.2
National security cases.
501.3
Prevention of acts of violence and terrorism.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 3621, 3622, 3624, 4001, 4042, 4081, 4082 (Repealed in part as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 4161-4166 (Repealed as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 5006-5024 (Repealed October 12, 1984 as to offenses committed after that date), 5039; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510.
§ 501.1
Bureau of Prisons emergencies.
(a)
Suspension of rules during an emergency.
The Director of the Bureau of Prisons (Bureau) may suspend operation of the rules in this chapter as necessary to handle an institutional emergency or an emergency affecting the Bureau. When there is an institutional emergency which the Director or Warden considers a threat to human life or safety, the Director or Warden may suspend the operation of the rules in this chapter as necessary to handle the emergency.
(b)
Responsibilities of the Warden
—(1)
Notifying the Director.
If the Warden suspends operation of the rules, the Warden must, within 24 hours of the suspension or as soon as practicable, notify the Director by providing written documentation which:
(i) Describes the institutional emergency that threatens human life or safety;
(ii) Sets forth reasons why suspension of the rules is necessary to handle the institutional emergency;
(iii) Estimates how long suspension of the rules will last; and
(iv) Describes criteria which would allow normal rules application to resume.
(2)
Submitting certification to Director of continuing emergency.
30 days after the Warden suspends operation of the rules, and every 30 days thereafter, the Warden must submit to the Director written certification that an institutional emergency threatening human life or safety and warranting suspension of the rules continues to exist. If the Warden does not submit this certification to the Director, or if the Director so orders at any time, the suspension of the rules will cease.
[70 FR 29191, May 20, 2005]
§ 501.2
National security cases.
(a) Upon direction of the Attorney General, the Director, Bureau of Prisons, may authorize the Warden to implement special administrative measures that are reasonably necessary to prevent disclosure of classified information upon written certification to the Attorney General by the head of a member agency of the United States intelligence community that the unauthorized disclosure of such information would pose a threat to the national security and that there is a danger that the inmate will disclose such information. These special administrative measures ordinarily may include housing the inmate in administrative detention and/or limiting certain privileges, including, but not limited to, correspondence, visiting, interviews with representatives of the news media, and use of the telephone, as is reasonably necessary to prevent the disclosure of classified information. The authority of the Director under this paragraph may not be delegated below the level of Acting Director.
(b) Designated staff shall provide to the affected inmate, as soon as practicable, written notification of the restrictions imposed and the basis for these restrictions. The notice's statement as to the basis may be limited in the interest of prison security or safety or national security. The inmate shall sign for and receive a copy of the notification.
(c) Initial placement of an inmate in administrative detention and/or any limitation of the inmate's privileges in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section may be imposed for a period of time as determined by the Director, Bureau of Prisons, up to one year. Special restrictions imposed in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section may be extended thereafter by the Director, Bureau of Prisons, in increments not to exceed one year, but only if the Attorney General receives from the head of a member agency of the United States intelligence community an additional written certification that, based on the information available to the agency, there is a danger that the inmate will disclose classified information and that the unauthorized disclosure of such information would pose a threat to the national security. The authority of the Director under this paragraph may not be delegated below the level of Acting Director.
(d) The affected inmate may seek review of any special restrictions imposed in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section through the Administrative Remedy Program, 28 CFR part 542.
(e) Other appropriate officials of the Department of Justice having custody of persons for whom special administrative measures are required may exercise the same authorities under this section as the Director of the Bureau of Prisons and the Warden.
[62 FR 33732, June 20, 1997, as amended at 66 FR 55065, Oct. 31, 2001]
§ 501.3
Prevention of acts of violence and terrorism.
(a) Upon direction of the Attorney General, the Director, Bureau of Prisons, may authorize the Warden to implement special administrative measures that are reasonably necessary to protect persons against the risk of death or serious bodily injury. These procedures may be implemented upon written notification to the Director, Bureau of Prisons, by the Attorney General or, at the Attorney General's direction, by the head of a federal law enforcement agency, or the head of a member agency of the United States intelligence community, that there is a
substantial risk that a prisoner's communications or contacts with persons could result in death or serious bodily injury to persons, or substantial damage to property that would entail the risk of death or serious bodily injury to persons. These special administrative measures ordinarily may include housing the inmate in administrative detention and/or limiting certain privileges, including, but not limited to, correspondence, visiting, interviews with representatives of the news media, and use of the telephone, as is reasonably necessary to protect persons against the risk of acts of violence or terrorism. The authority of the Director under this paragraph may not be delegated below the level of Acting Director.
(b) Designated staff shall provide to the affected inmate, as soon as practicable, written notification of the restrictions imposed and the basis for these restrictions. The notice's statement as to the basis may be limited in the interest of prison security or safety or to protect against acts of violence or terrorism. The inmate shall sign for and receive a copy of the notification.
(c) Initial placement of an inmate in administrative detention and/or any limitation of the inmate's privileges in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section may be imposed for up to 120 days or, with the approval of the Attorney General, a longer period of time not to exceed one year. Special restrictions imposed in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section may be extended thereafter by the Director, Bureau of Prisons, in increments not to exceed one year, upon receipt by the Director of an additional written notification from the Attorney General, or, at the Attorney General's direction, from the head of a federal law enforcement agency or the head of a member agency of the United States intelligence community, that there continues to be a substantial risk that the inmate's communications or contacts with other persons could result in death or serious bodily injury to persons, or substantial damage to property that would entail the risk of death or serious bodily injury to persons. The authority of the Director under this paragraph may not be delegated below the level of Acting Director.
(d) In any case where the Attorney General specifically so orders, based on information from the head of a federal law enforcement or intelligence agency that reasonable suspicion exists to believe that a particular inmate may use communications with attorneys or their agents to further or facilitate acts of terrorism, the Director, Bureau of Prisons, shall, in addition to the special administrative measures imposed under paragraph (a) of this section, provide appropriate procedures for the monitoring or review of communications between that inmate and attorneys or attorneys' agents who are traditionally covered by the attorney-client privilege, for the purpose of deterring future acts that could result in death or serious bodily injury to persons, or substantial damage to property that would entail the risk of death or serious bodily injury to persons.
(1) The certification by the Attorney General under this paragraph (d) shall be in addition to any findings or determinations relating to the need for the imposition of other special administrative measures as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, but may be incorporated into the same document.
(2) Except in the case of prior court authorization, the Director, Bureau of Prisons, shall provide written notice to the inmate and to the attorneys involved, prior to the initiation of any monitoring or review under this paragraph (d). The notice shall explain:
(i) That, notwithstanding the provisions of part 540 of this chapter or other rules, all communications between the inmate and attorneys may be monitored, to the extent determined to be reasonably necessary for the purpose of deterring future acts of violence or terrorism;
(ii) That communications between the inmate and attorneys or their agents are not protected by the attorney-client privilege if they would facilitate criminal acts or a conspiracy to commit criminal acts, or if those communications are not related to the seeking or providing of legal advice.
(3) The Director, Bureau of Prisons, with the approval of the Assistant Attorney General for the Criminal Division, shall employ appropriate procedures to ensure that all attorney-client communications are reviewed for privilege claims and that any properly privileged materials (including, but not limited to, recordings of privileged communications) are not retained during the course of the monitoring. To protect the attorney-client privilege and to ensure that the investigation is not compromised by exposure to privileged material relating to the investigation or to defense strategy, a privilege team shall be designated, consisting of individuals not involved in the underlying investigation. The monitoring shall be conducted pursuant to procedures designed to minimize the intrusion into privileged material or conversations. Except in cases where the person in charge of the privilege team determines that acts of violence or terrorism are imminent, the privilege team shall not disclose any information unless and until such disclosure has been approved by a federal judge.
(e) The affected inmate may seek review of any special restrictions imposed in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section through the Administrative Remedy Program, 28 CFR part 542.
(f) Other appropriate officials of the Department of Justice having custody of persons for whom special administrative measures are required may exercise the same authorities under this section as the Director of the Bureau of Prisons and the Warden.
[62 FR 33732, June 20, 1997, as amended at 66 FR 55065, Oct. 31, 2001]
Pt. 503

# PART 503—BUREAU OF PRISONS CENTRAL OFFICE, REGIONAL OFFICES, INSTITUTIONS AND STAFF TRAINING CENTERS

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 3621, 3622, 3624, 4001, 4003, 4042, 4081, 4082 (Repealed in part as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 4161-4166 (Repealed in part as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 5006-5024 (Repealed October 12, 1984, as to offenses committed after that date), 5039; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510.

# Source:
70 FR 67091, Nov. 4, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 503.1
Structure of the Bureau of Prisons.
The Bureau of Prisons consists of a Central Office, located at 320 First Street, NW., Washington, DC 20534, a Staff Training Center, and six Regional Offices (Northeast, Mid-Atlantic, Southeast, North Central, South Central, and Western). For further information, please contact the Central Office at the address referenced, or visit
www.bop.gov
for a complete list of contact information for Bureau Regional Offices and facilities.
Pt. 505

# PART 505—COST OF INCARCERATION FEE
Sec.
505.1
Purpose and scope.
505.2
Annual determination of average cost of incarceration.
505.3
Inmates exempted from fee assessment.
505.4
Calculation of assessment by unit staff.
505.5
Waiver of fee by Warden.
505.6
Procedures for payment.
505.7
Procedures for final disposition.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 3621, 3622, 3624, 4001, 4042, 4081, 4082 (Repealed in part as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 5006-5024 (Repealed October 12, 1984 as to offenses committed after that date), 5039; 31 U.S.C. 3717; Pub. L. 102-395, 106 Stat. 1842 (18 U.S.C. 4001 note); 28 CFR 0.95-0.99.

# Source:
64 FR 43881, Aug. 11, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 505.1
Purpose and scope.
This part establishes procedures for the assessment and collection of a fee to cover the cost of incarceration. The Director of the Bureau of Prisons has been delegated the authority of the Attorney General (see 28 CFR 0.96c) to assess and collect a fee imposed by the Bureau in the event the court neither imposes nor waives a fine pursuant to the Sentencing Guidelines 5E1.2(d). For purposes of this part, revocation of parole or supervised release is to be treated as a separate period of incarceration for which a fee may be imposed.
§ 505.2
Annual determination of average cost of incarceration.
Pursuant to 28 CFR 0.96c, the Bureau of Prisons staff is responsible for calculating the annual average cost of incarceration. This calculation is reviewed annually and the revised figure is published as a notice in the
Federal Register.
§ 505.3
Inmates exempted from fee assessment.
Inmates who began service of sentence before January 1, 1995, or who have had a fine either imposed or expressly waived by the United States District Court, pursuant to Section 5E1.2 (e) of the United States Sentencing Guidelines, or any successor provisions, are exempt from fee assessment otherwise required by this part.
§ 505.4
Calculation of assessment by unit staff.
Bureau of Prisons Unit Team staff are responsible for computing the amount of the fee to be paid by each inmate who has not been exempted from fee assessment. The inmate will only be assessed an amount once for the cost of incarceration for each separate period of incarceration.
(a) Unit Team staff are to rely exclusively on the information contained in the Presentence Investigation Report and findings and orders of the sentencing court in order to determine the extent of an inmate's assets, liabilities and dependents.
(b) The fee is assessed in accordance with the following formula: If an inmate's assets are equal to or less than the poverty level, as established by the United States Department of Health and Human Services and published annually in the
Federal Register,
no fee is to be imposed. If an inmate's assets are above the poverty level, Unit Team staff are to impose a fee equal to the inmate's assets above the poverty level up to the average cost to the Bureau of Prisons of confining an inmate for one year.
(c) If the amount of time that the inmate is in custody is less than 334 days (including pretrial custody time), the maximum fee to be imposed is to be computed by prorating the fee on a monthly basis.
§ 505.5
Waiver of fee by Warden.
The Warden may reduce or waive the fee if the inmate establishes that:
(a) He or she is not able and, even with the use of a reasonable installment schedule, is not likely to become able to pay all or part of the fee, or
(b) Imposition of a fee would unduly burden the inmate's dependents.
§ 505.6
Procedures for payment.
Fees imposed pursuant to this part are due and payable after notice of the Unit Team actions. When the inmate participates in the inmate financial responsibility program (see 28 CFR part 545, subpart B), fees are to be included under the category “other federal government obligations” and are to be paid before other financial obligations included in that same category. Fees may be subject to interest charges.
§ 505.7
Procedures for final disposition.
Before the inmate completes his or her sentence, Unit Team staff must review the status of the inmate's fee. Any unpaid amount will be referred for collection in accordance with Federal Claims Collection Standards (4 CFR Chapter II).
Pt. 506

# PART 506—INMATE COMMISSARY ACCOUNT
Sec.
506.1
What is the purpose of individual inmate commissary accounts?
506.2
How may family, friends, or other sources deposit funds into an inmate commissary account?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 3621, 3622, 3624, 4001, 4042, 4081, 4082 (Repealed in part as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 5006-5024 (Repealed October 12, 1984 as to offenses committed after that date), 5039; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510; 31 U.S.C. 1321.

# Source:
69 FR 40317, July 2, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 506.1
What is the purpose of individual inmate commissary accounts?
The purpose of individual inmate commissary accounts is to allow the Bureau to maintain inmates' monies while they are incarcerated. Family,
friends, or other sources may deposit funds into these accounts.
§ 506.2
How may family, friends, or other sources deposit funds into an inmate commissary account?
(a)
Family and friends
must mail deposits to the centralized inmate commissary account at the address we provide.
(1) The deposit envelope must not contain any enclosures intended for delivery to the inmate. We may dispose of any enclosure.
(2) The deposit must be in the form of a money order made out to the inmate's full name and complete register number. We will return checks to the sender provided the check contains an adequate return address.
(b)
Other sources,
(such as tax refunds, dividends from stocks, or state benefits) must be forwarded for deposit to the centralized inmate commissary account.
Pt. 511

# PART 511—GENERAL MANAGEMENT POLICY
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Searching and Detaining or Arresting Persons Other Than Inmates
Sec.
511.10
Purpose and scope.
511.11
Prohibited activities.
511.12
Prohibited objects.
511.13
Searches before entering, or while inside, a Bureau facility or Bureau grounds.
511.14
Notification of possible search.
511.15
When searches will be conducted.
511.16
How searches will be conducted.
511.17
When a non-inmate will be denied entry to or required to leave a Bureau facility or Bureau grounds.
511.18
When Bureau staff can arrest and detain a non-inmate.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 751, 752, 1791, 1792, 1793, 3050, 3621, 3622, 3624, 4001, 4012, 4042, 4081, 4082 (Repealed as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 5006-5024 (Repealed October 12, 1984 as to offenses committed after that date), 5039; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510.

# Source:
49 FR 44057, Nov. 1, 1984, unless otherwise noted.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Searching and Detaining or Arresting Non-Inmates

# Source:
72 FR 31180, June 6, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 511.10
Purpose and scope.
(a) This subpart facilitates our legal obligations to ensure the safety, security, and orderly operation of Bureau of Prisons (Bureau) facilities, and protect the public. These goals are furthered by carefully managing non-inmates, the objects they bring, and their activities, while inside a Bureau facility or upon the grounds of any Bureau facility (Bureau grounds).
(b)
Purpose.
This subpart covers:
(1) Searching non-inmates and their belongings (for example, bags, boxes, vehicles, containers in vehicles, jackets or coats, etc.) to prevent prohibited objects from entering a Bureau facility or Bureau grounds;
(2) Authorizing, denying, and/or terminating a non-inmate's presence inside a Bureau facility or upon Bureau grounds; and
(3) Authorizing Bureau staff to remove from inside a Bureau facility or upon Bureau grounds, and possibly arrest and detain, non-inmates suspected of engaging in prohibited activity.
(c)
Scope/Application.
This subpart applies to all persons who wish to enter, or are present inside a Bureau facility or upon Bureau grounds, other than inmates in Bureau custody. This subpart applies at all Bureau facilities and Bureau grounds, including administrative offices.
§ 511.11
Prohibited activities.
(a) “Prohibited activities” include any activities that could jeopardize the Bureau's ability to ensure the safety, security, and orderly operation of Bureau facilities, and protect the public, whether or not such activities are criminal in nature.
(b) Examples of “prohibited activities” include, but are not limited to: Introducing, or attempting to introduce, prohibited objects into a Bureau facility or upon Bureau grounds; assisting an escape; and any other conduct that violates criminal laws or is prohibited by federal regulations or Bureau policies.
§ 511.12
Prohibited objects.
(a) “Prohibited objects,” as defined in 18 U.S.C. 1791(d)(1), include any objects that could jeopardize the Bureau's ability to ensure the safety, security, and orderly operation of Bureau facilities, and protect the public.
(b) Examples of “prohibited objects” include, but are not limited to, the following items and their related paraphernalia: Weapons; explosives; drugs; intoxicants; currency; cameras of any type; recording equipment; telephones; radios; pagers; electronic devices; and any other objects that violate criminal laws or are prohibited by Federal regulations or Bureau policies.
§ 511.13
Searches before entering, or while inside, a Bureau facility or Bureau grounds.
Bureau staff may search you and your belongings (for example, bags, boxes, vehicles, containers in vehicles, jackets or coats, etc.) before entering, or while inside, any Bureau facilities or Bureau grounds, to keep out prohibited objects.
§ 511.14
Notification of possible search.
We display conspicuous notices at the entrance to all Bureau facilities, informing all non-inmates that they, and their belongings, are subject to search before entering, or while inside, Bureau facilities or grounds. Furthermore, these regulations and Bureau national and local policies provide additional notice that you and your belongings may be searched before entering, or while inside, Bureau facilities or grounds. By entering or attempting to enter a Bureau facility or Bureau grounds, non-inmates consent to being searched in accordance with these regulations and Bureau policy.
§ 511.15
When searches will be conducted.
You and your belongings may be searched, either randomly or based on reasonable suspicion, before entering, or while inside, a Bureau facility or Bureau grounds, as follows:
(a)
Random Searches.
This type of search may occur at any time, and is not based on any particular suspicion that a non-inmate is attempting to bring a prohibited object into a Bureau facility or Bureau grounds.
(1) Random searches must be impartial and not discriminate among non-inmates on the basis of age, race, religion, national origin, or sex.
(2) Non-inmates will be given the option of either consenting to random searches as a condition of entry, or refusing such searches and leaving Bureau grounds. However, if a non-inmate refuses to submit to a random search and expresses an intent to leave Bureau grounds, he or she may still be required to be searched if “reasonable suspicion” exists as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Reasonable Suspicion Searches.
Notwithstanding staff authority to conduct random searches, staff may also conduct
reasonable suspicion
searches to ensure the safety, security, and orderly operation of Bureau facilities, and protect the public. “Reasonable suspicion” exists if a staff member knows of facts and circumstances that warrant rational inferences by a person with correctional experience that a non-inmate may be engaged in, attempting, or about to engage in, criminal or other prohibited activity.
§ 511.16
How searches will be conducted.
You may be searched by any of the following methods before entering, or while inside, a Bureau facility or Bureau grounds:
(a)
Electronically.
(1) You and your belongings may be electronically searched for the presence of contraband, either randomly or upon reasonable suspicion.
(2) Examples of electronic searches include, but are not limited to, metal detectors and ion spectrometry devices.
(b)
Pat Search.
(1) You and your belongings may be pat searched either randomly or upon reasonable suspicion.
(2) A pat search of your person or belongings involves a staff member pressing his/her hands on your outer clothing, or the outer surface of your belongings, to determine whether prohibited objects are present.
(3) Whenever possible, pat searches of your person will be performed by staff members of the same sex. Pat searches
may be conducted by staff members of the opposite sex only in emergency situations with the Warden's authorization.
(c)
Visual Search.
You and your belongings may be visually searched as follows:
(1)
Person.
(i) A visual search of your person involves removing all articles of clothing, including religious headwear, to allow a visual (non-tactile) inspection of your body surfaces and cavities.
(ii) Visual searches of your person must always be authorized by the Warden or his/her designee and based on reasonable suspicion; random visual searches are prohibited.
(iii) When authorized, visual searches will be performed discreetly, in a private area away from others, and by staff members of the same sex as the non-inmate being searched. Visual searches may be conducted by staff members of the opposite sex in emergency situations with the Warden's authorization.
(iv) Body cavity (tactile) searches of non-inmates are prohibited.
(2)
Belongings.
A visual search of your belongings involves opening and exposing all contents for visual and manual inspection, and may be done either as part of a random search or with reasonable suspicion.
(d)
Drug Testing.
(1) You may be tested for use of intoxicating substances by any currently reliable testing method, including, but not limited to, breathalyzers and urinalysis.
(2) Drug testing must always be authorized by the Warden or his/her designee and must be based on reasonable suspicion that you are under the influence of an intoxicating substance upon entering, or while inside, a Bureau facility or Bureau grounds.
(3) Searches of this type will always be performed discreetly, in a private area away from others, and by staff members adequately trained to perform the test. Whenever possible, urinalysis tests will be conducted by staff members of the same sex as the non-inmate being tested. Urinalysis tests may be conducted by staff members of the opposite sex only in emergency situations with the Warden's authorization.
§ 511.17
When a non-inmate will be denied entry to or required to leave a Bureau facility or Bureau grounds.
At the Warden's, or his/her designee's, discretion, and based on this subpart, you may be denied entry to, or required to leave, a Bureau facility or Bureau grounds if:
(a) You refuse to be searched under this subpart; or
(b) There is reasonable suspicion that you may be engaged in, attempting, or about to engage in, prohibited activity that jeopardizes the Bureau's ability to ensure the safety, security, and orderly operation of its facilities, or protect the public. “Reasonable suspicion,” for this purpose, may be based on the results of a search conducted under this subpart, or any other reliable information.
§ 511.18
When Bureau staff can arrest and detain a non-inmate.
(a) You may be arrested and detained by Bureau staff anytime there is probable cause indicating that you have violated or attempted to violate applicable criminal laws while at a Bureau facility, as authorized by 18 U.S.C. 3050.
(b) “Probable cause” exists when specific facts and circumstances lead a reasonably cautious person (not necessarily a law enforcement officer) to believe a violation of criminal law has occurred, and warrants consideration for prosecution.
(c) Non-inmates arrested by Bureau staff under this regulation will be physically secured, using minimally necessary force and restraints, in a private area of the facility away from others. Appropriate law enforcement will be immediately summoned to investigate the incident, secure evidence, and commence criminal prosecution.
Pt. 512

# PART 512—RESEARCH
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Research
Sec.
512.10
Purpose and scope.
512.11
Requirements for research projects and researchers.
512.12
Content of research proposal.
512.13
Institutional Review Board.
512.14
Submission and processing of proposal.
512.15
Access to Bureau of Prisons records.
512.16
Informed consent.
512.17
Monitoring approved research projects.
512.18
Termination or suspension.
512.19
Reports.
512.20
Publication of results of research project.
512.21
Copyright provisions.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 3621, 3622, 3624, 4001, 4042, 4081, 4082 (Repealed in part as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 5006-5024 (Repealed October 12, 1984 as to offenses committed after that date), 5039; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510; 28 CFR 0.95-0.99.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Research

# Source:
59 FR 13860, Mar. 23, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 512.10
Purpose and scope.
General provisions for the protection of human subjects during the conduct of research are contained in 28 CFR part 46. The provisions of this subpart B specify additional requirements for prospective researchers (both employees and non-employees) to obtain approval to conduct research within the Bureau of Prisons (Bureau) and responsibilities of Bureau staff in processing proposals and monitoring research projects. Although some research may be exempt from 28 CFR part 46 under § 46.101(b)(5), as determined by the Office of Research and Evaluation (ORE) of the Bureau, no research is exempt from 28 CFR part 512. For the purpose of this subpart, implementation of Bureau programmatic or operational initiatives made through pilot projects is not considered to be research.
[59 FR 13860, Mar. 23, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 6661, Feb. 12, 1997]
§ 512.11
Requirements for research projects and researchers.
(a) Except as provided for in paragraph (b) of this section, the Bureau requires the following:
(1) In all research projects the rights, health, and human dignity of individuals involved must be respected.
(2) The project must have an adequate research design and contribute to the advancement of knowledge about corrections.
(3) The project must not involve medical experimentation, cosmetic research, or pharmaceutical testing.
(4) The project must minimize risk to subjects; risks to subjects must be reasonable in relation to anticipated benefits. The selection of subjects within any one institution must be equitable. When applicable, informed consent must be sought and documented (see §§ 512.15 and 512.16).
(5) Incentives may not be offered to help persuade inmate subjects to participate. However, soft drinks and snacks to be consumed at the test setting may be offered. Reasonable accommodations such as nominal monetary recompense for time and effort may be offered to non-confined research subjects who are both:
(i) No longer in Bureau of Prisons custody, and
(ii) Participating in authorized research being conducted by Bureau employees or contractors.
(6) The researcher must have academic preparation or experience in the area of study of the proposed research.
(7) The researcher must assume responsibility for actions of any person engaged to participate in the research project as an associate, assistant, or subcontractor to the researcher.
(8) Except as noted in the informed consent statement to the subject, the researcher must not provide research information which identifies a subject to any person without that subject's prior written consent to release the information. For example, research information identifiable to a particular individual cannot be admitted as evidence or used for any purpose in any action, suit or other judicial, administrative, or legislative proceeding without the written consent of the individual to whom the data pertains.
(9) The researcher must adhere to applicable provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974 and regulations pursuant to this Act.
(10) The research design must be compatible with both the operation of prison facilities and protection of human subjects. The researcher must observe the rules of the institution or
office in which the research is conducted.
(11) Any researcher who is a non-employee of the Bureau must sign a statement in which the researcher agrees to adhere to the provisions of this subpart.
(12) Except for computerized data records maintained at an official Department of Justice site, records which contain nondisclosable information directly traceable to a specific person may not be stored in, or introduced into, an electronic retrieval system.
(13) If the researcher is conducting a study of special interest to the Office of Research and Evaluation (ORE), but the study is not a joint project involving ORE, the researcher may be asked to provide ORE with the computerized research data, not identifiable to individual subjects, accompanied by detailed documentation. These arrangements must be negotiated prior to the beginning of the data collection phase of the project.
(14) The researcher must submit planned methodological changes in a research project to the IRB for approval, and may be required to revise study procedures in accordance with the new methodology.
(b) Requests from Federal agencies, the Congress, the Federal judiciary, or State or local governments to collect information about areas for which they are responsible and requests by private organizations for organizational rather than personal information from Bureau staff shall be reviewed by ORE to determine which provisions of this subpart may be waived without jeopardizing the safety of human subjects. ORE shall document in writing the waiver of any specific provision along with the justification.
[62 FR 6661, Feb. 12, 1997]
§ 512.12
Content of research proposal.
When submitting a research proposal, the applicant shall provide the following information:
(a) A summary statement which includes:
(1) Name(s) and current affiliation(s) of the researcher(s);
(2) Title of the study;
(3) Purpose of the project;
(4) Location of the project;
(5) Methods to be employed;
(6) Anticipated results;
(7) Duration of the study;
(8) Number of subjects (staff/inmates) required and amount of time required from each; and
(9) Indication of risk or discomfort involved as a result of participation.
(b) A comprehensive statement which includes:
(1) Review of related literature;
(2) Detailed description of the research method;
(3) Significance of anticipated results and their contribution to the advancement of knowledge;
(4) Specific resources required from the Bureau;
(5) Description of all possible risks, discomforts, and benefits to individual subjects or a class of subjects, and a discussion of the likelihood that the risks and discomforts will actually occur;
(6) Description of steps taken to minimize any risks described in (b)(5) of this section.
(7) Description of physical and/or administrative procedures to be followed to:
(i) Ensure the security of any individually identifiable data that are being collected for the project, and
(ii) Destroy research records or remove individual identifiers from those records when the research has been completed.
(8) Description of any anticipated effects of the research project on institutional programs and operations; and
(9) Relevant research materials such as vitae, endorsements, sample informed consent statements, questionnaires, and interview schedules.
(c) A statement regarding assurances and certification required by 28 CFR part 46, if applicable.
§ 512.13
Institutional Review Board.
(a) The Bureau of Prisons' central institutional review board shall be called the Bureau Research Review Board (BRRB). It shall consist of the Chief, ORE, at least four other members, and one alternate, appointed by the Director, and shall meet a sufficient number of times to insure that each project covered by 28 CFR part 46 receives an annual review. A majority of members
shall not be Bureau employees. The BRRB shall include an individual with legal expertise and a representative for inmates whom the Director determines is able to identify with inmate concerns and evaluate objectively a research proposal's impact on, and relevance to, inmates and to the correctional process.
(b) The Chief, ORE, shall serve as chairperson of the BRRB. If a potential conflict of interest exists for the BRRB chairperson on a particular research proposal, the Assistant Director, Information, Policy, and Public Affairs Division, shall appoint another individual to serve as chairperson on matters pertaining to that project.
§ 512.14
Submission and processing of proposal.
(a) An applicant may submit a preliminary research proposal for review by the Office of Research and Evaluation, Federal Bureau of Prisons, 320 First Street, NW., Washington, DC 20534. Staff response to the preliminary proposal does not constitute a final decision.
(b) If the study is to be conducted at only one institution, the applicant shall submit a formal proposal to the warden of that institution. Proposal processing will be as follows:
(1) The warden shall appoint a local research review board to consult with operational staff, to evaluate the proposal for compliance with research policy, and to make recommendations to the warden. The local research review board is encouraged, but not required, to meet the membership requirements of an IRB, as specified in 28 CFR part 46.
(2) The warden shall review the comments of the board, make a recommendation regarding the proposal, and forward the proposal package to the Regional Director, with a copy to the Chief, ORE.
(3) The Regional Director shall review the proposal and forward recommendations to the Chief, ORE.
(c) If the study is to be conducted at more than one institution or at any other Bureau location, the applicant shall submit the research proposal to the Chief, Office of Research and Evaluation, Federal Bureau of Prisons, 320 First Street, NW., Washington, DC 20534. The Chief, ORE, shall determine an appropriate review process.
(d) All formal proposals will be reviewed by the BRRB.
(e) The BRRB chairperson may exercise the authority of the full BRRB under an expedited review process when another official IRB (either within or outside the Bureau) has approved the research, or when, in his/her judgment, the research proposal meets the minimal risk standard and involves only the following:
(1) The study of existing data, documents, or records; and/or
(2) The study of individual or group behavior or characteristics of individuals, where the investigator does not manipulate subjects' behavior and the research will not involve stress to subjects. Such research would include test development and studies of perception, cognition, or game theory. If a proposal is processed under expedited review, the BRRB chairperson must document in writing the reason for that determination.
(f) The Chief, ORE, shall review all recommendations made and shall submit them in writing to the Director, Bureau of Prisons.
(g) The Director, Bureau of Prisons, has final authority to approve or disapprove all research proposals. The Director may delegate this authority to the Assistant Director, Information, Policy, and Public Affairs Division.
(h) The approving authority shall notify in writing the involved region(s), institution(s), and the prospective researcher of the final decision on a research proposal.
[59 FR 13860, Mar. 23, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 6661, Feb. 12, 1997]
§ 512.15
Access to Bureau of Prisons records.
(a) Employees, including consultants, of the Bureau who are conducting authorized research projects shall have access to those records relating to the subject which are necessary to the purpose of the research project without having to obtain the subject's consent.
(b) A non-employee of the Bureau is limited in access to information available under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552).
(c) A non-employee of the Bureau may receive records in a form not individually identifiable when advance adequate written assurance that the record will be used solely as a statistical research or reporting record is provided to the agency (5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(5)).
§ 512.16
Informed consent.
(a) Before commencing a research project requiring participation by staff or inmates, the researcher shall give each participant a written informed consent statement containing the following information:
(1) Identification of the principal investigator(s);
(2) Objectives of the research project;
(3) Procedures to be followed in the conduct of research;
(4) Purpose of each procedure;
(5) Anticipated uses of the results of the research;
(6) A statement of benefits reasonably to be expected;
(7) A declaration concerning discomfort and risk, including a description of anticipated discomfort and risk;
(8) A statement that participation is completely voluntary and that the participant may withdraw consent and end participation in the project at any time without penalty or prejudice (the inmate will be returned to regular assignment or activity by staff as soon as practicable);
(9) A statement regarding the confidentiality of the research information and exceptions to any guarantees of confidentiality required by federal or state law. For example, a researcher may not guarantee confidentiality when the subject indicates an intent to commit future criminal conduct or harm himself/herself or someone else, or, if the subject is an inmate, indicates an intent to leave the facility without authorization.
(10) A statement that participation in the research project will have no effect on the inmate participant's release date or parole eligibility;
(11) An offer to answer questions about the research project; and
(12) Appropriate additional information as needed to describe adequately the nature and risks of the research.
(b) A researcher who is an employee of the Bureau shall include in the informed consent statement a declaration of the authority under which the research is conducted.
(c) A researcher who is an employee of the Bureau, in addition to presenting the statement of informed consent to the subject, shall also obtain the subject's signature on the statement of informed consent, when:
(1) The subject's activity requires something other than response to a questionnaire or interview; or
(2) The Chief, ORE, determines the research project or data-collection instrument is of a sensitive nature.
(d) A researcher who is a non-employee of the Bureau, in addition to presenting the statement of informed consent to the subject, shall also obtain the subject's signature on the statement of informed consent prior to initiating the research activity. The researcher may not be required to obtain the signature if the researcher can demonstrate that the only link to the subject's identity is the signed statement of informed consent or that there is significantly more risk to the subject if the statement is signed. The signed statement shall be submitted to the chairperson of the appropriate local research review board.
§ 512.17
Monitoring approved research projects.
The BRRB shall monitor all research projects for compliance with Bureau policies. At a minimum, yearly reviews will be conducted.
§ 512.18
Termination or suspension.
The Director, Bureau of Prisons, may suspend or terminate a research project if it is believed that the project violates research policy or that its continuation may prove detrimental to the inmate population, the staff, or the orderly operation of the institution.
§ 512.19
Reports.
The researcher shall prepare reports of progress on the research and at least one report of findings.
(a) At least once a year, the researcher shall provide the Chief, ORE, with a report on the progress of the research.
(b) At least 12 working days before any report of findings is to be released, the researcher shall distribute one copy of the report to each of the following: the chairperson of the BRRB, the regional director, and the warden of each institution which provided data or assistance. The researcher shall include an abstract in the report of findings.
§ 512.20
Publication of results of research project.
(a) A researcher may publish in book form and professional journals the results of any research project conducted under this subpart.
(1) In any publication of results, the researcher shall acknowledge the Bureau's participation in the research project.
(2) The researcher shall expressly disclaim approval or endorsement of the published material as an expression of the policies or views of the Bureau.
(b) Prior to submitting for publication the results of a research project conducted under this subpart, the researcher shall provide two copies of the material, for informational purposes only, to the Chief, Office of Research and Evaluation, Central Office, Bureau of Prisons.
[59 FR 13860, Mar. 23, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 6662, Feb. 12, 1997]
§ 512.21
Copyright provisions.
(a) An employee of the Bureau may not copyright any work prepared as part of his/her official duties.
(b) As a precondition to the conduct of research under this subpart, a non-employee shall grant in writing to the Bureau a royalty-free, non-exclusive, and irrevocable license to reproduce, publish, translate, and otherwise use and authorize others to publish and use original materials developed as a result of research conducted under this subpart.
(c) Subject to a royalty-free, non-exclusive and irrevocable license, which the Bureau of Prisons reserves, to reproduce, publish, translate, and otherwise use and authorize others to publish and use such materials, a non-employee may copyright original materials developed as a result of research conducted under this subpart.
[59 FR 13860, Mar. 23, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 6662, Feb. 12, 1997]
Pt. 513

# PART 513—ACCESS TO RECORDS
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Production or Disclosure of FBI/NCIC Information
Sec.
513.10
Purpose and scope.
513.11
Procedures for requesting a FBI identification record or a NCIC/III record.
513.12
Inmate request for record clarification.

# Subpart C—Release of Information to Law Enforcement Agencies
513.20
Release of information to law enforcement agencies.

# Subpart D—Release of Information

# General Provisions and Procedures
513.30
Purpose and scope.
513.31
Limitations.
513.32
Guidelines for disclosure.
513.33
Production of records in court.
513.34
Protection of individual privacy—disclosure of records to third parties.
513.35
Accounting/nonaccounting of disclosures to third parties.
513.36
Government contractors.

# Inmate Requests to Institution for Information
513.40
Inmate access to Inmate Central File.
513.41
Inmate access to Inmate Central File in connection with parole hearings.
513.42
Inmate access to medical records.
513.43
Inmate access to certain Bureau Program Statements.
513.44
Fees for copies of Inmate Central File and Medical Records.

# Privacy Act Requests for Information
513.50
Privacy Act requests by inmates.

# Freedom of Information Act Requests for Information
513.60
Freedom of Information Act requests.
513.61
Freedom of Information Act requests by inmates.
513.62
Freedom of Information Act requests by former inmates.
513.63
Freedom of Information Act requests on behalf of an inmate or former inmate.
513.64
Acknowledgment of Freedom of Information Act requests.
513.65
Review of documents for Freedom of Information Act requests.
513.66
Denials and appeals of Freedom of Information Act requests.
513.67
Fees for Freedom of Information Act requests.
513.68
Time limits for responses to Freedom of Information Act requests.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 552, 552a; 13 U.S.C.; 18 U.S.C. 3621, 3622, 3624, 4001, 4042, 4081, 4082 (Repealed in part as to conduct occurring on or after November 1, 1987), 5006-5024 (Repealed October 12, 1984, as to conduct occurring after that date), 5039; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510; 31 U.S.C. 3711(f); 5 CFR part 297; 28 CFR 0.95-0.99 and parts 16 and 301.

# Source:
45 FR 44228, June 30, 1980, unless otherwise noted.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Production or Disclosure of FBI/NCIC Information

# Source:
58 FR 68765, Dec. 29, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 513.10
Purpose and scope.
This subpart describes the procedures to be followed by an inmate who requests a copy of his or her FBI identification record or National Crime Information Center Interstate Identification Index (NCIC/III) record and references the procedures to follow in order to challenge the contents of such record.
§ 513.11
Procedures for requesting a FBI identification record or a NCIC/III record.
(a)
FBI identification record.
(1) An inmate may request a copy of his or her current FBI identification record directly from the FBI by following the procedure outlined in 28 CFR 16.30 through 16.34.
(i) Bureau of Prisons staff shall assist the inmate to obtain the fingerprint impressions required to be submitted with such an application.
(ii) The inmate may direct that funds be withdrawn from his or her institution account to pay the applicable fee.
(2) An inmate may request a copy of his or her FBI identification record from institution staff.
(i) If the requested FBI identification record is in the inmate's institution file, staff shall provide the inmate with a copy.
(ii) If the requested FBI identification record is not in the inmate's institution file, staff shall direct the inmate to the procedure referenced in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b)
NCIC/III identification record.
An inmate who wishes to obtain a copy of his or her NCIC/III record must submit a written request to the FBI. The procedures outlined in 28 CFR 16.32, 16.33, and paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply to such request.
§ 513.12
Inmate request for record clarification.
Where the inmate believes that his or her FBI identification record is incorrect or inaccurate, the inmate may follow procedures outlined in 28 CFR 16.34. The procedures in 28 CFR 16.34 also apply for the clarification of an inmate's NCIC/III record.

# Subpart C—Release of Information to Law Enforcement Agencies
§ 513.20
Release of information to law enforcement agencies.
(a) The Bureau of Prisons will provide to the head of any law enforcement agency of a state or of a unit of local government in a state information on federal prisoners who have been convicted of felony offenses and who are confined at a residential community treatment center located in the geographical area in which the requesting agency has jurisdiction. Law enforcement personnel interested in obtaining this information must forward a written request to the appropriate Regional Community Programs Administrator (see 28 CFR part 503 for the mailing address). The type of information that the Bureau of Prisons may provide is set forth in 18 U.S.C. 4082(f). That information includes: names, dates of birth, FBI numbers, nature of the offenses against the United States, fingerprints, photographs, and the designated community treatment centers, with prospective dates of release.
(b) Any law enforcement agency which receives information under this rule may not disseminate such information outside of such agency. If an agency disseminates information contrary to this restriction, the Bureau of
Prisons may terminate or suspend release of information to that agency.
[53 FR 15538, Apr. 29, 1988]

# Subpart D—Release of Information

# Source:
61 FR 64950, Dec. 9, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions and Procedures
§ 513.30
Purpose and scope.
This subpart establishes procedures for the release of requested records in possession of the Federal Bureau of Prisons (“Bureau”). It is intended to implement provisions of the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552, and the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, and to supplement Department of Justice (DOJ) regulations concerning the production or disclosure of records or information, 28 CFR part 16.
§ 513.31
Limitations.
(a)
Social Security Numbers.
As of September 27, 1975, Social Security Numbers may not be used in their entirety as a method of identification for any Bureau record system, unless such use is authorized by statute or by regulation adopted prior to January 1, 1975.
(b)
Employee records.
Access and amendment of employee personnel records under the Privacy Act are governed by Office of Personnel Management regulations published in 5 CFR part 297 and by Department of Justice regulations published in 28 CFR part 16.
§ 513.32
Guidelines for disclosure.
The Bureau provides for the disclosure of agency information pursuant to applicable laws, e.g. the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), and the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a).
§ 513.33
Production of records in court.
Bureau records are often sought by subpoena, court order, or other court demand, in connection with court proceedings. The Attorney General has directed that these records may not be produced in court without the approval of the Attorney General or his or her designee. The guidelines are set forth in 28 CFR part 16, subpart B.
§ 513.34
Protection of individual privacy—disclosure of records to third parties.
(a) Information that concerns an individual and is contained in a system of records maintained by the Bureau shall not be disclosed to any person, or to another agency except under the provisions of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, and Departmental regulations.
(b) Lists of Bureau inmates shall not be disclosed.
§ 513.35
Accounting/nonaccounting of disclosures to third parties.
Accounting/nonaccounting of disclosures to third parties shall be made in accordance with Department of Justice regulations contained in 28 CFR 16.52.
§ 513.36
Government contractors.
(a) No Bureau component may contract for the operation of a record system by or on behalf of the Bureau without the express written approval of the Director or the Director's designee.
(b) Any contract which is approved shall contain the standard contract requirements promulgated by the General Services Administration (GSA) to ensure compliance with the requirements imposed by the Privacy Act. The contracting component shall have the responsibility to ensure that the contractor complies with the contract requirements relating to privacy.

# Inmate Requests to Institution for Information
§ 513.40
Inmate access to Inmate Central File.
Inmates are encouraged to use the simple access procedures described in this section to review disclosable records maintained in his or her Inmate Central File, rather than the FOIA procedures described in §§ 513.60 through 513.68 of this subpart. Disclosable records in the Inmate Central File include, but are not limited to, documents relating to the inmate's
sentence, detainer, participation in Bureau programs such as the Inmate Financial Responsibility Program, classification data, parole information, mail, visits, property, conduct, work, release processing, and general correspondence. This information is available without filing a FOIA request. If any information is withheld from the inmate, staff will provide the inmate with a general description of that information and also will notify the inmate that he or she may file a FOIA request.
(a)
Inmate review of his or her Inmate Central File.
An inmate may at any time request to review all disclosable portions of his or her Inmate Central File by submitting a request to a staff member designated by the Warden. Staff are to acknowledge the request and schedule the inmate, as promptly as is practical, for a review of the file at a time which will not disrupt institution operations.
(b)
Procedures for inmate review of his or her Inmate Central File.
(1) Prior to the inmate's review of the file, staff are to remove the Privacy Folder which contains documents withheld from disclosure pursuant to § 513.32.
(2) During the file review, the inmate is to be under direct and constant supervision by staff. The staff member monitoring the review shall enter the date of the inmate's file review on the Inmate Activity Record and initial the entry. Staff shall ask the inmate to initial the entry also, and if the inmate refuses to do so, shall enter a notation to that effect.
(3) Staff shall advise the inmate if there are documents withheld from disclosure and, if so, shall advise the inmate of the inmate's right under the provisions of § 513.61 to make a FOIA request for the withheld documents.
§ 513.41
Inmate access to Inmate Central File in connection with parole hearings.
A parole-eligible inmate (an inmate who is currently serving a sentence for an offense committed prior to November 1, 1987) may review disclosable portions of the Inmate Central File prior to the inmate's parole hearing, under the general procedures set forth in § 513.40. In addition, the following guidelines apply:
(a) A parole-eligible inmate may request to review his or her Inmate Central File by submitting the appropriate Parole Commission form. This form ordinarily shall be available to each eligible inmate within five work days after a list of eligible inmates is prepared.
(b) Bureau staff ordinarily shall schedule an eligible inmate for a requested Inmate Central File review within seven work days of the request after the inmate has been scheduled for a parole hearing. A reasonable extension of time is permitted for documents which have been provided (prior to the inmate's request) to originating agencies for clearance, or which are otherwise not available at the institution.
(c) A report received from another agency which is determined to be nondisclosable (see § 513.40(b)) will be summarized by that agency, in accordance with Parole Commission regulations. Bureau staff shall place the summary in the appropriate disclosable section of the Inmate Central File. The original report (or portion which is summarized in another document) will be placed in the portion of the Privacy File for Joint Use by the Bureau and the Parole Commission.
(d) Bureau documents which are determined to be nondisclosable to the inmate will be summarized for the inmate's review. A copy of the summary will be placed in the disclosable section of the Inmate Central File. The document from which the summary is taken will be placed in the Joint Use Section of the Privacy Folder. Nondisclosable documents not summarized for the inmate's review are not available to the Parole Commission and are placed in a nondisclosable section of the Inmate Central File.
(e) When no response regarding disclosure has been received from an originating agency in time for inmate review prior to the parole hearing, Bureau staff are to inform the Parole Commission Hearing Examiner.
§ 513.42
Inmate access to medical records.
(a) Except for the limitations of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, an inmate may review records from his or her medical file (including dental records) by submitting a request to a staff member designated by the Warden.
(b) Laboratory reports which contain only scientific testing results and which contain no staff evaluation or opinion (such as Standard Form 514A, Urinalysis) are ordinarily disclosable. Lab results of HIV testing may be reviewed by the inmate. However, an inmate may not retain a copy of his or her test results while the inmate is confined in a Bureau facility or a Community Corrections Center. A copy of an inmate's HIV test results may be forwarded to a third party outside the institution and chosen by the inmate, provided that the inmate gives written authorization for the disclosure.
(c) Medical records containing subjective evaluations and opinions of medical staff relating to the inmate's care and treatment will be provided to the inmate only after the staff review required by paragraph (d) of this section. These records include, but are not limited to, outpatient notes, consultation reports, narrative summaries or reports by a specialist, operative reports by the physician, summaries by specialists as the result of laboratory analysis, or in-patient progress reports.
(d) Prior to release to the inmate, records described in paragraph (c) of this section shall be reviewed by staff to determine if the release of this information would present a harm to either the inmate or other individuals. Any records determined not to present a harm will be released to the inmate at the conclusion of the review by staff. If any records are determined by staff not to be releasable based upon the presence of harm, the inmate will be so advised in writing and provided the address of the agency component to which the inmate may address a formal request for the withheld records. An accounting of any medical records will be maintained in the inmate's medical file.
§ 513.43
Inmate access to certain Bureau Program Statements.
Inmates are encouraged to use the simple local access procedures described in this section to review certain Bureau Program Statements, rather than the FOIA procedures described in §§ 513.60 through 513.68 of this subpart.
(a) For a current Bureau Program Statement containing rules (regulations published in the
Federal Register
and codified in 28 CFR), local access is available through the institution law library.
(b) For a current Bureau Program Statement not containing rules (regulations published in the
Federal Register
and codified in 28 CFR), inmates may request that it be placed in the institution law library. Placement of a requested Program Statement in the law library is within the discretion of the Warden, based upon local institution conditions.
(c) Inmates are responsible for the costs of making personal copies of any Program Statements maintained in the institution law library. For copies of Program Statements obtained under the FOIA procedures described in §§ 513.60 through 513.68 of this subpart, fees will be calculated in accordance with 28 CFR 16.10.
§ 513.44
Fees for copies of Inmate Central File and Medical Records.
Within a reasonable time after a request, Bureau staff are to provide an inmate personal copies of requested disclosable documents maintained in the Inmate Central File and Medical Record. Fees for the copies are to be calculated in accordance with 28 CFR 16.10.

# Privacy Act Requests for Information
§ 513.50
Privacy Act requests by inmates.
Because inmate records are exempt from disclosure under the Privacy Act (see 28 CFR 16.97), inmate requests for records under the Privacy Act will be processed in accordance with the FOIA. See §§ 513.61 through 513.68.

# Freedom of Information Act Requests for Information
§ 513.60
Freedom of Information Act requests.
Requests for any Bureau record (including Program Statements and Operations Memoranda) ordinarily shall be processed pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552. Such a request must be made in writing and addressed to the Director, Federal Bureau of Prisons, 320 First Street, NW., Washington, D.C. 20534. The requester shall clearly mark on the face of the letter and the envelope “FREEDOM OF INFORMATION REQUEST,” and shall clearly describe the records sought. See §§ 513.61 through 513.63 for additional requirements.
§ 513.61
Freedom of Information Act requests by inmates.
(a) Inmates are encouraged to use the simple access procedures described in § 513.40 to review disclosable records maintained in his or her Inmate Central File.
(b) An inmate may make a request for access to documents in his or her Inmate Central File or Medical File (including documents which have been withheld from disclosure during the inmate's review of his or her Inmate Central File pursuant to § 513.40) and/or other documents concerning the inmate which are not contained in the Inmate Central File or Medical File. Staff shall process such a request pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552.
(c) The inmate requester shall clearly mark on the face of the letter and on the envelope “FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT REQUEST”, and shall clearly describe the records sought, including the approximate dates covered by the record. An inmate making such a request must provide his or her full name, current address, date and place of birth. In addition, if the inmate requests documents to be sent to a third party, the inmate must provide with the request an example of his or her signature, which must be verified and dated within three (3) months of the date of the request.
§ 513.62
Freedom of Information Act requests by former inmates.
Former federal inmates may request copies of their Bureau records by writing to the Director, Federal Bureau of Prisons, 320 First Street, NW., Washington, D.C. 20534. Such requests shall be processed pursuant to the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act. The request must be clearly marked on the face of the letter and on the envelope “FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT REQUEST”, and must describe the record sought, including the approximate dates covered by the record. A former inmate making such a request must provide his or her full name, current address, date and place of birth. In addition, the requester must provide with the request an example of his or her signature, which must be either notarized or sworn under penalty of perjury, and dated within three (3) months of the date of the request.
§ 513.63
Freedom of Information Act requests on behalf of an inmate or former inmate.
A request for records concerning an inmate or former inmate made by an authorized representative of that inmate or former inmate will be treated as in § 513.61, on receipt of the inmate's or former inmate's written authorization. This authorization must be dated within three (3) months of the date of the request letter. Identification data, as listed in 28 CFR 16.41, must be provided.
§ 513.64
Acknowledgment of Freedom of Information Act requests.
(a) All requests for records under the Freedom of Information Act received by the FOI/PA Administrator, Office of General Counsel, will be reviewed and may be forwarded to the appropriate Regional Office for proper handling. Requests for records located at a Bureau facility other than the Central Office or Regional Office may be referred to the appropriate staff at that facility for proper handling.
(b) The requester shall be notified of the status of his or her request by the office with final responsibility for processing the request.
§ 513.65
Review of documents for Freedom of Information Act requests.
If a document is deemed to contain information exempt from disclosure, any reasonably segregable portion of the record shall be provided to the requester after deletion of the exempt portions. If documents, or portions of documents, in an Inmate Central File have been determined to be nondisclosable by institution staff but are later released by Regional or Central Office staff pursuant to a request under this section, appropriate instructions will be given to the institution to move those documents, or portions, from the Inmate Privacy Folder into the disclosable section of the Inmate Central File.
§ 513.66
Denials and appeals of Freedom of Information Act requests.
If a request made pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act is denied in whole or in part, a denial letter must be issued and signed by the Director or his or her designee, and shall state the basis for denial under § 513.32. The requester who has been denied such access shall be advised that he or she may appeal that decision to the Office of Information and Privacy, U.S. Department of Justice, Suite 570, Flag Building, Washington, D.C. 20530. Both the envelope and the letter of appeal itself should be clearly marked: “Freedom of Information Act Appeal.”
§ 513.67
Fees for Freedom of Information Act requests.
Fees for copies of records disclosed under the FOIA, including fees for a requester's own records, may be charged in accordance with Department of Justice regulations contained in 28 CFR 16.10.
§ 513.68
Time limits for responses to Freedom of Information Act requests.
Consistent with sound administrative practice and the provisions of 28 CFR 16.1, the Bureau strives to comply with the time limits set forth in the Freedom of Information Act.

# SUBCHAPTER B—INMATE ADMISSION, CLASSIFICATION, AND TRANSFER
Pt. 522

# PART 522—ADMISSION TO INSTITUTION
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Civil Contempt of Court Commitments
Sec.
522.10
Purpose.
522.11
Civil contempt commitments.
522.12
Relationship between existing criminal sentences imposed under the U.S. or D.C. Code and new civil contempt commitment orders.
522.13
Relationship between existing civil contempt commitment orders and new criminal sentences imposed under the U.S. or D.C. Code.
522.14
Inmates serving civil contempt commitments.
522.15
No good time credits for inmates serving only civil contempt commitments.

# Subpart C—Intake Screening
522.20
Purpose and scope.
522.21
Procedures.

# Subpart D—Unescorted Transfers and Voluntary Surrenders
522.30
Purpose and scope.
Subpart E [Reserved]

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 3568 (Repealed November 1, 1987 as to offenses committed on or after that date), 3585, 3621, 3622, 3624, 4001, 4042, 4081, 4082 (Repealed in part as to conduct occurring on or after November 1, 1987), 4161-4166, (repealed October 12, 1984, as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 5006-5024 (Repealed October 12, 1984 as to offenses committed after that date), 5039; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510; D.C. Code § 24-101(b).

# Source:
44 FR 38244, June 29, 1979, unless otherwise noted.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Civil Contempt of Court Commitments

# Source:
70 FR 67092, Nov. 4, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 522.10
Purpose.
(a) This subpart describes the procedures for federal civil contempt of court commitments (civil contempt commitments) referred to the Bureau of Prisons (Bureau). These cases are not commitments to the custody of the Attorney General for service of terms of imprisonment following criminal convictions.
(b) We cooperate with the federal courts to implement civil contempt commitments by making our facilities and resources available. When we receive notification from the federal court that the reason for the civil contempt commitment has ended or that the inmate is to be released for any other reason, we will terminate the inmate's civil contempt commitment.
§ 522.11
Civil contempt commitments.
Inmates can come into Bureau custody for civil contempt commitments in two ways:
(a) The U.S. Marshals Service may request a designation from the Bureau for a civil contempt commitment if local jails are not suitable due to medical, security or other reasons; or
(b) The committing court may specify a Bureau institution as the place of incarceration in its contempt order. We will designate the facility specified in the court order unless there is a reason for not placing the inmate in that facility.
§ 522.12
Relationship between existing criminal sentences imposed under the U.S. or D.C. Code and new civil contempt commitment orders.
If a criminal sentence imposed under the U.S. Code or D.C. Code exists when a civil contempt commitment is ordered, we delay or suspend credit towards service of the criminal sentence for the duration of the civil contempt commitment, unless the committing judge orders otherwise.
§ 522.13
Relationship between existing civil contempt commitment orders and new criminal sentences imposed under the U.S. or D.C. Code.
(a) Except as stated in (b), if a civil contempt commitment order is in effect when a criminal sentence of imprisonment is imposed under the U.S. or D.C. Code, the criminal sentence runs consecutively to the commitment order, unless the sentencing judge orders otherwise.
(b)
For federal criminal sentences imposed for offenses committed before November 1, 1987, under 18 U.S.C. Chapter 227:
If a civil contempt commitment order is in effect when a criminal sentence of imprisonment is imposed, the criminal sentence runs concurrent with the commitment order, unless the sentencing judge orders otherwise.
§ 522.14
Inmates serving civil contempt commitments.
We treat inmates serving civil contempt commitments in Bureau institutions the same as pretrial inmates. If an inmate is serving a civil contempt commitment and a concurrent criminal sentence, we treat the inmate the same as a person serving a criminal sentence.
§ 522.15
No good time credits for inmates serving only civil contempt commitments.
While serving only the civil contempt commitment, an inmate is not entitled to good time sentence credit.

# Subpart C—Intake Screening
§ 522.20
Purpose and scope.
Bureau of Prisons staff screen newly arrived inmates to ensure that Bureau health, safety, and security standards are met.
[45 FR 44229, June 30, 1980]
§ 522.21
Procedures.
(a) Except for such camps and other satellite facilities where segregating a newly arrived inmate in detention is not feasible, the Warden shall ensure that a newly arrived inmate is cleared by the Medical Department and provided a social interview by staff before assignment to the general population.
(1) Immediately upon an inmate's arrival, staff shall interview the inmate to determine if there are non-medical reasons for housing the inmate away from the general population. Staff shall evaluate both the general physical appearance and emotional condition of the inmate.
(2) Within 24 hours after an inmate's arrival, medical staff shall medically screen the inmate in compliance with Bureau of Prisons' medical procedures to determine if there are medical reasons for housing the inmate away from the general population or for restricting temporary work assignments.
(3) Staff shall place recorded results of the intake medical screening and the social interview in the inmate's central file.
[45 FR 44229, June 30, 1980]

# Subpart D—Unescorted Transfers and Voluntary Surrenders
§ 522.30
Purpose and scope.
When the court orders or recommends an unescorted commitment to a Bureau of Prisons institution, the Bureau of Prisons authorizes the commitment and designates the institution for service of sentence. The Bureau of Prisons also authorizes furlough transfers of inmates between Bureau of Prisons institutions or to nonfederal institutions in appropriate circumstances in accordance with 18 U.S.C. 3622 or 4082, and within the guidelines of the Bureau of Prisons policy on furloughs, which allows inmates to travel unescorted and to report voluntarily to an assigned institution.
[61 FR 64953, Dec. 9, 1996]
Subpart E [Reserved]
Pt. 523

# PART 523—COMPUTATION OF SENTENCE

# Subpart A—Good Time
Sec.
523.1
Definitions.
523.2
Good time credit for violators.

# Subpart B—Extra Good Time
523.10
Purpose and scope.
523.11
Meritorious good time.
523.12
Work/study release good time.
523.13
Community corrections center good time.
523.14
Industrial good time.
523.15
Camp or farm good time.
523.16
Lump sum awards.
523.17
Procedures.

# Subpart C—Good Conduct Time
523.20
Good conduct time.

# Subpart D—District of Columbia Educational Good Time Credit
523.30
What is educational good time sentence credit?
523.31
Who is eligible for DCEGT?
523.32
How much DCEGT can I earn?
523.33
How is eligibility for DCEGT limited?
523.34
How can I challenge DCEGT award decisions?

# Subpart E—First Step Act Time Credits
523.40
Purpose.
523.41
Definitions.
523.42
Earning First Step Act Time Credits.
523.43
Loss of FSA Time Credits.
523.44
Application of FSA Time Credits.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 3568 (repealed November 1, 1987, as to offenses committed on or after that date), 3621, 3622, 3624, 3632, 3635, 4001, 4042, 4081, 4082 (repealed in part as to conduct occurring on or after November 1, 1987), 4161-4166 (repealed October 12, 1984, as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 5006-5024 (repealed October 12, 1984, as to conduct occurring after that date), 5039; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510.

# Source:
54 FR 32028, Aug. 3, 1989, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Good Time
§ 523.1
Definitions.
(a)
Statutory good time
means a credit to a sentence as authorized by 18 U.S.C. 4161. The total amount of statutory good time which an inmate is entitled to have deducted on any given sentence, or aggregate of sentences, is calculated and credited in advance, when the sentence is computed.
(b)
Extra good time
means a credit to a sentence as authorized by 18 U.S.C. 4162 for performing exceptionally meritorious service or for performing duties of outstanding importance in an institution or for employment in a Federal Prison Industry or Camp. “Extra Good Time” thus includes Meritorious Good Time, Work/Study Release Good Time, Community Corrections Center Good Time, Industrial Good Time, Camp or Farm Good Time, and Lump Sum Awards. Extra good time and seniority are inseparable with the exception of lump sum awards for which no seniority is earned.
(c)
Seniority
refers to the time accrued in an extra good time earning status. Twelve months of “seniority” automatically cause the earning rate to increase from three days per month to five days per month and seniority is then vested.
(d)
Earning status
refers to the status of an inmate who is in an assignment or employment which accrues extra good time.
§ 523.2
Good time credit for violators.
(a) An inmate conditionally released from imprisonment either by parole or mandatory release can earn statutory good time, upon being returned to custody for violation of supervised release, based on the number of days remaining to be served on the sentence. The rate of statutory good time for the violator term is computed at the rate of the total sentence from which released.
(b) An inmate whose special parole term is revoked can earn statutory good time based on the number of days remaining to be served on the special parole violator term. The rate of statutory good time for the violator term is computed at the rate of the initial special parole term plus the total sentence that was served prior to the special parole term and to which the special parole term was attached.
(c) Once an inmate is conditionally released from imprisonment, either by parole, including special parole, or mandatory release, the good time earned (extra or statutory) during that period of imprisonment is of no further effect either to shorten the period of supervision or to shorten the period of imprisonment which the inmate may be required to serve for violation of parole or mandatory release.

# Subpart B—Extra Good Time
§ 523.10
Purpose and scope.
(a) The Bureau of Prisons awards extra good time credit for performing exceptionally meritorious service, or
for performing duties of outstanding importance or for employment in an industry or camp. An inmate may earn only one type of extra good time award at a time (e.g., an inmate earning industrial or camp good time is not eligible for meritorious good time), except that a lump sum award as provided in § 523.16 may be given in addition to another extra good time award. The Warden or the Discipline Hearing Officer may not forfeit or withhold extra good time. The Warden may disallow or terminate the awarding of any type of extra good time (except lump sum awards), but only in a nondisciplinary context and only upon recommendation of staff. The Discipline Hearing Officer may disallow or terminate the awarding of any type of extra good time (except lump sum awards), as a disciplinary sanction. Once an awarding of meritorious good time has been terminated, the Warden must approve a new staff recommendation in order for the award to recommence. A “disallowance” means that an inmate does not receive an extra good time award for only one calendar month. Unless other action is taken, the award resumes the following calendar month. A “disallowance” must be for the entire amount of extra good time for that calendar month. There may be no partial disallowance. A decision to disallow or terminate extra good time may not be suspended pending future consideration. A retroactive award of meritorious good time may not include a month in which extra good time has been disallowed or terminated.
(b) The provisions of this rule do not apply to inmates sentenced under the Sentencing Reform Act provisions of the Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984. This means that inmates sentenced under the Sentencing Reform Act provisions for offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987 are not eligible for either statutory or extra good time, but may be considered for a maximum of 54 days of good conduct time credit per year (see 18 U.S.C. 3624(b)).
§ 523.11
Meritorious good time.
(a) Staff are responsible for recommending meritorious good time based upon work performance. Each recommendation must include a justification which clearly shows that the work being performed is of an exceptionally meritorious nature or is of outstanding importance in connection with institutional operations. Work performance and the importance of the work performed are the only criteria for awarding meritorious good time.
(b) A retroactive award of meritorious good time is ordinarily limited to three months, excluding the month in which the recommendation is made. A retroactive award in excess of three months requires the approval of the Warden or designee (may not be delegated below the level of Associate Warden). Staff are to include with any recommendation for an inmate to receive a retroactive award of meritorious good time, a written statement confirming the inmate's eligibility for the retroactive award.
(c) Meritorious good time continues uninterrupted regardless of work assignment changes unless the Warden or the Discipline Hearing Officer takes specific action to terminate or disallow the award.
§ 523.12
Work/study release good time.
Extra good time for an inmate in work or study release programs is awarded automatically, beginning on the date the inmate is assigned to the program and continuing without further approval as long as the inmate is participating in the program, unless the award is disallowed.
§ 523.13
Community corrections center good time.
Extra good time for an inmate in a Federal or contract Community Corrections Center is awarded automatically, beginning on arrival at the facility and continuing as long as the inmate is confined at the Center, unless the award is disallowed.
§ 523.14
Industrial good time.
Extra good time for an inmate employed in Federal Prison Industries, Inc., is automatically awarded, beginning on the first day of such employment, and continuing as long as the inmate is employed by Federal Prison Industries, unless the award is disallowed. An inmate on a waiting list
for employment in Federal Prison Industries is not awarded industrial good time until actually employed.
§ 523.15
Camp or farm good time.
An inmate assigned to a farm or camp is automatically awarded extra good time, beginning on the date of commitment to the camp or farm, and continuing as long as the inmate is assigned to the farm or camp, unless the award is disallowed.
§ 523.16
Lump sum awards.
Any staff member may recommend to the Warden the approval of an inmate for a lump sum award of extra good time. Such recommendations must be for an exceptional act or service that is not part of a regularly assigned duty. The Warden may make lump sum awards of extra good time not to exceed thirty days. If the recommendation is for an award in excess of thirty days and the Warden concurs, the Warden shall refer the recommendation to the Regional Director who may approve the award. No award may be approved which would exceed the maximum number of days allowed under 18 U.S.C. 4162. The actual length of time served on the sentence, to the date that the exceptional act or service terminated, is the basis on which the maximum amount possible to award is calculated. No seniority is accrued for such awards. Staff may recommend lump sum awards of extra good time for the following reasons:
(a) An act of heroism;
(b) Voluntary acceptance and satisfactory performance of an unusually hazardous assignment;
(c) An act which protects the lives of staff or inmates or the property of the United States; this is to be an act and not merely the providing of information in custodial or security matters;
(d) A suggestion which results in substantial improvement of a program or operation, or which results in significant savings; or
(e) Any other exceptional or outstanding service.
§ 523.17
Procedures.
(a) Extra good time is awarded at a rate of three days per month during the first twelve months of seniority in an earning status and at the rate of five days per month thereafter. The first twelve months of seniority need not be based on a continuous period of twelve months. If the beginning or termination date of an extra good time award occurs after the first day of a month, a partial award of days is made.
(b) An inmate may be awarded extra good time even though some or all of the inmate's statutory good time has been forfeited or withheld.
(c) Parole and mandatory release violators may earn extra good time the same as other inmates. Once an inmate is conditionally released from imprisonment, either by parole, including special parole, or mandatory release, the good time earned during that period of imprisonment is of no further effect either to shorten the period of supervision or to shorten the period of imprisonment which the inmate may be required to serve for violation of parole or mandatory release.
(d) Staff working in the community have the same extra good time authority as the Warden when approving the award of good time for an inmate confined in a non-federal facility and may approve meritorious good time or lump sum awards in accordance with this rule upon recommendations made by a responsible person employed by the non-federal facility. The appropriate staff in the Regional Office may review all such awards if the Regional Director requires the review.
(e) An inmate who is transferred remains in the earning status at time of transfer, unless the reason for transfer would otherwise have caused removal from an earning status, and provided the inmate's behavior is such while in transit that it does not justify removal. Where the receiving institution is a camp, farm, or community corrections center, the extra good time continues automatically upon the inmate's arrival. Where the receiving institution is other than a camp, farm, or community corrections center, the extra good time is terminated upon arrival, and staff at the receiving institution shall review each case to determine if the inmate should continue in meritorious good time earning status if not immediately employed in Federal Prison Industries or assigned to a
work/study release program. If the inmate then is not continued in meritorious good time earning status, later awards must comply with procedures outlined in § 523.11.
(f) An inmate serving a life sentence may earn extra good time even though there is no mandatory release date from which to deduct the credit since the possibility exists that the sentence may be reduced or commuted to a definite term.
(g) Extra good time is not automatically discontinued while an inmate is hospitalized, on furlough, out of the institution on a writ of habeas corpus, or removed under the Interstate Agreement on Detainers. Extra good time may be terminated or disallowed during such absences if the Warden or the Discipline Hearing Officer finds that the inmate's behavior warrants such action.
(h) Extra good time earned by an inmate in a District of Columbia Department of Corrections facility is treated the same as if earned in a Bureau of Prisons institution, upon transfer to a Bureau institution.
(i) An inmate committed under the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 3651 (split sentence) may earn extra good time credits provided the sentence imposed is not under the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 5010 (b) or (c) (YCA). All extra good time and seniority earned is carried over to any subsequent probation violator sentence based on the original split sentence.
(j) An inmate committed under the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 4205(c) may earn extra good time credits towards the final sentence that may be imposed. Such extra good time credits do not reduce the three months allowed for study. An inmate committed under the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 4244, as amended effective October 12, 1984, may earn extra good time credits toward the final sentence that may be imposed. Such extra good time credits do not reduce the provisional sentence. Extra good time may continue during a commitment for examination of hospitalization and treatment under 18 U.S.C. 4245, as amended effective October 12, 1984.
(k) Inmates committed under the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 4244, 4246-47, 4252, 5010 (b), (c), (e), or 5037(c) as these sections were in effect prior to October 12, 1984, are not entitled to extra good time deductions. Inmates committed under the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 4241, 4242, 4243, or 4246 as these sections were amended effective October 12, 1984, are not entitled to extra good time deductions.
(l) A pretrial detainee may not earn good time while in pretrial status. A pretrial detainee, however, may be recommended for good time credit. This recommendation shall be considered in the event that the pretrial detainee is later sentenced on the crime for which he or she was in pretrial status.
(m) An inmate committed for civil contempt is not entitled to extra good time deductions while serving the civil contempt sentence.
(n) A military or Coast Guard inmate may earn extra good time. Extra good time earned in Federal Prison Industries in a military or Coast Guard installation is treated the same as if earned in Federal Prison Industries in the Bureau of Prisons. Other forms of military or Coast Guard extra good time, such as Army Abatement time, are fully credited, but no seniority is allowed.
(o) American citizens who are serving sentences in foreign countries and who are subsequently returned to this country under the provisions of 18 U.S.C. chapter 306 (Pub. L. 95-144) may have earned work, labor, or program time credits in the foreign country similar to extra good time earned under 18 U.S.C. 4162. Such foreign “extra good time” credits shall be treated as if awarded under § 523.16, Lump Sum Awards, with any future lump sum award consideration in this country calculated on the basis of time served in custody of the Bureau of Prisons. After return to this country an inmate may earn extra good time at the three-day rate and advance to the five-day rate after one year of seniority is accrued. No seniority is accrued for foreign “extra good time” credits.
(p) An inmate in extra good time earning status may not waive or refuse extra good time credits.
(q) Once extra good time is awarded, it becomes vested and may not be forfeited or withheld, or retroactively terminated or disallowed.

# Subpart C—Good Conduct Time
§ 523.20
Good conduct time.
(a) The Bureau of Prisons (Bureau or BOP) awards good conduct time (GCT) credit to inmates under conditions described in this section. GCT credit may be reduced if an inmate:
(1) Commits prohibited acts which result in certain disciplinary sanctions (see part 541 of this chapter); or
(2) Fails to comply with literacy requirements in this section and part 544 of this chapter.
(b) For inmates serving a sentence for offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987:
(1) The Bureau will award inmates up to 54 days of GCT credit for each year of the sentence imposed by the court. Consistent with this methodology, the Bureau will initially determine a projected release date by calculating the maximum GCT credit possible based on the length of an inmate's imposed sentence. The projected release date is subject to change during the inmate's incarceration.
(2) The Bureau will award prorated credit for any partial final year of the sentence imposed, subject to the requirements in this section. Accordingly, BOP calculates the projected GCT credit to be awarded for any portion of a sentence that is less than a full year at a prorated amount.
(3) An inmate may receive up to 54 days of GCT credit on each anniversary date of his or her imposed sentence, subject to the requirements in this section. Credit for the last year of a term of imprisonment is awarded the day after the end of the final “anniversary period,” unless the final year is a complete year, in which case credit for the last year is awarded on the first day of the final anniversary period
(4) When the inmate reaches the Bureau-projected release date, the sentence will be satisfied and the inmate will be eligible for release.
(c) For inmates serving a sentence for offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987, but before September 13, 1994, GCT credit is vested once received and cannot be withdrawn.
(d)(1) For inmates serving a sentence for offenses committed on or after September 13, 1994, but before April 26, 1996, all GCT credit will vest annually only for inmates who have earned, or are making satisfactory progress toward earning, a high school diploma, equivalent degree, or Bureau-authorized alternative program credit (see part 544 of this chapter).
(2) For inmates serving a sentence for an offense committed on or after April 26, 1996, the Bureau will award:
(i) Up to 54 days of GCT credit for each year of the sentence imposed, applied on the anniversary date of his or her imposed sentence, if the inmate has earned or is making satisfactory progress toward earning a high school diploma, equivalent degree, or Bureau-authorized alternative program credit; or
(ii) Up to 42 days of GCT credit for each year of the sentence imposed, applied on the anniversary date of his/her imposed sentence, if the inmate does not meet conditions described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section.
(3) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section, a noncitizen (inmate who is not a citizen of the United States) who is subject to a final order of removal, deportation, or exclusion, is not required to participate in a literacy program to earn yearly awards of GCT credit. However, such inmates remain eligible to participate in literacy programs under part 544 of this chapter.
[87 FR 7943, Feb. 11, 2022]

# Subpart D—District of Columbia Educational Good Time Credit

# Source:
67 FR 48386, July 24, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 523.30
What is educational good time sentence credit?
Educational good time sentence credit is authorized by District of Columbia (D.C.) Code § 24-221.01, and reduces the amount of time to serve under a term of imprisonment. In these rules, we refer to D.C. educational good time as “DCEGT.”
§ 523.31
Who is eligible for DCEGT?
You are eligible for DCEGT if:
(a) You are incarcerated in a Bureau of Prisons' (Bureau) institution or a Bureau contract facility;
(b) You are serving a term of imprisonment for a D.C. criminal code violation committed before August 5, 2000;
(c) Your Unit Team approved or designed a plan for you to complete a program designated by the Bureau as eligible for DCEGT;
(d) The Supervisor of Education (SOE) finds that you successfully completed a Bureau-designated education program on or after August 5, 1997; and
(e) You did not violate prison discipline rules while enrolled in the program (see § 523.33).
§ 523.32
How much DCEGT can I earn?
(a) You can earn 5 days DCEGT for each month you were enrolled in a designated program, up to the maximum amount designated by the Bureau for the type of program successfully completed.
(b) You are limited to 5 days per month DCEGT, even if enrolled in more than one designated program.
(c) Enrollment in a designated program for any portion of a calendar month earns one full month's worth of DCEGT.
(d) You are not eligible for DCEGT which, if awarded, would make you past due for release.
(e) Once appropriately awarded, DCEGT vests, and cannot be forfeited.
§ 523.33
How is eligibility for DCEGT limited?
Eligibility for DCEGT is limited in two ways:
(a) If you violate prison rules, you are not eligible for one month's worth of DCEGT for each disciplinary incident committed during the program enrollment period. A Discipline Hearing Officer, or other staff using procedures similar to those in 28 CFR 541.17, must determine that you committed a prohibited act.
(b) The nature of your offense may limit your eligibility for DCEGT under D.C. Code 24-221.01b or 24-221.06.
§ 523.34
How can I challenge DCEGT award decisions?
You can use the Administrative Remedy Program, 28 CFR 542.10 through 542.19, to challenge Bureau of Prisons decisions regarding DCEGT.

# Subpart E—First Step Act Time Credits

# Source:
87 FR 2717, Jan. 19, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 523.40
Purpose.
(a) The purpose of this subpart is to describe procedures for the earning and application of Time Credits as authorized by 18 U.S.C. 3632(d)(4) and Section 101 of the First Step Act of 2018 (Pub. L. 115-391, December 21, 2018, 132 Stat. 5194) (FSA), hereinafter referred to as “FSA Time Credits” or “Time Credits.”
(b) Generally, as defined and described in this subpart, an eligible inmate who successfully participates in Evidence-Based Recidivism Reduction (EBRR) Programs or Productive Activities (PAs) that are recommended based on the inmate's risk and needs assessment may earn FSA Time Credits to be applied toward prerelease custody or early transfer to supervised release under 18 U.S.C. 3624(g).
§ 523.41
Definitions.
(a)
Evidence-Based Recidivism Reduction (EBRR) Program.
An EBRR Program is a group or individual activity that has been shown by empirical evidence to reduce recidivism or is based on research indicating that it is likely to be effective in reducing recidivism; and is designed to help prisoners succeed in their communities upon release from prison. EBRR Programs may include, but are not limited to, those involving the following types of activities:
(1) Social learning and communication, interpersonal, anti-bullying, rejection response, and other life skills;
(2) Family relationship building, structured parent-child interaction, and parenting skills;
(3) Classes on morals or ethics;
(4) Academic classes;
(5) Cognitive behavioral treatment;
(6) Mentoring;
(7) Substance abuse treatment;
(8) Vocational training;
(9) Faith-based classes or services;
(10) Civic engagement and reintegrative community services;
(11) Inmate work and employment opportunities;
(12) Victim impact classes or other restorative justice programs; and
(13) Trauma counseling and trauma-informed support programs.
(b)
Productive Activity (PA).
A PA is a group or individual activity that allows an inmate to remain productive and thereby maintain or work toward achieving a minimum or low risk of recidivating.
(c)
Successful participation.
(1) An eligible inmate must be “successfully participating” in EBRR Programs or PAs to earn FSA Time Credits for those EBRR Programs or PAs.
(2) “Successful participation” requires a determination by Bureau staff that an eligible inmate has participated in the EBRR programs or PAs that the Bureau has recommended based on the inmate's individualized risk and needs assessment, and has complied with the requirements of each particular EBRR Program or PA.
(3) Temporary operational or programmatic interruptions authorized by the Bureau that would prevent an inmate from participation in EBRR programs or PAs will not ordinarily affect an eligible inmate's “successful participation” for the purposes of FSA Time Credit eligibility.
(4) An eligible inmate, as described in paragraph (d) of this section, will generally not be considered to be “successfully participating” in EBRR Programs or PAs in situations including, but not limited to:
(i) Placement in a Special Housing Unit;
(ii) Designation status outside the institution (
e.g.,
for extended medical placement in a hospital or outside institution, an escorted trip, a furlough, etc.);
(iii) Temporary transfer to the custody of another Federal or non-Federal government agency (
e.g.,
on state or Federal writ, transfer to state custody for service of sentence, etc.);
(iv) Placement in mental health/psychiatric holds; or
(v) “Opting out” (choosing not to participate in the EBRR programs or PAs that the Bureau has recommended based on the inmate's individualized risk and needs assessment).
(5)(i) If an eligible inmate “opts out,” or chooses not to participate in any of the EBRR programs or PAs that the Bureau has recommended based on the inmate's individualized risk and needs assessment, the inmate's choice must be documented by staff.
(ii) Opting out will not, by itself, be considered a disciplinary violation. However, violation of specific requirements or rules of a particular recommended EBRR Program or PA, including refusal to participate or withdrawal, may be considered a disciplinary violation (
see
this part).
(iii) Opting out will result in exclusion from further benefits or privileges allowable under the FSA, until the date the inmate “opts in” (chooses to participate in the EBRR programs or PAs that the Bureau has recommended based on the inmate's individualized risk and needs assessment, as documented by staff).
(d)
Eligible inmate
—(1)
Eligible to earn FSA Time Credits.
An inmate who is
eligible to earn
FSA Time Credits is an
eligible inmate
for the purposes of this subpart. Any inmate sentenced to a term of imprisonment pursuant to a conviction for a Federal criminal offense, or any person in the custody of the Bureau, is
eligible to earn
FSA Time Credits, subject to the exception described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(2)
Exception.
If the inmate is serving a term of imprisonment for an offense specified in 18 U.S.C. 3632(d)(4)(D), the inmate is not
eligible to earn
FSA Time Credits.
§ 523.42
Earning First Step Act Time Credits.
(a)
When an eligible inmate begins earning FSA Time Credits.
An eligible inmate begins earning FSA Time Credits after the inmate's term of imprisonment commences (the date the inmate arrives or voluntarily surrenders at the designated Bureau facility where the sentence will be served).
(b)
Dates of participation in EBRRs or PAs.
(1) An inmate cannot earn FSA Time Credits for programming or activities in which he or she participated before December 21, 2018, the date of enactment of the First Step Act of 2018.
(2) An eligible inmate, as defined in this subpart, may earn FSA Time Credits for programming and activities in which he or she participated from December 21, 2018, until January 14, 2020.
(3) An eligible inmate, as defined in this subpart, may earn FSA Time Credit if he or she is successfully participating in EBRR programs or PAs that the Bureau has recommended based on the inmate's individualized risk and needs assessment on or after January 15, 2020.
(c)
Amount of FSA Time Credits that may be earned.
(1) For every thirty-day period that an eligible inmate has successfully participated in EBRR Programs or PAs recommended based on the inmate's risk and needs assessment, that inmate will earn ten days of FSA Time Credits.
(2) For every thirty-day period that an eligible inmate has successfully participated in EBRR Programs or PAs recommended based on the inmate's risk and needs assessment, that inmate will earn an additional five days of FSA Time Credits if the inmate:
(i) Is determined by the Bureau to be at a minimum or low risk for recidivating; and
(ii) Has maintained a consistent minimum or low risk of recidivism over the most recent two consecutive risk and needs assessments conducted by the Bureau.
§ 523.43
Loss of FSA Time Credits.
(a)
Procedure for loss of FSA Time Credits.
An inmate may lose earned FSA Time Credits for violation of the requirements or rules of an EBRR Program or PA. The procedures for loss of FSA Time Credits are described in 28 CFR part 541.
(b)
How to appeal loss of FSA Time Credits.
Inmates may seek review of the loss of earned FSA Time Credits through the Bureau's Administrative Remedy Program (28 CFR part 542).
(c)
Restoration of FSA Time Credits.
An inmate who has lost FSA Time Credits under this subpart may have part or all of the FSA Time Credits restored to him or her, on a case-by-case basis, after clear conduct (behavior clear of inmate disciplinary infractions under 28 CFR part 541) for two consecutive risk and needs assessments conducted by the Bureau.
§ 523.44
Application of FSA Time Credits.
(a)
How Time Credits may be applied.
For any inmate eligible to earn FSA Time Credits under this subpart who is:
(1) Sentenced to a term of imprisonment under the U.S. Code, the Bureau may apply FSA Time Credits toward prerelease custody or supervised release as described in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.
(2) Subject to a final order of removal under immigration laws as defined in 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(17) (
see
18 U.S.C. 3632(d)(4)(E)), the Bureau may not apply FSA Time Credits toward prerelease custody or early transfer to supervised release.
(3) Serving a term of imprisonment pursuant to a conviction for an offense under laws other than the U.S. Code (see Section 105 of the FSA, Pub. L. 115-391, 132 Stat. 5214 (not codified; included as note to 18 U.S.C. 3621)), the Bureau may not apply FSA Time Credits toward prerelease custody or early transfer to supervised release. This paragraph (a)(3) will not bar the application of FSA Time Credits, as authorized by the DC Code, for those serving a term of imprisonment for an offense under the DC Code.
(b)
Consideration for application of FSA Time Credits.
Where otherwise permitted by this subpart, the Bureau may apply FSA Time Credits toward prerelease custody or early transfer to supervised release under 18 U.S.C. 3624(g) only if an eligible inmate has:
(1) Earned FSA Time Credits in an amount that is equal to the remainder of the inmate's imposed term of imprisonment;
(2) Shown through the periodic risk reassessments a demonstrated recidivism risk reduction or maintained a minimum or low recidivism risk, during the term of imprisonment; and
(3) Had the remainder of his or her imposed term of imprisonment computed under applicable law.
(c)
Prerelease custody.
The Bureau may apply earned FSA Time Credits toward prerelease custody only when an eligible inmate has, in addition to satisfying the criteria in paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) Maintained a minimum or low recidivism risk through his or her last two risk and needs assessments; or
(2) Had a petition to be transferred to prerelease custody or supervised release approved by the Warden, after the Warden's determination that:
(i) The prisoner would not be a danger to society if transferred to prerelease custody or supervised release;
(ii) The prisoner has made a good faith effort to lower their recidivism risk through participation in recidivism reduction programs or productive activities; and
(iii) The prisoner is unlikely to recidivate.
(d)
Transfer to supervised release.
The Bureau may apply FSA Time Credits toward early transfer to supervised release under 18 U.S.C. 3624(g) only when an eligible inmate has, in addition to satisfying the criteria in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section:
(1) An eligible inmate has maintained a minimum or low recidivism risk through his or her last risk and needs assessment;
(2) An eligible inmate has a term of supervised release after imprisonment included as part of his or her sentence as imposed by the sentencing court; and
(3) The application of FSA Time Credits would result in transfer to supervised release no earlier than 12 months before the date that transfer to supervised release would otherwise have occurred.
Pt. 524

# PART 524—CLASSIFICATION OF INMATES
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Classification and Program Review of Inmates
Sec.
524.10
Purpose.
524.11
Process for classification and program reviews.

# Subpart C—Youth Corrections Act (YCA) Programs
524.20
Purpose and scope.
524.21
Definitions.
524.22
YCA program.
524.23
Program reviews.
524.24
Parole hearings.
524.25
U.S. Parole Commission.
Subpart D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Progress Reports
524.40
Purpose and scope.
524.41
Types of progress reports.
524.42
Content of progress reports.
524.43
Inmate's access to progress reports.

# Subpart F—Central Inmate Monitoring (CIM) System
524.70
Purpose and scope.
524.71
Responsibility.
524.72
CIM assignment categories.
524.73
Classification procedures.
524.74
Activities clearance.
524.75
Periodic review.
524.76
Appeals of CIM classification.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 3521-3528, 3621, 3622, 3624, 4001, 4042, 4046, 4081, 4082 (Repealed in part as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 5006-5024 (Repealed October 12, 1984 as to offenses committed after that date), 5039; 21 U.S.C. 848; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Classification and Program Review of Inmates

# Source:
71 FR 36007, June 23, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 524.10
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to explain the Bureau of Prisons (Bureau) process for classifying newly committed inmates and conducting program reviews for all inmates except:
(a) Pretrial inmates, covered in 28 CFR part 551; and
(b) Inmates committed for study and observation.
§ 524.11
Process for classification and program reviews.
(a)
When:
(1) Newly committed inmates will be classified within 28 calendar days of arrival at the institution designated for service of sentence.
(2) Inmates will receive a program review at least once every 180 calendar days. When an inmate is within twelve months of the projected release date, staff will conduct a program review at least once every 90 calendar days.
(b)
Inmate appearance before classification team:
(1) Inmates will be notified at least 48 hours before that inmate's scheduled appearance before the classification team (whether for the initial classification or later program reviews).
(2) Inmates may submit a written waiver of the 48-hour notice requirement.
(3) The inmate is expected to attend the initial classification and all later program reviews. If the inmate refuses to appear at a scheduled meeting, staff must document on the Program Review Report the inmate's refusal and, if known, the reasons for refusal, and give a copy of this report to the inmate.
(c)
Program Review Report:
Staff must complete a Program Review Report at the inmate's initial classification. This report ordinarily includes information on the inmate's apparent needs and offers a correctional program designed to meet those needs. The Unit Manager and the inmate must sign the Program Review Report, and a copy must be given to the inmate.
(d)
Work Programs:
Each sentenced inmate who is physically and mentally able is assigned to a work program at initial classification. The inmate must participate in this work assignment and any other program required by Bureau policy, court order, or statute. The inmate may choose not to participate in other voluntary programs.

# Subpart C—Youth Corrections Act (YCA) Programs

# Source:
58 FR 50808, Sept. 28, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 524.20
Purpose and scope.
This subpart establishes procedures for designation, classification, parole, and release of Youth Corrections Act (YCA) inmates. In keeping with court findings, and in accord with the repeal of 18 U.S.C. chapter 402, sections 5011 and 5015(b), all offenders sentenced under the provisions of the YCA presently in custody, those retaken into custody as parole violators, and those yet to be committed (probation violators, appeal bond cases, etc.) may be transferred to or placed in adult institutions under the provisions of this policy.
§ 524.21
Definitions.
(a)
YCA inmate:
An inmate sentenced under provision of the Youth Corrections Act who has not received an in-person “no further benefit” finding by his or her sentencing judge, and whose YCA sentence has not been completely absorbed by an adult federal sentence.
(b)
No further benefit:
An in-person finding by the inmate's sentencing court that YCA treatment will not be of further benefit to the inmate. An inmate receiving such court finding is accordingly not considered to be a YCA inmate.
§ 524.22
YCA program.
(a) Wardens are to ensure each committed youth offender is scheduled for a three-phase program plan which will include a classification phase, a treatment phase, and a pre-release phase. A program plan for each YCA inmate will be developed by the Unit Team as a part of the classification phase. The Warden may exempt a YCA inmate from program participation when individual circumstances warrant such exceptions. Such exceptions must be requested and acknowledged by the inmate, and the reason(s) for exemption must be documented in the inmate's central file.
(1)
Classification phase:
The classification phase begins upon the inmate's arrival at the designated institution. It consists of evaluation, orientation, unit assignment, and concludes when the inmate has attended the initial classification (or transfer classification) meeting with the Unit Team. YCA inmates are to participate in the classification process prior to the development of their individual program plans. The YCA inmate is to have received a psychological screening prior
to attending the initial classification meeting. YCA program plans will include specific goals relative to:
(i) Behavior;
(ii) Treatment/self improvement;
(iii) Pre-release.
(2)
Treatment phase:
YCA inmates are to be exposed to unit-based and community-based (if otherwise eligible) programs. Each YCA inmate shall be periodically reviewed during this phase. The treatment phase begins when the inmate attends the programs and activities described in the program plan which were established at the culmination of the classification phase. Each YCA inmate shall be assigned programs in accordance with the inmate's needs and the established program plan. The “program day” shall consist of morning, afternoon, and evening time periods, during which the inmate shall be scheduled for treatment programs, work, and leisure-time activities. The inmate shall be expected to comply with the program plan. The inmate's participation in a treatment program is required, not optional. An inmate's failure to participate may result in disciplinary action.
(3)
Pre-release phase:
The YCA inmate shall enter the pre-release phase approximately 9 months prior to release. The pre-release phase is ordinarily divided into two segments: participation in the institution pre-release program and a stay at a Community Corrections Center (CCC), if otherwise eligible. Institution pre-release programs shall focus on the types of problems the inmate may face upon return to the community, such as re-establishing family relationships, managing a household, finding and keeping a job, and developing a successful life style. In addition, the pre-release phase may include visits from prospective employers.
(b) Staff shall establish incentives to motivate YCA inmates and to encourage program completion. Examples of such incentives which may be used are special recognition, awards, and “vacation days”.
(c) The program plan, and the YCA inmate's participation in fulfilling goals contained within the plan, are fundamental factors considered by the U.S. Parole Commission in determining when a YCA inmate should be paroled. Given the importance and joint use of the YCA programming process, the current program plan and a summary of the inmate's progress in meeting established treatment goals must be made available for review and discussion by the Commission at each parole hearing. In addition, a staff member familiar with the YCA inmate's case should be present at any parole hearing to clarify any questions concerning the plan or the inmate's progress in completing the plan.
(d) Upon full and satisfactory completion of the program plan, the Warden will notify the U.S. Parole Commission and make a specific recommendation for release.
§ 524.23
Program reviews.
Staff shall conduct periodic reviews of the inmate's program plan and shall modify the plan in accordance with the level of progress shown. Each YCA inmate shall be afforded a review at least once each 90 days, and shall have a formal progress report prepared every year summarizing the inmate's level of achievement. If the inmate's program plan needs to be modified in light of the progress made, or the lack thereof, appropriate changes will be made and a revised program plan will be developed and documented. Staff shall ordinarily notify the inmate of the 90-day review at least 48 hours prior to the inmate's scheduled appearance before the Unit Team. An inmate may waive in writing the requirement of 48 hours notice.
§ 524.24
Parole hearings.
All YCA inmates have been extended the parole procedures present in
Watts
vs.
Hadden.
YCA inmates shall be scheduled for interim hearings on the following schedules:
(a) For those inmates serving YCA sentences of less than 7 years, an in-person hearing will be scheduled every 9 months.
(b) For those inmates serving YCA sentences of 7 years or more, an in-person hearing will be scheduled every 12 months.
(c) Upon notification of a response to treatment/certified completion of a program plan by the Bureau of Prisons, the Parole Commission will schedule the inmate for an in-person hearing on
the next available docket, unless the inmate is paroled on the record. If a hearing is held and the inmate is denied parole, the next hearing shall be scheduled in accordance with the schedule outlined in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(d) The hearings mentioned in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are not required for inmates who have been continued to expiration or mandatory parole who have less than one year remaining to serve or to a CCC placement date.
§ 524.25
U.S. Parole Commission.
The U.S. Parole Commission is the releasing authority for all YCA inmates except for full term and conditional releases. The Commission shall be provided a progress report:
(a) Upon request of the Commission,
(b) Prior to any interim hearing or pre-release record review, or
(c) Upon determination by the inmate's Unit Team, with concurrence by the Warden, that the inmate has completed his or her program plan.
Subpart D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Progress Reports

# Source:
55 FR 49977, Dec. 3, 1990, unless otherwise noted.
§ 524.40
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau of Prisons maintains current information on each inmate through progress reports completed by staff. The progress report summarizes information relating to the inmate's adjustment during confinement, program participation, and readiness for release.
§ 524.41
Types of progress reports.
The Bureau of Prisons prepares the following types of progress reports.
(a) Initial Hearing—prepared for an inmate's initial parole hearing when progress has not been summarized within the previous 180 days.
(b) Statutory Interim/Two-Thirds Review—prepared for a parole hearing conducted 18 or 24 months following a hearing at which no effective parole date was established, or for a two-thirds review (see 28 CFR 2.53) unless the inmate has waived the parole hearing.
(c) Pre-Release—
(1) Record Review—prepared for and mailed to the appropriate Parole Commission office at least eight months prior to the inmate's presumptive parole date.
(2) Final—prepared at least 90 days prior to the release of an offender to a term of supervision.
(d)
Transfer report
—prepared on an inmate transferring to community confinement or any non-Bureau facility.
(e) Other—prepared for any reason other than those previously stated in this section. The reason (e.g., court request, clemency review) is specified in the report.
[55 FR 49977, Dec. 3, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 6856, Feb. 11, 1994; 60 FR 10722, Feb. 27, 1995; 63 FR 7604, Feb. 13, 1998; 78 FR 63877, Oct. 25, 2013]
§ 524.42
Content of progress reports.
Staff shall include the following in each progress report:
(a) Institution (full name) and Date;
(b) Type of Progress Report;
(c) Committed name;
(d) Registration number;
(e) Age;
(f) Present security and custody level;
(g) Offense(s) for which committed;
(h) Sentence;
(i) Date sentence began;
(j) Time served to date, including jail time credit;
(k) Good conduct time/Extra good time earned;
(l) Statutory good time withheld or forfeited; Disallowed good conduct time;
(m) Projected release date;
(n) Most recent Parole Commission action, including any special conditions or requirements (if applicable);
(o) Detainers and pending charges on file;
(p) Institutional adjustment; this ordinarily includes information on the inmate's:
(1) Program plans;
(2) Work assignments and skills acquired;
(3) Educational/vocational participation;
(4) Counseling programs;
(5) Incident reports;
(6) Institutional movement;
(7) Physical and mental health, including any significant mental or physical health problems, and any corrective action taken; and
(8) Financial responsibility.
(q) Release planning:
(1) Where appropriate, staff shall request that the inmate provide a specific release plan;
(2) Staff shall identify available release resources (including CCC) and any particular problem that may be present in release planning.
[59 FR 6857, Feb. 11, 1994]
§ 524.43
Inmate's access to progress reports.
Upon request, an inmate may read and receive a copy of any progress report retained in the inmate's central file which had been prepared on that inmate after October 15, 1974. Staff shall allow the inmate the opportunity to read a newly prepared progress report and shall request the inmate sign and date the report. If the inmate refuses to do so, staff witnessing the refusal shall document this refusal on the report. Staff shall then offer to provide a copy of the progress report to the inmate.
[59 FR 6857, Feb. 11, 1994]

# Subpart F—Central Inmate Monitoring (CIM) System

# Source:
61 FR 40143, July 31, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 524.70
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau of Prisons monitors and controls the transfer, temporary release (e.g., on writ), and community activities of certain inmates who present special needs for management. Such inmates, known as central inmate monitoring (CIM) cases, require a higher level of review which may include Central Office and/or Regional Office clearance for transfers, temporary releases, or community activities. This monitoring is not to preclude a CIM case from such activities, when the inmate is otherwise eligible, but rather is to provide protection to all concerned and to contribute to the safe and orderly operation of federal institutions.
§ 524.71
Responsibility.
Authority for actions relative to the CIM system is delegated to the Assistant Director, Correctional Programs Division, to Regional Directors, and to Wardens. The Assistant Director, Correctional Programs Division, and Regional Directors shall assign a person responsible for coordinating CIM activities. The Case Management Coordinator (CMC) shall provide oversight and coordination of CIM activities at the institutional level, and the Community Corrections Manager shall assume these responsibilities for contract facilities.
§ 524.72
CIM assignment categories.
CIM cases are classified according to the following assignments:
(a)
Witness Security cases.
Individuals who agree to cooperate with law enforcement, judicial, or correctional authorities, frequently place their lives or safety in jeopardy by being a witness or intended witness against persons or groups involved in illegal activities. Accordingly, procedures have been developed to help ensure the safety of these individuals. There are two types of Witness Security cases: Department of Justice (authorized by the Attorney General under title V of Public Law 91-452, 84 Stat. 933); and Bureau of Prisons Witness Security cases (authorized by the Assistant Director, Correctional Programs Division).
(b)
Threats to government officials.
Inmates who have made threats to government officials or who have been identified, in writing, by the United States Secret Service as requiring special surveillance.
(c)
Broad publicity.
Inmates who have received widespread publicity as a result of their criminal activity or notoriety as public figures.
(d)
Disruptive group.
Inmates who belong to or are closely affiliated with groups (e.g., prison gangs), which have a history of disrupting operations and security in either state or federal penal (which includes correctional and detention facilities) institutions. This assignment also includes those persons
who may require separation from a specific disruptive group.
(e)
State prisoners.
Inmates, other than Witness Security cases, who have been accepted into the Bureau of Prisons for service of their state sentences. This assignment includes cooperating state witnesses and regular state boarders.
(f)
Separation.
Inmates who may not be confined in the same institution (unless the institution has the ability to prevent any physical contact between the separatees) with other specified individuals who are presently housed in federal custody or who may come into federal custody in the future. Factors to consider in classifying an individual to this assignment include, but are not limited to, testimony provided by or about an individual (in open court, to a grand jury, etc.), and whether the inmate has exhibited aggressive or intimidating behavior towards other specific individuals, either in the community or within the institution. This assignment also includes those inmates who have provided authorities with information concerning the unauthorized or illegal activities of others. This assignment may also include inmates from whom there is no identifiable threat, but who are to be separated from others at the request of the Federal Judiciary or U.S. Attorneys.
(g)
Special supervision.
Inmates who require special management attention, but who do not ordinarily warrant assignment in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section. For example, this assignment may include an inmate with a background in law enforcement or an inmate who has been involved in a hostage situation. Others may include those who are members of a terrorist group with a potential for violence.
§ 524.73
Classification procedures.
(a)
Initial assignment.
Except as provided for in paragraphs (a) (1) through (4) of this section, an inmate (including pretrial inmates) may be classified as a CIM case at any time by a Community Corrections Manager or by appropriate staff at the Central Office, Regional Office, or institution. This initial classification is effective upon documentation in the inmate's record.
(1)
Witness Security cases.
Witness Security cases are designated by the Central Office only. An inmate's participation in the Department of Justice Witness Security Program is voluntary. A commitment interview and an admission and orientation interview are to be conducted with the Witness Security inmate to ensure that the inmate understands the conditions of confinement within the Bureau of Prisons. Central Office classification of an individual as a Witness Security case, under either the Department of Justice or Bureau of Prisons, does not require additional review, and overrides any other CIM assignment.
(2)
State prisoners.
Appropriate staff in the Central Office or Regional Office designate state prisoners accepted into the Bureau of Prisons from state or territorial jurisdictions. All state prisoners while solely in service of the state sentence are automatically included in the CIM system to facilitate designations, transfers, court appearances, and other movements.
(3)
Special supervision.
Placement in this assignment may be made only upon the authorization of a Regional Director or the Assistant Director, Correctional Programs Division.
(4)
Recommitted offenders.
An inmate who is recommitted to federal custody, who at the time of release was classified as a CIM case, retains this classification pending a review of the CIM status in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Notification.
The case manager shall ensure that the affected inmate is notified in writing as promptly as possible of the classification and the basis for it. Witness Security cases will be notified through a commitment interview. The notice of the basis may be limited in the interest of security or safety. For example, in separation cases under § 524.72, notice will not include the names of those from whom the inmate must be separated. The inmate shall sign for and receive a copy of the notification form. If the inmate refuses to sign the notification form, staff witnessing the refusal shall indicate this fact on the notification form and then sign the form. Notification is not required for pretrial inmates. Any
subsequent modification of a CIM assignment or removal from the CIM system requires separate notification to the inmate.
(c)
Initial review.
A classification may be made at any level to achieve the immediate effect of requiring prior clearance for an inmate's transfer, temporary release, or participation in community activities. Except for Central Office or Regional Office classification of an individual as a state prisoner in sole service of the state sentence or for classification of pretrial inmates made by designated staff at the institution, a review by designated staff (ordinarily within 60 days of notification to the inmate) is required to determine whether a sound basis exists for the classification. Staff making the initial classification shall forward to the reviewing authority complete information regarding the inmate's classification. An inmate not notified of a change in the classification by the reviewing authority within 60 days from the date of the initial notification may consider the CIM classification final. Reviewing authorities for CIM classification are:
(1)
Central Office Inmate Monitoring Section
—reviews classification decisions for all future separation assignments (including recommitments) for Witness Security cases and for any combination of assignments involving Witness Security cases.
(2)
Regional Office
—reviews CIM classification decisions for Disruptive Group, Broad Publicity, Threat to Government Officials, Special Supervision, State Prisoners not in sole service of state sentence and initial multiple assignments except Witness Security Cases.
(3)
Warden, or Designee
—reviews CIM classification decisions for all separation assignments.
(d)
Removal.
(1) Because participation in the Department of Justice Witness Security Program is voluntary, such participants may request removal from this assignment at any time. Such request shall be forwarded to the Central Office Inmate Monitoring Section. Actual removal of the CIM assignment will not occur until after approval from the Department of Justice is received.
(2) The reviewing authority is responsible for determining if removal or modification of any CIM classification other than a Department of Justice Witness Security case is appropriate. The inmate retains the CIM classification pending a decision by the reviewing authority.
(3) When an inmate is removed for any reason from a CIM classification (for example, because the reviewing authority either disapproves the CIM classification or approves removal of a CIM classification based on new information), the appropriate staff member shall ensure that the relevant portions of the inmate central file are either removed or, when part of a larger document, are amended to clearly reflect removal of the CIM assignment. Staff shall notify the inmate of the decision and document any change in the inmate's record, and supportive documentation and the written basis for removal are to be retained in the inmate privacy file.
§ 524.74
Activities clearance.
(a) Except as provided for in paragraph (b) of this section, the Warden is the clearance authority on all transfers, temporary releases, community activities, and escorted trips.
(b)
Witness Security cases.
Central Office Inmate Monitoring Section staff shall be the clearance authority on all transfers, temporary releases, community activities, and escorted trips for Witness Security cases, except in a medical emergency. In a medical emergency, the Warden may transfer a Witness Security case to a local hospital for emergency medical care without prior clearance.
§ 524.75
Periodic review.
The Warden shall ensure that the status of an inmate's CIM assignment is considered at each program review. When staff believe that removal or modification of a CIM classification is appropriate, the institution's CMC and the appropriate reviewing authority must be notified. Only the reviewing authority shall determine if removal or modification of the CIM classification is appropriate.
§ 524.76
Appeals of CIM classification.
An inmate may at any time appeal (through the Administrative Remedy
Program) the inmate's classification as a CIM case. Inmates identified as Witness Security cases may choose to address their concerns directly to the Inmate Monitoring Section, Central Office, rather than use the Administrative Remedy Program.
Pt. 527

# PART 527—TRANSFERS
Subparts A-C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Transfer of Inmates to State Agents for Production on State Writs
Sec.
527.30
Purpose and scope.
527.31
Procedures.

# Subpart E—Transfer of Offenders to Foreign Countries
527.40
Purpose and scope.
527.41
Definitions.
527.42
Limitations on transfer of offenders to foreign countries.
527.43
Notification of inmates.
527.44
Request for transfer to country of citizenship or nationality.
527.45
Bureau determination on request for transfer.
527.46
Transfer procedures.
527.47
Transfer of state prisoners to other countries.
527.48
Transfer of American national prisoners from foreign countries.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 3565, 3569, 3621, 3622, 3624, 4001, 4042, 4081, 4082 (Repealed in part as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 4100-4115, 4161-4166 (Repealed as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 4201-4218, 5003, 5006-5024 (Repealed October 12, 1984 as to offenses committed after that date), 5039; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510; 28 CFR 0.95-0.99.
Subparts A-C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Transfer of Inmates to State Agents for Production on State Writs

# Source:
46 FR 34549, July 1, 1981, unless otherwise noted.
§ 527.30
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau of Prisons will consider a request made on behalf of a state or local court that an inmate be transferred to the physical custody of state or local agents pursuant to state writ of habeas corpus
ad prosequendum
or
ad testificandum.
The Warden at the institution in which the inmate is confined is authorized to approve this transfer in accordance with the provisions of this rule.
§ 527.31
Procedures.
(a) These procedures apply to state and federal inmates serving sentences in federal institutions, and shall be followed prior to an inmate's transfer to state or local agents other than through the Interstate Agreement on Detainers.
(b) The Warden shall authorize transfer only when satisfied that the inmate's appearance is necessary, that state and local arrangements are satisfactory, that the safety or other interests of the inmate (such as an imminent parole hearing) are not seriously jeopardized, and that federal interests, which include those of the public, will not be interfered with, or harmed. Authorization may not be given where substantial concern exists over any of these considerations.
(c) The request for transfer of custody to state agents shall be made by the prosecutor or other authority who acts on behalf of the court and shall be directed to the Warden of the institution in which the inmate is confined. The request shall be made by letter. The request shall indicate the need for appearance of the inmate, name of the court, nature of the action, date of the requested appearance, name and phone number of the state agency or other organization with responsibility for transporting the inmate, the name and location where the inmate will be confined during legal proceedings, and anticipated date of return. For civil cases, the request shall also indicate the reason that production on writ is necessary and some other alternative is not available. The applying authority shall provide either at the time of application or with the agent assuming custody, a statement signed by an authorized official that state or local officials with custody will provide for the safekeeping, custody, and care of the inmate, will assume full responsibility for that custody, and will return the inmate to Bureau of Prisons' custody promptly on conclusion of the inmate's
appearance in the state or local proceedings for which the writ is issued.
(d) A certified copy of the writ (one with the Seal of the Court) must be received at the institution prior to release of the inmate. Institution staff shall verify the authenticity of the writ.
(e) Institution staff shall maintain contact with the state or local law enforcement agency with responsibility for transfer of the inmate to determine the exact date and time for transfer of custody. If the inmate is awaiting federal trial or has federal civil proceedings pending, staff must clear the transfer through the U.S. Attorney.
(f) Institution staff shall determine from the state or local agency the names of the agents assuming custody. Staff must carefully examine the credentials of the agents assuming custody. In any doubtful case, verification should be sought.
(g) Transfers in civil cases pursuant to a writ of habeas corpus ad testificandum must be cleared through both the Regional Counsel and the Warden. Transfer ordinarily shall be recommended only if the case is substantial, where testimony cannot be obtained through alternative means such as depositions or interrogatories, and where security arrangements permit. Postponement of the production until after the inmate's release from federal custody will always be considered, particularly if release is within twelve months.
(h) Release of inmates classified as Central Inmate Monitoring Cases requires review with and/or coordination by appropriate authorities in accordance with the provisions of 28 CFR part 524, subpart F.
[46 FR 34549, July 1, 1981, as amended at 50 FR 40105, Oct. 1, 1985; 62 FR 13826, Mar. 24, 1997]

# Subpart E—Transfer of Offenders to Foreign Countries

# Source:
80 FR 38621, July 7, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 527.40
Purpose and scope.
This subpart describes the Bureau of Prisons (Bureau) procedures regarding its role in the transfer of offenders to foreign countries and the transfer of American offenders back to the United States pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 4100,
et seq.,
and applicable transfer treaties and conventions.
§ 527.41
Definitions.
For the purpose of this subpart, the following definitions apply.
(a)
Treaty nation.
A country with which the United States has a transfer treaty relationship either through a bilateral treaty or a multilateral transfer convention.
(b)
State prisoner.
An inmate serving a sentence imposed in a court in one of the states of the United States, or in a territory or commonwealth of the United States.
(c)
Departure institution.
The Bureau of Prisons institution to which an eligible inmate is finally transferred for return to the country of which the inmate is a citizen or national.
(d)
Admission institution.
The Bureau of Prisons institution where a United States citizen or national-inmate is first received from a treaty nation.
§ 527.42
Limitations on transfer of offenders to foreign countries.
The transfer treaties and conventions, as well as 18 U.S.C. 4100-4115, impose specific requirements that an inmate must satisfy in order to be returned to his or her country of citizenship or nationality.
§ 527.43
Notification of inmates.
Foreign national inmates will be notified about the International Prisoner Transfer Program and the procedures to follow to apply for transfer as follows:
(a) Through information provided in the institution's admission and orientation program; and
(b) Through individual notice given to an inmate who is a citizen or national of a treaty nation. The notice must:
(1) Reiterate the availability of the transfer program;
(2) Provide the inmate with an opportunity to inquire about transfer to the country of which the inmate is a citizen or national; and
(3) Inform the inmates of the procedures set forth in this part.
§ 527.44
Request for transfer to country of which inmate is a citizen or national.
An inmate who is eligible for and desires to transfer to the country of which the inmate is a citizen or national for service of a sentence imposed in a United States Court must indicate the inmate's interest by completing and signing the appropriate form and giving it to Bureau staff for further processing.
§ 527.45
Bureau determination on request for transfer.
The following is the process by which determinations are made on an inmate's request to be transferred to the country of which the inmate is a citizen or national to serve a sentence imposed in a United States Court.
(a)
Warden's determination.
Upon verifying that the inmate is eligible for transfer, the Warden forwards all relevant information, including a complete application package, to the Assistant Director, Correctional Programs Division, Central Office.
(b)
Central Office and Department of Justice determination.
(1) The Assistant Director, Correctional Programs Division reviews the submitted material and forwards the application package to the Department of Justice for review.
(2) The Department of Justice notifies the inmate of the determinations made.
§ 527.46
Transfer procedures.
(a)
Treaty nation determination.
If the Department of Justice approves the transfer request, the treaty nation will be asked if it consents to the transfer of its citizen or national. The inmate will be informed of the determination made by the treaty nation.
(b)
Transfer to departure institution.
The Bureau and the Department of Justice will arrange for the inmate to be transferred to an appropriate departure institution.
(c)
Consent verification hearing.
If the treaty nation consents to the transfer, the United States will arrange a consent verification hearing for the prisoner as required by 18 U.S.C. 4107, 4108. This hearing is held before a U.S. Magistrate Judge or other judicial officer as specified in sections 4107 and 4108. The Bureau must ensure that the prisoner is available and present at the consent verification hearing.
(d)
Transfer to departure institution and foreign retrieval of inmate.
If the foreign national prisoner gives consent to transfer at the consent verification hearing, the Department of Justice will notify the treaty transfer nation.
§ 527.47
Transfer of state prisoners to other countries.
The Bureau of Prisons may assume custody of a state prisoner who has been approved for transfer to a treaty nation for the purpose of facilitating the transfer to the treaty nation. Once the state prisoner has consented to the transfer at the consent verification hearing, the Bureau assumes custody of the prisoner. The state is not required to contract for the placement of the prisoner in federal custody, nor to reimburse the United States for the cost of confinement (as would ordinarily be required by 18 U.S.C. 5003).
§ 527.48
Transfer of American national prisoners from foreign countries.
The Bureau of Prisons is responsible for:
(a) Sending escorts to foreign countries to retrieve American national prisoners who have been approved for transfer to the United States and who have had their consent verified at the consent verification hearing specified in 18 U.S.C. 4108; and
(b) Making logistical arrangements for the transfer and coordinating with the United States Parole Commission for proceedings to determine how the sentence will be administered.

# SUBCHAPTER C—INSTITUTIONAL MANAGEMENT
Pt. 540

# PART 540—CONTACT WITH PERSONS IN THE COMMUNITY

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
540.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Correspondence
540.10
Purpose and scope.
540.11
Mail depositories.
540.12
Controls and procedures.
540.13
Notification of rejections.
540.14
General correspondence.
540.15
Restricted general correspondence.
540.16
Inmate correspondence while in segregation and holdover status.
540.17
Correspondence between confined inmates.
540.18
Special mail.
540.19
Legal correspondence.
540.20
Inmate correspondence with representatives of the news media.
540.21
Payment of postage.
540.22
Special postal services.
540.23
Inmate funds received through the mails.
540.24
Returned mail.
540.25
Change of address and forwarding of mail for inmates.
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Visiting Regulations
540.40
Purpose and scope.
540.41
Visiting facilities.
540.42
Visiting times.
540.43
Frequency of visits and number of visitors.
540.44
Regular visitors.
540.45
Qualification as special visitor.
540.46
Attorney visits.
540.47
Media visits.
540.48
[Reserved]
540.49
Transportation assistance.
540.50
Visits to inmates not in regular population status.
540.51
Procedures.
540.52
Penalty for violation of visiting regulations.

# Subpart E—Contact With News Media
540.60
Purpose and scope.
540.61
Authorization.
540.62
Institutional visits.
540.63
Personal interviews.
540.64
Press pools.
540.65
Release of information.

# Subpart F—Incoming Publications
540.70
Purpose and scope.
540.71
Procedures.
540.72
Statutory restrictions requiring return of commercially published information or material which is sexually explicit or features nudity.
Subparts G-H [Reserved]

# Subpart I—Telephone Regulations for Inmates
540.100
Purpose and scope.
540.101
Procedures.
540.102
Monitoring of inmate telephone calls.
540.103
Inmate telephone calls to attorneys.
540.104
Responsibility for inmate misuse of telephones.
540.105
Expenses of inmate telephone use.
540.106
Video visiting and telephone calls under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic

# Subpart J—Communications Management Housing Units
540.200
Purpose and scope.
540.201
Designation criteria.
540.202
Designation procedures.
540.203
Written correspondence limitations.
540.204
Telephone communication limitations.
540.205
Visiting limitations.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 551, 552a; 18 U.S.C. 1791, 3621, 3622, 3624, 4001, 4042, 4081, 4082 (Repealed in part as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 5006-5024 (Repealed October 12, 1984 as to offenses committed after that date), 5039; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510; Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act, Sec. 12003(c).

# Subpart A—General

# Source:
50 FR 40108, Oct. 1, 1985, unless otherwise noted.
§ 540.2
Definitions.
(a)
General correspondence
means incoming or outgoing correspondence other than
special mail. General correspondence
includes packages sent through the mail.
(1)
Open general correspondence
means general correspondence which is not
limited to a list of authorized correspondents, except as provided in § 540.17.
(2)
Restricted general correspondence
means general correspondence which is limited to a list of authorized correspondents.
(b)
Representatives of the news media
means persons whose principal employment is to gather or report news for:
(1) A newspaper which qualifies as a general circulation newspaper in the community in which it is published. A newspaper is one of “general circulation” if it circulates among the general public and if it publishes news of a general character of general interest to the public such as news of political, religious, commercial, or social affairs. A key test to determine whether a newspaper qualifies as a “general circulation” newspaper is to determine whether the paper qualifies for the purpose of publishing legal notices in the community in which it is located or the area to which it distributes;
(2) A news magazine which has a national circulation and is sold by newsstands and by mail subscription to the general public;
(3) A national or international news service; or
(4) A radio or television news program, whose primary purpose is to report the news, of a station holding a Federal Communications Commission license.
(c)
Special mail
means correspondence
sent to
the following: President and Vice President of the United States, the U.S. Department of Justice (including the Bureau of Prisons), U.S. Attorneys Offices, Surgeon General, U.S. Public Health Service, Secretary of the Army, Navy, or Air Force, U.S. Courts (including U.S. Probation Officers), Members of the U.S. Congress, Embassies and Consulates, Governors, State Attorneys General, Prosecuting Attorneys, Directors of State Departments of Corrections, State Parole Commissioners, State Legislators, State Courts, State Probation Officers, other Federal and State law enforcement offices, attorneys, and representatives of the news media.
Special mail
also includes correspondence
received from
the following: President and Vice President of the United States, attorneys, Members of the U.S. Congress, Embassies and Consulates, the U.S. Department of Justice (excluding the Bureau of Prisons but including U.S. Attorneys), other Federal law enforcement officers, State Attorneys General, Prosecuting Attorneys, Governors, U.S. Courts (including U.S. Probation Officers), and State Courts. For incoming correspondence to be processed under the special mail procedures (see §§ 540.18-540.19), the sender must be adequately identified on the envelope, and the front of the envelope must be marked “Special Mail—Open only in the presence of the inmate”.

# Subpart B—Correspondence

# Source:
50 FR 40109, Oct. 1, 1985, unless otherwise noted.
§ 540.10
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau of Prisons encourages correspondence that is directed to socially useful goals. The Warden shall establish correspondence procedures for inmates in each institution, as authorized and suggested in this rule.
§ 540.11
Mail depositories.
The Warden shall establish at least one mail depository within the institution for an inmate to place outgoing correspondence. The Warden may establish a separate mail depository for outgoing special mail. Each item placed in a mail depository must contain a return address (see § 540.12(d)).
[50 FR 40109, Oct. 1, 1985, as amended at 64 FR 32171, June 15, 1999]
§ 540.12
Controls and procedures.
(a) The Warden shall establish and exercise controls to protect individuals, and the security, discipline, and good order of the institution. The size, complexity, and security level of the institution, the degree of sophistication of the inmates confined, and other variables require flexibility in correspondence procedures. All Wardens shall establish open general correspondence procedures.
(b) Staff shall inform each inmate in writing promptly after arrival at an institution of that institution's rules for
handling of inmate mail. This notice includes the following statement:
The staff of each institution of the Bureau of Prisons has the authority to open all mail addressed to you before it is delivered to you. “Special Mail” (mail from the President and Vice President of the U.S., attorneys, Members of the U.S. Congress, Embassies and Consulates, the U.S. Department of Justice (excluding the Bureau of Prisons but including U.S. Attorneys), other Federal law enforcement officers, State Attorneys General, Prosecuting Attorneys, Governors, U.S. Courts (including U.S. Probation Officers), and State Courts) may be opened only in your presence to be checked for contraband. This procedure occurs only if the sender is adequately identified on the envelope and the front of the envelope is marked “Special Mail—Open only in the presence of the inmate.” Other mail may be opened and read by the staff.
If you do not want your
general
correspondence opened and read, the Bureau will return it to the Postal Service. This means that you will not receive such mail. You may choose whether you want your general correspondence delivered to you subject to the above conditions, or returned to the Postal Service. Whatever your choice, special mail will be delivered to you, after it is opened in your presence and checked for contraband. You can make your choice by signing part I or part II.

# Part I—General Correspondence to be Returned to the Postal Service
I have read or had read to me the foregoing notice regarding mail. I do not want my general correspondence opened and read. I REQUEST THAT THE BUREAU OF PRISONS RETURN MY GENERAL CORRESPONDENCE TO THE POSTAL SERVICE. I understand that special mail will be delivered to me, after it is opened in my presence and checked for contraband.
(Name)
(Reg. No.)
(Date)

# Part II—General Correspondence to be Opened, Read, and Delivered
I have read or had read to me the foregoing notice regarding mail, I WISH TO RECEIVE MY GENERAL CORRESPONDENCE. I understand that the Bureau of Prisons may open and read my general correspondence if I choose to receive same. I also understand that special mail will be delivered to me, after it is opened in my presence and checked for contraband.
(Name)
(Reg. No.)
(Date)
Inmate (Name), (Reg. No.), refused to sign this form. He (she) was advised by me that the Bureau of Prisons retains the authority to open and read all general correspondence. The inmate was also advised that his (her) refusal to sign this form will be interpreted as an indication that he (she) wishes to receive general correspondence subject to the conditions in part II above.
Staff Member's Signature
Date
(c) Staff shall inform an inmate that letters placed in the U.S. Mail are placed there at the request of the inmate and the inmate must assume responsibility for the contents of each letter. Correspondence containing threats, extortion, etc., may result in prosecution for violation of federal laws. When such material is discovered, the inmate may be subject to disciplinary action, the written material may be copied, and all material may be referred to the appropriate law enforcement agency for prosecution.
(d) The inmate is responsible for filling out the return address completely on envelopes provided for the inmate's use by the institution. If the inmate uses an envelope not provided by the institution, the inmate is responsible for ensuring that the envelope used contains all return address information listed on the envelope provided by the institution.
[50 FR 40109, Oct. 1, 1985, as amended at 64 FR 32171, June 15, 1999]
§ 540.13
Notification of rejections.
When correspondence is rejected, the Warden shall notify the sender in writing of the rejection and the reasons for the rejection. The Warden shall also give notice that the sender may appeal the rejection. The Warden shall also notify an inmate of the rejection of any letter addressed to that inmate, along with the reasons for the rejection and shall notify the inmate of the right to appeal the rejection. The Warden shall refer an appeal to an official other than the one who originally disapproved the correspondence. The Warden shall return rejected correspondence to the sender unless the correspondence includes plans for or discussion of commission of a crime or evidence of a crime, in which case
there is no need to return the correspondence or give notice of the rejection, and the correspondence should be referred to appropriate law enforcement authorities. Also, contraband need not be returned to the sender.
§ 540.14
General correspondence.
(a) Institution staff shall open and inspect all incoming general correspondence. Incoming general correspondence may be read as frequently as deemed necessary to maintain security or monitor a particular problem confronting an inmate.
(b) Except for “special mail,” outgoing mail from a pretrial inmate may not be sealed by the inmate and may be read and inspected by staff.
(c)(1) Outgoing mail from a sentenced inmate in a minimum or low security level institution may be sealed by the inmate and, except as provided for in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section, is sent out unopened and uninspected. Staff may open a sentenced inmate's outgoing general correspondence:
(i) If there is reason to believe it would interfere with the orderly running of the institution, that it would be threatening to the recipient, or that it would facilitate criminal activity;
(ii) If the inmate is on a restricted correspondence list;
(iii) If the correspondence is between inmates (see § 540.17); or
(iv) If the envelope has an incomplete return address.
(2) Except for “special mail,” outgoing mail from a sentenced inmate in a medium or high security level institution, or an administrative institution may not be sealed by the inmate and may be read and inspected by staff.
(d) The Warden may reject correspondence sent by or to an imate if it is determined detrimental to the security, good order, or discipline of the institution, to the protection of the public, or if it might facilitate criminal activity. Correspondence which may be rejected by a Warden includes, but is not limited to, correspondence which contains any of the following:
(1) Matter which is nonmailable under law or postal regulations;
(2) Matter which depicts, describes, or encourages activities which may lead to the use of physical violence or group disruption;
(3) Information of escape plots, of plans to commit illegal activities, or to violate Bureau rules or institution guidelines;
(4) Direction of an inmate's business (See § 541.13, Prohibited Act No. 408). An inmate, unless a pre-trial detainee, may not direct a business while confined.
This does not, however, prohibit correspondence necessary to enable an inmate to protect property and funds that were legitimately the inmate's at the time of commitment. Thus, for example, an inmate may correspond about refinancing an existing mortgage or sign insurance papers, but may not operate a mortgage or insurance business while in the institution.
(5) Threats, extortion, obscenity, or gratuitous profanity;
(6) A code;
(7) Sexually explicit material (for example, personal photographs) which by its nature or content poses a threat to an individual's personal safety or security, or to institution good order; or
(8) Contraband. (See § 500.1 of this chapter. A package received without prior authorization by the Warden is considered to be contraband.)
[50 FR 40109, Oct. 1, 1985, as amended at 56 FR 4159, Feb. 1, 1991; 62 FR 65186, Dec. 10, 1997]
§ 540.15
Restricted general correspondence.
(a) The Warden may place an inmate on restricted general correspondence based on misconduct or as a matter of classification. Determining factors include the inmate's:
(1) Involvement in any of the activities listed in § 540.14(d);
(2) Attempting to solicit funds or items (e.g., samples), or subscribing to a publication without paying for the subscription;
(3) Being a security risk;
(4) Threatening a government official; or
(5) Having committed an offense involving the mail.
(b) The Warden may limit to a reasonable number persons on the approved restricted general correspondence list of an inmate.
(c) The Warden shall use one of the following procedures before placing an inmate on restricted general correspondence.
(1) Where the restriction will be based upon an incident report, procedures must be followed in accordance with inmate disciplinary regulations (part 541, subpart B of this chapter).
(2) Where there is no incident report, the Warden:
(i) Shall advise the inmate in writing of the reasons the inmate is to be placed on restricted general correspondence;
(ii) Shall give the inmate the opportunity to respond to the classification or change in classification; the inmate has the option to respond orally or to submit written information or both; and
(iii) Shall notify the inmate of the decision and the reasons, and shall advise the inmate that the inmate may appeal the decision under the Administrative Remedy Procedure.
(d) When an inmate is placed on restricted general correspondence, the inmate may, except as provided in §§ 540.16 and 540.17:
(1) Correspond with the inmate's spouse, mother, father, children, and siblings, unless the correspondent is involved in any violation of correspondence regulations, or would be a threat to the security or good order of the institution;
(2) Request other persons also to be placed on the approved correspondence list, subject to investigation, evaluation, and approval by the Warden; with prior approval, the inmate may write to a proposed correspondence to obtain a release authorizing an investigation; and
(3) Correspond with former business associates, unless it appears to the Warden that the proposed correspondent would be a threat to the security or good order of the institution, or that the resulting correspondence could reasonably be expected to result in criminal activity. Correspondence with former business associates is limited to social matters.
(e) The Warden may allow an inmate additional correspondence with persons other than those on the inmate's approved mailing list when the correspondence is shown to be necessary and does not require an addition to the mailing list because it is not of an ongoing nature.
§ 540.16
Inmate correspondence while in segregation and holdover status.
(a) The Warden shall permit an inmate in holdover status (i.e., enroute to a designated institution) to have correspondence privileges similar to those of other inmates insofar as practical.
(b) The Warden shall permit an inmate in segregation to have full correspondence privileges unless placed on restricted general correspondence under § 540.15.
§ 540.17
Correspondence between confined inmates.
An inmate may be permitted to correspond with an inmate confined in any other penal or correctional institution if the other inmate is either a member of the immediate family, or is a party or witness in a legal action in which both inmates are involved. Such correspondence may be approved in other exceptional circumstances, with particular regard to the security level of the institution, the nature of the relationship between the two inmates, and whether the inmate has other regular correspondence. The following additional limitations apply:
(a) Such correspondence at institutions of all security levels may always be inspected and read by staff at the sending and receiving institutions (it may not be sealed by the inmate); and
(b)(1) The appropriate unit manager at each institution must approve of the correspondence if both inmates are housed in Federal institutions and both inmates are members of the same immediate family or are a party or witness in a legal action in which both inmates are involved.
(2) The Wardens of both institutions must approve of the correspondence if one of the inmates is housed at a non-Federal institution or if approval is being granted on the basis of exceptional circumstances.
[50 FR 40109, Oct. 1, 1985, as amended at 61 FR 65204, Dec. 18, 1995]
§ 540.18
Special mail.
(a) The Warden shall open incoming special mail only in the presence of the inmate for inspection for physical contraband and the qualification of any enclosures as special mail. The correspondence may not be read or copied if the sender is adequately identified on the envelope, and the front of the envelope is marked “Special Mail—Open only in the presence of the inmate”.
(b) In the absence of either adequate identification or the “special mail” marking indicated in paragraph (a) of this section appearing on the envelope, staff may treat the mail as general correspondence and may open, inspect, and read the mail.
(c)(1) Except as provided for in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, outgoing special mail may be sealed by the inmate and is not subject to inspection.
(2) Special mail shall be screened in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section when the special mail is being sent by an inmate who has been placed on restricted special mail status.
(i) An inmate may be placed on restricted special mail status if the Warden, with the concurrence of the Regional Counsel, documents in writing that the special mail either has posed a threat or may pose a threat of physical harm to the recipient (e.g., the inmate has previously used special mail to threaten physical harm to a recipient).
(ii) The Warden shall notify the inmate in writing of the reason the inmate is being placed on restricted special mail status.
(iii) An inmate on restricted special mail status must present all materials and packaging intended to be sent as special mail to staff for inspection. Staff shall inspect the special mail material and packaging, in the presence of the inmate, for contraband. If the intended recipient of the special mail has so requested, staff may read the special mail for the purpose of verifying that the special mail does not contain a threat of physical harm. Upon completion of the inspection, staff shall return the special mail material to the inmate if the material does not contain contraband, or contain a threat of physical harm to the intended recipient. The inmate must then seal the special mail material in the presence of staff and immediately give the sealed special mail material to the observing staff for delivery. Special mail determined to pose a threat to the intended recipient shall be forwarded to the appropriate law enforcement entity. Staff shall send a copy of the material, minus the contraband, to the intended recipient along with notification that the original of the material was forwarded to the appropriate law enforcement entity.
(iv) The Warden shall review an inmate's restricted special mail status at least once every 180 days. The inmate is to be notified of the results of this review. An inmate may be removed from restricted special mail status if the Warden determines, with the concurrence of the Regional Counsel, that the special mail does not threaten or pose a threat of physical harm to the intended recipient.
(v) An inmate on restricted mail status may seek review of the restriction through the Administrative Remedy Program.
(d) Except for special mail processed in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section, staff shall stamp the following statement directly on the back side of the inmate's outgoing special mail: “The enclosed letter was processed through special mailing procedures for forwarding to you. The letter has neither been opened nor inspected. If the writer raises a question or problem over which this facility has jurisdiction, you may wish to return the material for further information or clarification. If the writer encloses correspondence for forwarding to another addressee, please return the enclosure to the above address.”
[50 FR 40108, Oct. 1, 1985, as amended at 62 FR 65185, Dec. 10, 1997]
§ 540.19
Legal correspondence.
(a) Staff shall mark each envelope of incoming legal mail (mail from courts or attorneys) to show the date and time of receipt, the date and time the letter is delivered to an inmate and opened in the inmate's presence, and the name of the staff member who delivered the letter. The inmate may be asked to sign as receiving the incoming
legal mail. This paragraph applies only if the sender has marked the envelope as specified in § 540.18.
(b) The inmate is responsible for advising any attorney that correspondence will be handled as special mail only if the envelope is marked with the attorney's name and an indication that the person is an attorney, and the front of the envelope is marked “Special Mail—Open only in the presence of the inmate”. Legal mail shall be opened in accordance with special mail procedures (see § 540.18).
(c) Grounds for the limitation or denial of an attorney's correspondence rights or privileges are stated in part 543, subpart B. If such action is taken, the Warden shall give written notice to the attorney and the inmate affected.
(d) In order to send mail to an attorney's assistant or to a legal aid student or assistant, an inmate shall address the mail to the attorney or legal aid supervisor, or the legal organization or firm, to the attention of the student or assistant.
(e) Mail to an inmate from an attorney's assistant or legal aid student or assistant, in order to be identified and treated by staff as special mail, must be properly identified on the envelope as required in paragraph (b) of this section, and must be marked on the front of the envelope as being mail from the attorney or from the legal aid supervisor.
§ 540.20
Inmate correspondence with representatives of the news media.
(a) An inmate may write through “special mail” to representatives of the news media specified by name or title (see § 540.2(b)).
(b) The inmate may not receive compensation or anything of value for correspondence with the news media. The inmate may not act as reporter.
(c) Representatives of the news media may initiate correspondence with an inmate. Staff shall open incoming correspondence from representatives of the media and inspect for contraband, for its qualification as media correspondence, and for content which is likely to promote either illegal activity or conduct contrary to Bureau regulations.
[50 FR 40109, Oct. 1, 1985, as amended at 75 FR 21164, Apr. 23, 2010]
§ 540.21
Payment of postage.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (d), (e), (f), and (i) of this section, postage charges are the responsibility of the inmate. The Warden shall ensure that the inmate commissary has postage stamps available for purchase by inmates.
(b) Writing paper and envelopes are provided at no cost to the inmate. Inmates who use their own envelopes must place a return address on the envelope (see § 540.12(d)).
(c) Inmate organizations will purchase their own postage.
(d) An inmate who has neither funds nor sufficient postage and who wishes to mail legal mail (includes courts and attorneys) or Administrative Remedy forms will be provided the postage stamps for such mailing. To prevent abuses of this provision, the Warden may impose restrictions on the free legal and administrative remedy mailings.
(e) When requested by an inmate who has neither funds nor sufficient postage, and upon verification of this status by staff, the Warden shall provide the postage stamps for mailing a reasonable number of letters at government expense to enable the inmate to maintain community ties. To prevent abuses of this provision, the Warden may impose restrictions on the free mailings.
(f) Mailing at government expense is also allowed for necessary correspondence in verified emergency situations for inmates with neither funds nor sufficient postage.
(g) Inmates must sign for all stamps issued to them by institution staff.
(h) Mail received with postage due is not ordinarily accepted by the Bureau of Prisons.
(i) Holdovers and pre-trial commitments will be provided a reasonable number of stamps for the mailing of letters at government expense.
(j) Inmates may not be permitted to receive stamps or stamped items (e.g., envelopes embossed with stamps, postal cards with postage affixed) other
than by issuance from the institution or by purchase from commissary.
[50 FR 40109, Oct. 1, 1985, as amended at 64 FR 32171, June 15, 1999]
§ 540.22
Special postal services.
(a) An inmate, at no cost to the government, may send correspondence by registered, certified, or insured mail, and may request a return receipt.
(b) An inmate may insure outgoing personal correspondence (e.g., a package containing the inmate's hobbycrafts) by completing the appropriate form and applying sufficient postage.
(1) In the event of loss or damage, any claim relative to this matter is made to the U.S. Postal Service, either by the inmate or the recipient. The U.S. Postal Service will only indemnify a piece of insured mail for the actual value of an item, regardless of declared value.
(2) Inmate packages forwarded as a result of institution administration are considered official mail, except as otherwise specified (for example, hobbycraft articles mailed out of the institution). Official mail is not insured. If such an item is subsequently lost or damaged in the mail process the inmate may file a tort claim with the Bureau of Prisons (see part 543, subpart C of this chapter).
(c) Certified mail is sent first class at the inmate's expense.
(d) An inmate may not be provided such services as express mail, COD, private carriers, or stamp collecting while confined.
§ 540.23
Inmate funds received through the mails.
Except as provided for in part 506 of this chapter, funds enclosed in inmate correspondence are to be rejected. Deposits intended for the inmate's commissary account must be mailed directly to the centralized commissary account (see 28 CFR part 506).
[69 FR 40317, July 2, 2004]
§ 540.24
Returned mail.
Staff shall open and inspect for contraband all undelivered mail returned to an institution by the Post Office before returning it to the inmate. The purpose of this inspection is to determine if the content originated with the inmate sender identified on the letter or package; to prevent the transmission of material, substances, and property which an inmate is not permitted to possess in the institution; and to determine that the mail was not opened or tampered with before its return to the institution. Any remailing is at the inmate's expense. Any returned mail qualifying as “special mail” is opened and inspected for contraband in the inmate's presence.
§ 540.25
Change of address and forwarding of mail for inmates.
(a) Staff shall make available to an inmate who is being released or transferred appropriate Bureau of Prisons and U.S. Postal Service forms for change of address.
(b) Inmates are responsible for informing their correspondents of a change of address.
(c) Postage for mailing change of address cards is paid by the inmate.
(d) Except as provided in paragraphs (e) through (g) of this section, all mail received for a released or transferred inmate will be returned to the U.S. Postal Service for disposition in accordance with U.S. Postal Service regulations.
(e) Staff shall use all means practicable to forward special mail.
(f) Staff shall forward inmate general correspondence to the new address for a period of 30 days.
(g) Staff shall permit an inmate released temporarily on writ to elect either to have general correspondence held at the institution for a period not to exceed 30 days, or returned to the U.S. Postal Service for disposition.
(1) If the inmate refuses to make this election, staff at the institution shall document this refusal, and any reasons, in the inmate's central file. Staff shall return to the U.S. Postal Service all general correspondence received for such as inmate after the inmate's departure.
(2) If the inmate does not return from writ within the time indicated, staff shall return to the U.S. Postal Service all general correspondence being held for that inmate for disposition in accordance with postal regulations.
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Visiting Regulations

# Source:
45 FR 44232, June 30, 1980, unless otherwise noted.
§ 540.40
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau of Prisons encourages visiting by family, friends, and community groups to maintain the morale of the inmate and to develop closer relationships between the inmate and family members or others in the community. The Warden shall develop procedures consistent with this rule to permit inmate visiting. The Warden may restrict inmate visiting when necessary to ensure the security and good order of the institution.
[45 FR 44232, June 30, 1980, as amended at 58 FR 39095, July 21, 1993]
§ 540.41
Visiting facilities.
The Warden shall have the visiting room arranged so as to provide adequate supervision, adapted to the degree of security required by the type of institution. The Warden shall ensure that the visiting area is as comfortable and pleasant as practicable, and appropriately furnished and arranged. If space is available, the Warden shall have a portion of the visiting room equipped and set up to provide facilities for the children of visitors.
(a) Institutions of minimum and low security levels may permit visits beyond the security perimeter, but always under supervision of staff.
(b) Institutions of medium and high security levels, and administrative institutions may establish outdoor visiting, but it will always be inside the security perimeter and always under supervision of staff.
[45 FR 44232, June 30, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 26127, July 18, 1986; 56 FR 4159, Feb. 1, 1991]
§ 540.42
Visiting times.
(a) Each Warden shall establish a visiting schedule for the institution. At a minimum, the Warden shall establish visiting hours at the institution on Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays. The restriction of visiting to these days may be a hardship for some families and arrangements for other suitable hours shall be made to the extent practicable. Where staff resources permit, the Warden may establish evening visiting hours.
(b) Consistent with available resources, such as space limitations and staff availability, and with concerns of institution security, the Warden may limit the visiting period. With respect to weekend visits, for example, some or all inmates and visitors may be limited to visiting on Saturday or on Sunday, but not on both days, in order to accommodate the volume of visitors. There is no requirement that every visitor has the opportunity to visit on both days of the weekend, nor that every inmate has the opportunity to have visits on both days of the weekend.
[51 FR 26127, July 18, 1986]
§ 540.43
Frequency of visits and number of visitors.
The Warden shall allow each inmate a minimum of four hours visiting time per month. The Warden may limit the length or frequency of visits only to avoid chronic overcrowding. The Warden may establish a guideline for the maximum number of persons who may visit an inmate at one time, to prevent overcrowding in the visiting room or unusual difficulty in supervising a visit. Exceptions may be made to any local guideline when indicated by special circumstances, such as distance the visitor must travel, frequency of the inmate's visits, or health problems of the inmate or visitor.
§ 540.44
Regular visitors.
An inmate desiring to have regular visitors must submit a list of proposed visitors to the designated staff. See § 540.45 for qualification as special visitor. Staff are to compile a visiting list for each inmate after suitable investigation in accordance with § 540.51(b) of this part. The list may include:
(a)
Members of the immediate family.
These persons include mother, father, step-parents, foster parents, brothers and sisters, spouse, and children. These individuals are placed on the visiting list, absent strong circumstances which preclude visiting.
(b)
Other relatives.
These persons include grandparents, uncles, aunts, in-laws, and cousins. They may be placed on the approved list if the inmate wishes to have visits from them regularly and if there exists no reason to exclude them.
(c)
Friends and associates.
The visiting privilege ordinarily will be extended to friends and associates having an established relationship with the inmate prior to confinement, unless such visits could reasonably create a threat to the security and good order of the institution. Exceptions to the prior relationship rule may be made, particularly for inmates without other visitors, when it is shown that the proposed visitor is reliable and poses no threat to the security or good order of the institution.
(d)
Persons with prior criminal convictions.
The existence of a criminal conviction alone does not preclude visits. Staff shall give consideration to the nature, extent and recentness of convictions, as weighed against the security considerations of the institution. Specific approval of the Warden may be required before such visits take place.
(e)
Children under sixteen.
Children under the age of 16 may not visit unless accompanied by a responsible adult. Children shall be kept under supervision of a responsible adult or a children's program. Exceptions in unusual circumstances may be made by special approval of the Warden.
[45 FR 44232, June 30, 1980, as amended at 56 FR 4159, Feb. 1, 1991; 68 FR 10658, Mar. 6, 2003]
§ 540.45
Qualification as special visitor.
Persons in the categories listed in this section may qualify as special visitors rather than as regular visitors. Visits by special visitors ordinarily are for a specific purpose and ordinarily are not of a recurring nature. Except as specified, the conditions of visiting for special visitors are the same as for regular visitors.
(a)
Business visitor.
Except for pretrial inmates, an inmate is not permitted to engage actively in a business or profession. An inmate who was engaged in a business or profession prior to commitment is expected to assign authority for the operation of such business or profession to a person in the community. Pretrial inmates may be allowed special visitors for the purpose of protecting the pretrial inmate's business interests. In those instances where an inmate has turned over the operation of a business or profession to another person, there still may be an occasion where a decision must be made which will substantially affect the assets or prospects of the business. The Warden accordingly may permit a special business visit in such cases. The Warden may waive the requirement for the existence of an established relationship prior to confinement for visitors approved under this paragraph.
(b)
Consular visitors.
When it has been determined that an inmate is a citizen of a foreign country, the Warden must permit the consular representative of that country to visit on matters of legitimate business. The Warden may not withhold this privilege even though the inmate is in disciplinary status. The requirement for the existence of an established relationship prior to confinement does not apply to consular visitors.
(c)
Representatives of community groups.
The Warden may approve visits on a recurring basis to representatives from community groups (for example, civic, volunteer, or religious organizations) who are acting in their official capacity. These visits may be for the purpose of meeting with an individual inmate or with a group of inmates. The requirement for the existence of an established relationship prior to confinement for visitors does not apply to representatives of community groups.
(d)
Clergy, former or prospective employers, sponsors, and parole advisors.
Visitors in this category ordinarily provide assistance in release planning, counseling, and discussion of family problems. The requirement for the existence of an established relationship prior to confinement for visitors does not apply to visitors in this category.
[68 FR 10658, Mar. 6, 2003]
§ 540.46
Attorney visits.
Requirements for attorney visits are governed by the provisions on inmate legal activities (see §§ 543.12 through
543.16 of this chapter). Provisions pertinent to attorney visits for pretrial inmates are contained in § 551.117 of this chapter.
[68 FR 10658, Mar. 6, 2003]
§ 540.47
Media visits.
Requirements for media visits are governed by the provisions on contact with news media (see subpart E of this part). A media representative who wishes to visit outside his or her official duties, however, must qualify as a regular visitor or, if applicable, a special visitor.
[68 FR 10658, Mar. 6, 2003]
§ 540.48
[Reserved]
§ 540.49
Transportation assistance.
The Warden shall ensure that directions for transportation to and from the institution are provided for the approved visitor (see § 540.51(b)(4)). Directions for transportation to and from the institution and pay phone service, with commercial transportation phone numbers posted, are also to be made available at the institution to assist visitors.
§ 540.50
Visits to inmates not in regular population status.
(a)
Admission and holdover status.
The Warden may limit to the immediate family of the inmate visits during the admission-orientation period or for holdovers where there is neither a visiting list from a transferring institution nor other verification of proposed visitors.
(b)
Hospital patients.
(1) When visitors request to see an inmate who is hospitalized in the institution, the Chief Medical Officer (or, in his absence, the Health Services Administrator), in consultation with the Captain, shall determine whether a visit may occur, and if so, whether it may be held in the hospital.
(2) Visits to inmates hospitalized in the community may be restricted to only the immediate family and are subject to the general visiting policy of that hospital.
(c)
Detention or segregation status.
Ordinarily, an inmate retains visiting privileges while in detention or segregation status. Visiting may be restricted or disallowed, however, when an inmate, while in detention or segregation status, is charged with, or has been found to have committed, a prohibited act having to do with visiting guidelines or has otherwise acted in a way that would reasonably indicate that he or she would be a threat to the orderliness or security of the visiting room. Loss of an inmate's visiting privileges for other reasons may not occur unless the inmate is provided a hearing before the Discipline Hearing Officer (DHO) in accordance with the provisions of § 541.17 of this chapter, following those provisions which are appropriate to the circumstances, which results in a finding by the DHO that the inmate committed a prohibited act and that there is a lack of other appropriate sanctions or that imposition of an appropriate sanction previously has been ineffective. The Unit Discipline Committee (UDC) may not impose a loss of visiting privileges for inmates in detention or segregation status. The provisions of this paragraph (c) do not interrupt or delay a loss of visiting sanction imposed by the UDC or DHO prior to the inmate's placement in detention or segregation status.
[45 FR 44232, June 30, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 26128, July 18, 1986; 58 FR 39095, July 21, 1993]
§ 540.51
Procedures.
(a)
Responsibility.
The Warden of the institution shall establish and enforce local visiting guidelines in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Bureau of Prisons.
(b)
Preparation of the list of visitors.
(1) Staff shall ask each inmate to submit during the admission-orientation process a list of proposed visitors. After appropriate investigation, staff shall compile a visiting list for each inmate and distribute that list to the inmate and the visiting room officer.
(2) Staff may request background information from potential visitors who are not members of the inmate's immediate family, before placing them on the inmate's approved visiting list. When little or no information is available on the inmate's potential visitor, visiting may be denied, pending receipt
and review of necessary information, including information which is available on the inmate and/or the inmate's offense, including alleged offenses.
(3) If a background investigation is necessary before approving a visitor, the inmate shall be held responsible for mailing a release authorization form to the proposed visitor. That form must be signed and returned to staff by the proposed visitor prior to any further action regarding visiting. Upon receipt of the authorization form, staff may then forward a questionnaire, along with the release authorization, to the appropriate law enforcement or crime information agency.
(4) Staff shall notify the inmate of each approval or disapproval of a requested person for the visiting list. Upon approval of each visitor, staff shall provide the inmate a copy of the visiting guidelines and with directions for transportation to and from the institution. The inmate is responsible for notifying the visitor of the approval or disapproval to visit and is expected to provide the approved visitors with a copy of the visiting guidelines and directions for transportation to and from the institution. The visiting guidelines shall include specific directions for reaching the institution and shall cite 18 U.S.C. 1791, which provides a penalty of imprisonment for not more than twenty years, a fine, or both for providing or attempting to provide to an inmate anything whatsoever without the knowledge and consent of the Warden.
(5) An inmate's visiting list may be amended at any time in accordance with the procedures of this section.
(c)
Verification of special visitor credentials.
Staff must verify the qualifications of special visitors. Staff may request background information and official assignment documentation from the potential visitor for this purpose.
(d)
Identification of visitors.
Staff shall verify the identity of each visitor (through driver's license, photo identification, etc.) prior to admission of the visitor to the institution.
(e)
Notification to visitors.
Staff shall make available to all visitors written guidelines for visiting the institution. Staff shall have the visitor sign a statement acknowledging that the guidelines were provided and declaring that the visitor does not have any articles in his/her possession which the visitor knows to be a threat to the security of the institution. Staff may deny the visiting privilege to a visitor who refuses to make such a declaration.
(f)
Searching visitors.
Staff may require a visitor to submit to a personal search, including a search of any items of personal property, as a condition of allowing or continuing a visit.
(g)
Record of visitors.
The Warden shall maintain a record of visitors to each inmate. The visitor's signature may be required on that record and shall be required on at least one visiting log or record maintained by the institution.
(h)
Supervision of visits.
Staff shall supervise each inmate visit to prevent the passage of contraband and to ensure the security and good order of the institution. The Warden may establish procedures to enable monitoring of the visiting area, including restrooms located within the visiting area. The Warden must provide notice to both visitors and inmates of the potential for monitoring the visiting area. The Warden may monitor a visitor restroom within the visiting area when there is reasonable suspicion that a visitor and/or an inmate is engaged, or attempting or about to engage, in criminal behavior or other prohibited behavior.
(1) The visiting room officer shall ensure that all visits are conducted in a quiet, orderly, and dignified manner. The visiting room officer may terminate visits that are not conducted in the appropriate manner. See 28 CFR 541.12, item 5, for description of an inmate's responsibility during visits.
(2) Staff shall permit limited physical contact, such as handshaking, embracing, and kissing, between an inmate and a visitor, unless there is clear and convincing evidence that such contact would jeopardize the safety or security of the institution. Where contact visiting is provided, handshaking, embracing, and kissing are ordinarily permitted within the bounds of good taste and only at the beginning and at the end of the visit. The staff may
limit physical contact to minimize opportunity for the introduction of contraband and to maintain the orderly operation of the visiting area.
(3) The visiting room officer may not accept articles or gifts of any kind for an inmate, except packages which have had prior approval by the Warden or a designated staff member.
(4) The visiting room officer shall be aware of any articles passed between the inmate and the visitor. If there is any reasonable basis to believe that any item is being passed which constitutes contraband or is otherwise in violation of the law or Bureau regulations, the visiting room officer may examine the item.
[45 FR 44232, June 30, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 26128, July 18, 1986; 58 FR 39095, July 21, 1993; 64 FR 25795, May 12, 1999; 68 FR 10658, Mar. 6, 2003; 69 FR 40317, July 2, 2004]
§ 540.52
Penalty for violation of visiting regulations.
Any act or effort to violate the visiting guidelines of an institution may result in disciplinary action against the inmate, which may include the denial of future visits, possibly over an extended period of time. Moreover, criminal prosecution may be initiated against the visitor, the inmate, or both, in the case of criminal violations.

# Subpart E—Contact With News Media

# Source:
44 FR 38247, June 29, 1979, unless otherwise noted.
§ 540.60
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau of Prisons recognizes the desirability of establishing a policy that affords the public information about its operations via the news media. Representatives of the news media (see § 540.2) may visit institutions for the purpose of preparing reports about the institution, programs, and activities. It is not the intent of this rule to provide publicity for an inmate or special privileges for the news media, but rather to insure a better informed public. The Bureau of Prisons also has a responsibility to protect the privacy and other rights of inmates and members of the staff. Therefore, an interview in an institution must be regulated to insure the orderly and safe operation of the institution.
§ 540.61
Authorization.
(a) A news media representative who desires to make a visit or conduct an interview at an institution must make application in writing to the Warden, indicating that he or she is familiar with the rules and regulations of the institution and agrees to comply with them.
(b) As a condition of authorizing interviews and making facilities available to conduct an interview, the news media representative shall recognize a professional responsibility to make reasonable attempts to verify any allegations regarding an inmate, staff member or institution.
(c) A representative of the news media is requested to provide the Bureau of Prisons an opportunity to respond to any allegation, which might be published or broadcast prior to distribution.
(d) A representative of the news media shall collect information only from the primary source. A representative of the news media may not obtain and use personal information from one inmate about another inmate who refuses to be interviewed.
(e) The Warden may be contacted concerning discussions or comments regarding applicability of any rule or order.
(f) Failure to adhere to the standards of conduct set forth by this rule for the news media representative constitutes grounds for denying that news media representative, or the news organization which he or she represents, permission to conduct an interview.
(g) Any questions as to the meaning or application of this subpart are resolved by the Director of the Bureau of Prisons.
§ 540.62
Institutional visits.
(a) A media representative shall make advance appointments for visits.
(b) When media representatives visit the institutions, photographs of programs and activities may be taken, and media representatives may meet with
groups of inmates engaged in authorized programs and activities. An inmate has the right not to be photographed and not to have his or her voice recorded by the media. A visiting representative of the media is required to obtain written permission from an inmate before photographing or recording the voice of an inmate participating in authorized programs and activities.
(c) The Warden may suspend all media visits during an institutional emergency and for a reasonable time after the emergency.
(d) An inmate currently confined in an institution may not be employed or act as a reporter.
(e) Interviews by reporters and others not included in § 540.2 may be permitted only by special arrangement and with approval of the Warden.
[44 FR 38247, June 29, 1979, as amended at 75 FR 21164, Apr. 23, 2010]
§ 540.63
Personal interviews.
(a) An inmate may not receive compensation or anything of value for interviews with the news media.
(b) Either an inmate or a representative of the news media may initiate a request for a personal interview at an institution.
(c) Visits by the news media to conduct personal interviews are subject to the same conditions stated in § 540.62. A media representative shall make a request for personal interview within a reasonable time prior to the personal interview.
(d) Staff shall notify an inmate of each interview request, and shall, as a prerequisite, obtain from the inmate written consent for the interview prior to the interview taking place. The written consent or denial becomes part of the inmate's central file.
(e) As a prerequisite to granting the interview, an inmate must authorize the institutional staff to respond to comments made in the interview and to release information to the news media relative to the inmate's comments.
(f) The Warden shall normally approve or disapprove an interview request within 24 to 48 hours of the request.
(g) The Warden shall document any disapproval. A request for interview may be denied for any of the following reasons.
(1) The news media representative, or the news organization which he or she represents, does not agree to the conditions established by this subpart or has, in the past, failed to abide by the required conditions.
(2) The inmate is physically or mentally unable to participate. This must be supported by a medical officer's statement (a psychologist may be used to verify mental incapacity) to be placed in the inmate's record, substantiating the reason for disapproval.
(3) The inmate is a juvenile (under age 18) and written consent has not been obtained from the inmate's parent or guardian. If the juvenile inmate's parents or guardians are not known or their addresses are not known, the Warden of the institution shall notify the representative of the news media of the inmate's status as a juvenile, and shall then consider the request.
(4) The interview, in the opinion of the Warden, would endanger the health or safety of the interviewer, or would probably cause serious unrest or disturb the good order of the institution.
(5) The inmate is involved in a pending court action and the court having jurisdiction has issued an order forbidding such interviews.
(6) In the case of unconvicted persons (including competency commitments under 18 U.S.C. 4244 and 4246) held in federal institutions, interviews are not authorized until there is clearance with the court having jurisdiction, ordinarily through the U.S. Attorney's Office.
(7) The inmate is a “protection” case and revelation of his or her whereabouts would endanger the inmate's safety.
(h) Interviews are normally held in the institution visiting room during normal weekday business hours. The Warden may:
(1) Determine that another location is more suitable for conducting the interview;
(2) Limit interview time for the entire institution if the Warden determines that the interviews are imposing
a serious drain on staff or use of the facilities;
(3) Limit to one one-hour interview per month for an inmate in segregation, restricted, holdover, control unit, or hospital status if required by special security, custodial, or supervisory needs; and
(4) Limit the amount of audio, video, and film equipment or number of media personnel entering the institution if the Warden determines that the requested equipment or personnel would create a disruption within the institution.
(i) In conjunction with the personal interview, if the member of the media wishes to tour the institution, he or she must comply with the provisions of § 540.61.
(j) Interviews are not subject to auditory supervision.
§ 540.64
Press pools.
(a) The Warden may establish a press pool whenever he or she determines that the frequency of requests for interviews and visits reaches a volume that warrants limitations.
(b) Whenever the Warden establishes a press pool, the Warden shall notify all news media representatives who have requested interviews or visits that have not been conducted. Selected representatives are admitted to the institution to conduct the interviews under the specific guidelines established by the Warden.
(c) All members of the press pool are selected by their peers and consist of not more than one representative from each of the following groups:
(1) The national and international news services;
(2) The television and radio networks and outlets;
(3) The news magazines and newspapers; and
(4) All media in the local community where the institution is located. If no interest has been expressed by one or more of these groups, no representative from such group need be selected.
(d) All news material generated by such a press pool is made available to all media without right of first publication or broadcast.
§ 540.65
Release of information.
(a) The Warden shall promptly make announcements stating the facts of unusual, newsworthy incidents to local news media. Examples are deaths, inside escapes, and institution emergencies.
(b) The Warden shall provide information about an inmate that is a matter of public record to the representatives of the media upon request. The information is limited to the inmate's:
(1) Name;
(2) Register number;
(3) Place of incarceration;
(4) Age;
(5) Race;
(6) Conviction and sentencing data: this includes the offense(s) for which convicted, the court where convicted, the date of sentencing, the length of sentence(s), the amount of good time earned, the parole eligibility date and parole release (presumptive or effective) date, and the date of expiration of sentence, and includes previous Federal, state, and local convictions;
(7) Past movement via transfers or writs;
(8) General institutional assignments.
(c) Information in paragraphs (b)(1) through (8) of this section may not be released if confidential for protection cases.
(d) A request for additional information concerning an inmate by a representative of the news media is referred to the Public Information Officer, Central Office, Washington, DC.
(e) The Public Information Officer, Central Office, Washington, DC shall release all announcements related to:
(1) Bureau of Prisons policy;
(2) Changes in an institutional mission;
(3) Type of inmate population; or
(4) Changes in executive personnel.

# Subpart F—Incoming Publications
§ 540.70
Purpose and scope.
Except when precluded by statute (see § 540.72), the Bureau of Prisons permits an inmate to subscribe to or to receive publications without prior approval and has established procedures
to determine if an incoming publication is detrimental to the security, discipline, or good order of the institution or if it might facilitate criminal activity. The term publication, as used in this subpart, means a book, booklet, pamphlet, or similar document, or a single issue of a magazine, periodical, newsletter, newspaper, plus such other materials addressed to a specific inmate such as advertising brochures, flyers, and catalogs.
[61 FR 57568, Nov. 6, 1996]
§ 540.71
Procedures.
(a)(1) At all Bureau institutions, an inmate may receive hardcover publications and newspaper only from the publisher, from a book club, or from a bookstore.
(2) At medium security, high security, and administrative institutions, an inmate may receive softcover publications (for example, paperback books, newspaper, clippings, magazines, and other similar items) only from the publisher, from a book club, or from a bookstore.
(3) At minimum security and low security institutions, an inmate any receive softcover publications (other than newspapers) from any source.
(4) The Unit Manager may make an exception to the provisions of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section of the publication is no longer available from the publisher, book club, or bookstore. The Unit Manager shall require that the inmate provide written documentation that the publication is no longer available from these sources. The approval or disapproval of any request for an exception is to be documented, in writing, on an Authorization to Receive a Package form which will be used to secure the item.
(b) The Warden may reject a publication only if it is determined detrimental to the security, good order, or discipline of the institution or if it might facilitate criminal activity. The Warden may not reject a publication solely because its content is religious, philosophical, political, social or sexual, or because its content is unpopular or repugnant. Publications which may be rejected by a Warden include but are not limited to publications which meet one of the following criteria:
(1) It depicts or describes procedures for the construction or use of weapons, ammunition, bombs or incendiary devices;
(2) It depicts, encourages, or describes methods of escape from correctional facilities, or contains blueprints, drawings or similar descriptions of Bureau of Prisons institutions;
(3) It depicts or describes procedures for the brewing of alcoholic beverages, or the manufacture of drugs;
(4) It is written in code;
(5) It depicts, describes or encourages activities which may lead to the use of physical violence or group disruption;
(6) It encourages or instructs in the commission of criminal activity;
(7) It is sexually explicit material which by its nature or content poses a threat to the security, good order, or discipline of the institution, or facilitates criminal activity.
(c) The Warden may not establish an excluded list of publications. This means the Warden shall review the individual publication prior to the rejection of that publication. Rejection of several issues of a subscription publication is not sufficient reason to reject the subscription publication in its entirety.
(d) Where a publication is found unacceptable, the Warden shall promptly advise the inmate in writing of the decision and the reasons for it. The notice must contain reference to the specific article(s) or material(s) considered objectionable. The Warden shall permit the inmate an opportunity to review this material for purposes of filing an appeal under the Administrative Remedy Program unless such review may provide the inmate with information of a nature which is deemed to pose a threat or detriment to the security, good order or discipline of the institution or to encourage or instruct in criminal activity.
(e) The Warden shall provide the publisher or sender of an unacceptable publication a copy of the rejection letter. The Warden shall advise the publisher or sender that he may obtain an independent review of the rejection by writing to the Regional Director within 20 days of receipt of the rejection letter. The Warden shall return the rejected publication to the publisher or
sender of the material unless the inmate indicates an intent to file an appeal under the Administrative Remedy Program, in which case the Warden shall retain the rejected material at the institution for review. In case of appeal, if the rejection is sustained, the rejected publication shall be returned when appeal or legal use is completed.
(f) The Warden may set limits locally (for fire, sanitation or housekeeping reasons) on the number or volume of publications an inmate may receive or retain in his quarters. The Warden may authorize an inmate additional storage space for storage of legal materials in accordance with the Bureau of Prisons procedures on personal property of inmates.
[44 FR 38260, June 29, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 55130, Dec. 7, 1982; 50 FR 411, Jan. 3, 1985; 61 FR 57568, Nov. 6, 1996; 67 FR 77164, Dec. 17, 2002]
§ 540.72
Statutory restrictions requiring return of commercially published information or material which is sexually explicit or features nudity.
(a) When commercially published information or material may not be distributed by staff or made available to inmates due to statutory restrictions (for example, a prohibition on the use of appropriated funds to distribute or make available to inmates information or material which is sexually explicit or features nudity), the Warden or designee shall return the information or material to the publisher or sender. The Warden or designee shall advise the publisher or sender that an independent review of the decision may be obtained by writing to the Regional Director within 20 days of receipt of the notification letter. Staff shall provide the inmate with written notice of the action.
(b)
Definitions.
For the purpose of this section:
(1)
Commercially published information or material
means any book, booklet, pamphlet, magazine, periodical, newsletter, photograph or other pictorial depiction, or similar document, including stationery and greeting cards, published by any individual, organization, company, or corporation which is distributed or made available through any means or media for a commercial purpose. This definition includes any portion extracted, photocopied, or clipped from such items.
(2)
Nudity
means a pictorial depiction where genitalia or female breasts are exposed.
(3)
Features
means the publication contains depictions of nudity or sexually explicit conduct on a routine or regular basis or promotes itself based upon such depictions in the case of individual one-time issues. Publications containing nudity illustrative of medical, educational, or anthropological content may be excluded from this definition.
(4)
Sexually explicit
means a pictorial depiction of actual or simulated sexual acts including sexual intercourse, oral sex, or masturbation.
[61 FR 57569, Nov. 6, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 77427, Dec. 18, 2002]
Subparts G-H [Reserved]

# Subpart I—Telephone Regulations for Inmates

# Source:
44 FR 38249, June 29, 1979, unless otherwise noted.
§ 540.100
Purpose and scope.
(a) The Bureau of Prisons extends telephone privileges to inmates as part of its overall correctional management. Telephone privileges are a supplemental means of maintaining community and family ties that will contribute to an inmate's personal development. An inmate may request to call a person of his or her choice outside the institution on a telephone provided for that purpose. However, limitations and conditions may be imposed upon an inmate's telephone privileges to ensure that these are consistent with other aspects of the Bureau's correctional management responsibilities. In addition to the procedures set forth in this subpart, inmate telephone use is subject to those limitations which the Warden determines are necessary to ensure the security or good order, including discipline, of the institution or to protect the public. Restrictions on
inmate telephone use may also be imposed as a disciplinary sanction (see 28 CFR part 541).
(b) Except as provided in this rule, the Warden shall permit an inmate who has not been restricted from telephone use as the result of a specific institutional disciplinary sanction to make at least one telephone call each month.
[59 FR 15824, Apr. 4, 1994, as amended at 61 FR 90, Jan. 2, 1996]
§ 540.101
Procedures.
(a)
Telephone list preparation.
An inmate telephone call shall ordinarily be made to a number identified on the inmate's official telephone list. This list ordinarily may contain up to 30 numbers. The Associate Warden may authorize the placement of additional numbers on an inmate's telephone list based on the inmate's individual situation, e.g., size of family.
(1) During the admission and orientation process, an inmate who chooses to have telephone privileges shall prepare a proposed telephone list. At the time of submission, the inmate shall acknowledge that, to the best of the inmate's knowledge, the person or persons on the list are agreeable to receiving the inmate's telephone call and that the proposed calls are to be made for a purpose allowable under Bureau policy or institution guidelines.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, telephone numbers requested by an inmate will ordinarily be placed on the inmate's telephone list. When an inmate requests the placement of numbers for persons other than for immediate family or those persons already approved for the inmate's visiting list, staff ordinarily will notify those persons in writing that their numbers have been placed on the inmate's telephone list. The notice advises the recipient that the recipient's number will be removed from the list if the recipient makes a written request to the institution, or upon the written request of the inmate, or as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(3) The Associate Warden may deny placement of a telephone number on an inmate's telephone list if the Associate Warden determines that there is a threat to institution security or good order, or a threat to the public. Any disapproval must be documented in writing to both the inmate and the proposed recipient. As with concerns about any correctional issue, including any portion of these telephone regulations, an inmate may appeal the denial through the administrative remedy procedure (see 28 CFR part 542). The Associate Warden will notify the denied recipient that he or she may appeal the denial by writing to the Warden within 15 days of the receipt of the denial.
(b)
Telephone list update.
Each Warden shall establish procedures to allow an inmate the opportunity to submit telephone list changes on at least a quarterly basis.
(c)
Telephone access codes.
An inmate may not possess another inmate's telephone access code number. An inmate may not give his or her telephone access code number to another inmate, and is to report a compromised telephone access code number immediately to unit staff.
(d)
Placement and duration of telephone call.
The placement and duration of any telephone call is subject to availability of inmate funds. Ordinarily, an inmate who has sufficient funds is allowed at least three minutes for a telephone call. The Warden may limit the maximum length of telephone calling based on the situation at that institution (e.g., institution population or usage demand).
(e)
Exception.
The Warden may allow the placement of collect calls for good cause. Examples of good cause include, but are not limited to, inmates who are new arrivals to the institution, including new commitments and transfers; inmates confined at Metropolitan Correctional Centers, Metropolitan Detention Centers, or Federal Detention Centers; pretrial inmates; inmates in holdover status; inmates who are without funds (see § 540.105(b)); and in cases of family emergencies.
[59 FR 15824, Apr. 4, 1994]
§ 540.102
Monitoring of inmate telephone calls.
The Warden shall establish procedures that enable monitoring of telephone conversations on any telephone located within the institution, said
monitoring to be done to preserve the security and orderly management of the institution and to protect the public. The Warden must provide notice to the inmate of the potential for monitoring. Staff may not monitor an inmate's properly placed call to an attorney. The Warden shall notify an inmate of the proper procedures to have an unmonitored telephone conversation with an attorney.
[48 FR 24622, June 1, 1983. Redesignated at 59 FR 15824, Apr. 4, 1994]
§ 540.103
Inmate telephone calls to attorneys.
The Warden may not apply frequency limitations on inmate telephone calls to attorneys when the inmate demonstrates that communication with attorneys by correspondence, visiting, or normal telephone use is not adequate.
[44 FR 38249, June 29, 1979. Redesignated at 59 FR 15824, Apr. 4, 1994]
§ 540.104
Responsibility for inmate misuse of telephones.
The inmate is responsible for any misuse of the telephone. The Warden shall refer incidents of unlawful inmate telephone use to law enforcement authorities. The Warden shall advise an inmate that violation of the institution's telephone regulations may result in institutional disciplinary action (See part 541, subpart B).
[44 FR 38249, June 29, 1979. Redesignated at 59 FR 15824, Apr. 4, 1994]
§ 540.105
Expenses of inmate telephone use.
(a) An inmate is responsible for the expenses of inmate telephone use. Such expenses may include a fee for replacement of an inmate's telephone access code that is used in an institution which has implemented debit billing for inmate telephone calls. Each inmate is responsible for staying aware of his or her account balance through the automated process provided by the system. Third party billing and electronic transfer of a call to a third party are prohibited.
(b) The Warden shall provide at least one collect call each month for an inmate who is without funds. An inmate without funds is defined as an inmate who has not had a trust fund account balance of $6.00 for the past 30 days. The Warden may increase the number of collect calls based upon local institution conditions (e.g., institution population, staff resources, and usage demand). To prevent abuses of this provision (e.g., inmate shows a pattern of depleting his or her commissary funds prior to placing collect calls), the Warden may impose restrictions on the provisions of this paragraph (b).
(c) [Reserved]
(d) The Warden may direct the government to bear the expense of inmate telephone use or allow a call to be made collect under compelling circumstances such as when an inmate has lost contact with his family or has a family emergency.
[59 FR 15824, Apr. 4, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 240, Jan. 3, 1995; 61 FR 90, Jan. 2, 1996]
§ 540.106
Video visiting and telephone calls under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act.
(a) During the “covered emergency period” as defined by the CARES Act with respect to the coronavirus disease (COVID-19), when the Attorney General determines that emergency conditions will materially affect the functioning of the Bureau of Prisons (Bureau), the Bureau may, on a case-by-case basis, authorize inmates to conduct visitation through video teleconferencing and telephonically, free of charge to inmates, notwithstanding provisions in part 540 to the contrary.
(b) Access to video and telephone visitation will only occur consistent with logistical and security provisions in this subpart to ensure Bureau safety, security and good order and protection of the public.
(c) Access to video and telephone visitation under this section may be modified, terminated, or reinstated during the emergency period based upon a determination by the Director, as designee of the Attorney General, regarding the level of material effect that emergency conditions continue to have on Bureau functions.
(d) Misuse of Bureau systems or technology may result in communication restrictions and/or disciplinary action under 28 CFR part 541.
(e) Inmates may challenge the Bureau's decisions under this section through the Bureau's administrative remedy program under 28 CFR part 542.
[85 FR 37336, June 22, 2020]

# Subpart J—Communications Management Housing Units

# Source:
80 FR 3177, Jan. 22, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 540.200
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose of this subpart.
This subpart defines the Federal Bureau of Prisons' (Bureau) authority to operate, and designate inmates to, Communications Management Housing Units (CMUs) within Bureau facilities.
(b)
CMU.
A CMU is a general population housing unit where inmates ordinarily reside, eat, and participate in all educational, recreational, religious, visiting, unit management, and work programming, within the confines of the CMU. Additionally, CMUs may contain a range of cells dedicated to segregated housing of inmates in administrative detention or disciplinary segregation status.
(c)
Purpose of CMUs.
The purpose of CMUs is to provide an inmate housing unit environment that enables staff to more effectively monitor communication between inmates in CMUs and persons in the community. The ability to monitor such communication is necessary to ensure the safety, security, and orderly operation of correctional facilities, and protection of the public. The volume, frequency, and methods, of CMU inmate contact with persons in the community may be limited as necessary to achieve the goal of total monitoring, consistent with this subpart.
(d)
Application.
Any inmate (as defined in 28 CFR 500.1(c)) meeting criteria prescribed by this subpart may be designated to a CMU.
(e)
Relationship to other regulations.
The regulations in this subpart supersede and control to the extent they conflict with, are inconsistent with, or impose greater limitations than the regulations in this part, or any other regulations in this chapter, except 28 CFR part 501.
§ 540.201
Designation criteria.
Inmates may be designated to a CMU if evidence of the following criteria exists:
(a) The inmate's current offense(s) of conviction, or offense conduct, included association, communication, or involvement, related to international or domestic terrorism;
(b) The inmate's current offense(s) of conviction, offense conduct, or activity while incarcerated, indicates a substantial likelihood that the inmate will encourage, coordinate, facilitate, or otherwise act in furtherance of illegal activity through communication with persons in the community;
(c) The inmate has attempted, or indicates a substantial likelihood that the inmate will contact victims of the inmate's current offense(s) of conviction;
(d) The inmate committed prohibited activity related to misuse or abuse of approved communication methods while incarcerated; or
(e) There is any other substantiated/credible evidence of a potential threat to the safe, secure, and orderly operation of prison facilities, or protection of the public, as a result of the inmate's communication with persons in the community.
§ 540.202
Designation procedures.
Inmates may be designated to CMUs only according to the following procedures:
(a)
Initial consideration.
Initial consideration of inmates for CMU designation begins when the Bureau becomes aware of information relevant to the criteria described in § 540.201.
(b)
Assistant Director authority.
The Bureau's Assistant Director, Correctional Programs Division, has authority to approve CMU designations. The Assistant Director's decision must be based on a review of the evidence, and a conclusion that the inmate's designation to a CMU is necessary to ensure the safety, security, and orderly operation of correctional facilities, or protection of the public.
(c)
Written notice.
Upon arrival at the designated CMU, inmates will receive written notice from the facility's Warden explaining that:
(1) Designation to a CMU allows greater Bureau staff management of communication with persons in the community through complete monitoring of telephone use, written correspondence, and visiting. The volume, frequency, and methods of CMU inmate contact with persons in the community may be limited as necessary to achieve the goal of total monitoring, consistent with this subpart;
(2) General conditions of confinement in the CMU may also be limited as necessary to provide greater management of communications;
(3) Designation to the CMU is not punitive and, by itself, has no effect on the length of the inmate's incarceration. Inmates in CMUs continue to earn sentence credit in accordance with the law and Bureau policy;
(4) Designation to the CMU follows the Assistant Director's decision that such placement is necessary for the safe, secure, and orderly operation of Bureau institutions, or protection of the public. The inmate will be provided an explanation of the decision in sufficient detail, unless the Assistant Director determines that providing specific information would jeopardize the safety, security, and orderly operation of correctional facilities, or protection of the public;
(5) Continued designation to the CMU will be reviewed regularly by the inmate's Unit Team under circumstances providing the inmate notice and an opportunity to be heard, in accordance with the Bureau's policy on Classification and Program Review of Inmates;
(6) The inmate may challenge the CMU designation decision, and any aspect of confinement therein, through the Bureau's administrative remedy program.
§ 540.203
Written correspondence limitations.
(a)
General correspondence.
General written correspondence as defined by this part, may be limited to six pieces of paper (not larger than 8.5 x 11 inches), double-sided writing permitted, once per calendar week, to and from a single recipient at the discretion of the Warden, except as stated in (c) below. This correspondence is subject to staff inspection for contraband and for content.
(b)
Special mail.
(1) Special mail, as defined in this part, is limited to privileged communication with the inmate's attorney.
(2) All such correspondence is subject to staff inspection in the inmate's presence for contraband and to ensure its qualification as privileged communication with the inmate's attorney. Inmates may not seal such outgoing mail before giving it to staff for processing. After inspection for contraband, the inmate must then seal the approved outgoing mail material in the presence of staff and immediately give the sealed material to the observing staff for further processing.
(c)
Frequency and volume limitations.
Unless the quantity to be processed becomes unreasonable or the inmate abuses or violates these regulations, there is no frequency or volume limitation on written correspondence with the following entities:
(1) U.S. courts;
(2) Federal judges;
(3) U.S. Attorney's Offices;
(4) Members of U.S. Congress;
(5) The Bureau of Prisons;
(6) Other federal law enforcement entities; or
(7) The inmate's attorney (privileged communications only).
(d) Electronic messaging may be limited to two messages, per calendar week, to and from a single recipient at the discretion of the Warden.
§ 540.204
Telephone communication limitations.
(a)
Monitored telephone communication
may be limited to immediate family members only. The frequency and duration of telephone communication may also be limited to three connected calls per calendar month, lasting no longer than 15 minutes. The Warden may require such communication to be in English, or translated by an approved interpreter.
(b)
Unmonitored telephone communication
is limited to privileged communication with the inmate's attorney. Unmonitored privileged telephone communication with the inmate's attorney
is permitted as necessary in furtherance of active litigation, after establishing that communication with the verified attorney by confidential correspondence or visiting, or monitored telephone use, is not adequate due to an urgent or impending deadline.
§ 540.205
Visiting limitations.
(a)
Regular visiting
may be limited to immediate family members. The frequency and duration of regular visiting may also be limited to four one-hour visits each calendar month. The number of visitors permitted during any visit is within the Warden's discretion. Such visits must occur through no-contact visiting facilities.
(1) Regular visits may be simultaneously monitored and recorded, both visually and auditorily, either in person or electronically.
(2) The Warden may require such visits to be conducted in English, or simultaneously translated by an approved interpreter.
(b)
Attorney visiting
is limited to attorney-client privileged communication as provided in this part. These visits may be visually, but not auditorily, monitored. Regulations and policies previously established under 28 CFR part 543 are applicable.
(c) For convicted inmates (as defined in 28 CFR part 551), regulations and policies previously established under 28 CFR part 543 are applicable.
Pt. 541

# PART 541—INMATE DISCIPLINE AND SPECIAL HOUSING UNITS

# Subpart A—Inmate Discipline Program
Sec.
541.1
Purpose.
541.2
Application.
541.3
Prohibited acts and available sanctions.
541.4
Loss of good conduct sentence credit as a mandatory sanction.
541.5
Discipline process.
541.6
Mentally ill inmates.
541.7
Unit Discipline Committee (UDC) review.
541.8
Discipline Hearing Officer (DHO) hearing.

# Subpart B—Special Housing Units
541.20
Purpose.
541.21
Special Housing Units (SHUs).
541.22
Status when placed in the SHU.
541.23
Administrative detention status.
541.24
Disciplinary segregation status.
541.25
Notice received when placed in the SHU.
541.26
Review of placement in the SHU.
541.27
Protection case—placement in Administrative Detention Status.
541.28
Protection case-review of placement in the SHU.
541.29
Staff verification of need for protection.
541.30
Lack of verification of need for protection.
541.31
Conditions of confinement in the SHU.
541.32
Medical and mental health care in the SHU.
541.33
Release from the SHU.
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Control Unit Programs
541.40
Purpose and scope.
541.41
Institutional referral.
541.42
Designation of Hearing Administrator.
541.43
Hearing procedure.
541.44
Decision of the Hearing Administrator.
541.45
Executive Panel review and appeal.
541.46
Programs and services.
541.47
Admission to control unit.
541.48
Search of control unit inmates.
541.49
Review of control unit placement.
541.50
Release from a control unit.

# Subpart E—Procedures for Handling of HIV Positive Inmates Who Pose Danger to Others
541.60
Purpose and scope.
541.61
Standard for placement in controlled housing status.
541.62
Referral for placement.
541.63
Hearing procedure.
541.64
Decision of the Hearing Administrator.
541.65
Regional Director review and appeal.
541.66
Programs and services.
541.67
Review of controlled housing status.
541.68
Release from controlled housing status.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 3621, 3622, 3624, 4001, 4042, 4081, 4082 (Repealed in part as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 4161—4166 (Repealed as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 5006—5024 (Repealed October 12, 1984 as to offenses committed after that date), 5039; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510.

# Subpart A—Inmate Discipline Program

# Source:
75 FR 76267, Dec. 8, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 541.1
Purpose.
This subpart describes the Federal Bureau of Prisons' (Bureau) inmate discipline program. This program helps ensure the safety, security, and orderly operation of correctional facilities, and the protection of the public, by allowing Bureau staff to impose sanctions on inmates who commit prohibited acts. Sanctions will not be imposed in a capricious or retaliatory manner. The Bureau's inmate discipline program is authorized by 18 U.S.C. 4042(a)(3).
§ 541.2
Application.
This program applies to sentenced and unsentenced inmates in Bureau custody. It also applies to sentenced and unsentenced inmates designated to any prison, institution, or facility in which persons are held in custody by direction of, or under an agreement with, the Bureau of Prisons.
§ 541.3
Prohibited acts and available sanctions.
(a)
Prohibited acts.
The list of prohibited acts are divided into four separate categories based on severity: Greatest; High; Moderate; and Low. We describe the prohibited acts in Table 1—Prohibited Acts and Available Sanctions. Aiding, attempting, abetting, or making plans to commit any of the prohibited acts is treated the same as committing the act itself.
(b)
Available sanctions.
The list of available sanctions for committing prohibited acts is listed in Table 1—Prohibited Acts and Available Sanctions. If you commit repetitive prohibited acts, we can impose increased sanctions, as listed in Table 2—Additional Available Sanctions for Repeated Prohibited Acts Within the Same Severity Level.
Table 1—Prohibited Acts and Available Sanctions
Greatest Severity Level Prohibited Acts
100
Killing.
101
Assaulting any person, or an armed assault on the institution's secure perimeter (a charge for assaulting any person at this level is to be used only when serious physical injury has been attempted or accomplished).
102
Escape from escort; escape from any secure or non-secure institution, including community confinement; escape from unescorted community program or activity; escape from outside a secure institution.
103
Setting a fire (charged with this act in this category only when found to pose a threat to life or a threat of serious bodily harm or in furtherance of a prohibited act of Greatest Severity,
e.g.,
in furtherance of a riot or escape; otherwise the charge is properly classified Code 218, or 329).
104
Possession, manufacture, or introduction of a gun, firearm, weapon, sharpened instrument, knife, dangerous chemical, explosive, ammunition, or any instrument used as a weapon.
105
Rioting.
106
Encouraging others to riot.
107
Taking hostage(s).
108
Possession, manufacture, introduction, or loss of a hazardous tool (tools most likely to be used in an escape or escape attempt or to serve as weapons capable of doing serious bodily harm to others; or those hazardous to institutional security or personal safety;
e.g.,
hack-saw blade, body armor, maps, handmade rope, or other escape paraphernalia, portable telephone, pager, or other electronic device).
109
(Not to be used).
110
Refusing to provide a urine sample; refusing to breathe into a Breathalyzer; refusing to take part in other drug-abuse testing.
111
Introduction or making of any narcotics, marijuana, drugs, alcohol, intoxicants, or related paraphernalia, not prescribed for the individual by the medical staff.
112
Use of any narcotics, marijuana, drugs, alcohol, intoxicants, or related paraphernalia, not prescribed for the individual by the medical staff.
113
Possession of any narcotics, marijuana, drugs, alcohol, intoxicants, or related paraphernalia, not prescribed for the individual by the medical staff.
114
Sexual assault of any person, involving non-consensual touching by force or threat of force.
115
Destroying and/or disposing of any item during a search or attempt to search.
196
Use of the mail for an illegal purpose or to commit or further a Greatest category prohibited act.
197
Use of the telephone for an illegal purpose or to commit or further a Greatest category prohibited act.
198
Interfering with a staff member in the performance of duties most like another Greatest severity prohibited act. This charge is to be used only when another charge of Greatest severity is not accurate. The offending conduct must be charged as “most like” one of the listed Greatest severity prohibited acts.
199
Conduct which disrupts or interferes with the security or orderly running of the institution or the Bureau of Prisons most like another Greatest severity prohibited act. This charge is to be used only when another charge of Greatest severity is not accurate. The offending conduct must be charged as “most like” one of the listed Greatest severity prohibited acts.
Available Sanctions for Greatest Severity Level Prohibited Acts
A.
Recommend parole date rescission or retardation.
B.
Forfeit and/or withhold earned statutory good time or non-vested good conduct time (up to 100%) and/or terminate or disallow extra good time (an extra good time or good conduct time sanction may not be suspended).
B.1.
Disallow ordinarily between 50% and 75% (27-41 days) of good conduct time credit available for year (a good conduct time sanction may not be suspended).
B.2
Forfeit up to 41 days of earned First Step Act (FSA) Time Credits (
see
28 CFR part 523, subpart E) for each prohibited act committed.
C.
Disciplinary segregation (up to 12 months).
D.
Make monetary restitution.
E.
Monetary fine.
F.
Loss of privileges (
e.g.,
visiting, telephone, commissary, movies, recreation).
G.
Change housing (quarters).
H.
Remove from program and/or group activity.
I.
Loss of job.
J.
Impound inmate's personal property.
K.
Confiscate contraband.
L.
Restrict to quarters.
M.
Extra duty.
High Severity Level Prohibited Acts
200
Escape from a work detail, non-secure institution, or other non-secure confinement, including community confinement, with subsequent voluntary return to Bureau of Prisons custody within four hours.
201
Fighting with another person.
202
(Not to be used).
203
Threatening another with bodily harm or any other offense.
204
Extortion; blackmail; protection; demanding or receiving money or anything of value in return for protection against others, to avoid bodily harm, or under threat of informing.
205
Engaging in sexual acts.
206
Making sexual proposals or threats to another.
207
Wearing a disguise or a mask.
208
Possession of any unauthorized locking device, or lock pick, or tampering with or blocking any lock device (includes keys), or destroying, altering, interfering with, improperly using, or damaging any security device, mechanism, or procedure.
209
Adulteration of any food or drink.
210
(Not to be used).
211
Possessing any officer's or staff clothing.
212
Engaging in or encouraging a group demonstration.
213
Encouraging others to refuse to work, or to participate in a work stoppage.
214
(Not to be used).
215
(Not to be used).
216
Giving or offering an official or staff member a bribe, or anything of value.
217
Giving money to, or receiving money from, any person for the purpose of introducing contraband or any other illegal or prohibited purpose.
218
Destroying, altering, or damaging government property, or the property of another person, having a value in excess of $100.00, or destroying, altering, damaging life-safety devices (
e.g.,
fire alarm) regardless of financial value.
219
Stealing; theft (including data obtained through the unauthorized use of a communications device, or through unauthorized access to disks, tapes, or computer printouts or other automated equipment on which data is stored).
220
Demonstrating, practicing, or using martial arts, boxing (except for use of a punching bag), wrestling, or other forms of physical encounter, or military exercises or drill (except for drill authorized by staff).
221
Being in an unauthorized area with a person of the opposite sex without staff permission.
222
(Not to be used).
223
(Not to be used).
224
Assaulting any person (a charge at this level is used when less serious physical injury or contact has been attempted or accomplished by an inmate).
225
Stalking another person through repeated behavior which harasses, alarms, or annoys the person, after having been previously warned to stop such conduct.
226
Possession of stolen property.
227
Refusing to participate in a required physical test or examination unrelated to testing for drug abuse (
e.g.,
DNA, HIV, tuberculosis).
228
Tattooing or self-mutilation.
229
Sexual assault of any person, involving non-consensual touching without force or threat of force.
231
Requesting, demanding, pressuring, or otherwise intentionally creating a situation, which causes an inmate to produce or display his/her own court documents for any unauthorized purpose to another inmate.
296
Use of the mail for abuses other than criminal activity which circumvent mail monitoring procedures (
e.g.,
use of the mail to commit or further a High category prohibited act, special mail abuse; writing letters in code; directing others to send, sending, or receiving a letter or mail through unauthorized means; sending mail for other inmates without authorization; sending correspondence to a specific address with directions or intent to have the correspondence sent to an unauthorized person; and using a fictitious return address in an attempt to send or receive unauthorized correspondence).
297
Use of the telephone for abuses other than illegal activity which circumvent the ability of staff to monitor frequency of telephone use, content of the call, or the number called; or to commit or further a High category prohibited act.
298
Interfering with a staff member in the performance of duties most like another High severity prohibited act. This charge is to be used only when another charge of High severity is not accurate. The offending conduct must be charged as “most like” one of the listed High severity prohibited acts.
299
Conduct which disrupts or interferes with the security or orderly running of the institution or the Bureau of Prisons most like another High severity prohibited act. This charge is to be used only when another charge of High severity is not accurate. The offending conduct must be charged as “most like” one of the listed High severity prohibited acts.
Available Sanctions for High Severity Level Prohibited Acts
A.
Recommend parole date rescission or retardation.
B.
Forfeit and/or withhold earned statutory good time or non-vested good conduct time up to 50% or up to 60 days, whichever is less, and/or terminate or disallow extra good time (an extra good time or good conduct time sanction may not be suspended).
B.1
Disallow ordinarily between 25% and 50% (14-27 days) of good conduct time credit available for year (a good conduct time sanction may not be suspended).
B.2
Forfeit up to 27 days of earned FSA Time Credits for each prohibited act committed.
C.
Disciplinary segregation (up to 6 months).
D.
Make monetary restitution.
E.
Monetary fine.
F.
Loss of privileges (
e.g.,
visiting, telephone, commissary, movies, recreation).
G.
Change housing (quarters).
H.
Remove from program and/or group activity.
I.
Loss of job.
J.
Impound inmate's personal property.
K.
Confiscate contraband.
L.
Restrict to quarters.
M.
Extra duty.
Moderate Severity Level Prohibited Acts
300
Indecent Exposure.
301
(Not to be used).
302
Misuse of authorized medication.
303
Possession of money or currency, unless specifically authorized, or in excess of the amount authorized.
304
Loaning of property or anything of value for profit or increased return.
305
Possession of anything not authorized for retention or receipt by the inmate, and not issued to him through regular channels.
306
Refusing to work or to accept a program assignment.
307
Refusing to obey an order of any staff member (may be categorized and charged in terms of greater severity, according to the nature of the order being disobeyed,
e.g.,
failure to obey an order which furthers a riot would be charged as 105, Rioting; refusing to obey an order which furthers a fight would be charged as 201, Fighting; refusing to provide a urine sample when ordered as part of a drug-abuse test would be charged as 110).
308
Violating a condition of a furlough.
309
Violating a condition of a community program.
310
Unexcused absence from work or any program assignment.
311
Failing to perform work as instructed by the supervisor.
312
Insolence towards a staff member.
313
Lying or providing a false statement to a staff member.
314
Counterfeiting, forging, or unauthorized reproduction of any document, article of identification, money, security, or official paper (may be categorized in terms of greater severity according to the nature of the item being reproduced,
e.g.,
counterfeiting release papers to effect escape, Code 102).
315
Participating in an unauthorized meeting or gathering.
316
Being in an unauthorized area without staff authorization.
317
Failure to follow safety or sanitation regulations (including safety regulations, chemical instructions, tools, MSDS sheets, OSHA standards).
318
Using any equipment or machinery without staff authorization.
319
Using any equipment or machinery contrary to instructions or posted safety standards.
320
Failing to stand count.
321
Interfering with the taking of count.
322
(Not to be used).
323
(Not to be used).
324
Gambling.
325
Preparing or conducting a gambling pool.
326
Possession of gambling paraphernalia.
327
Unauthorized contacts with the public.
328
Giving money or anything of value to, or accepting money or anything of value from, another inmate or any other person without staff authorization.
329
Destroying, altering, or damaging government property, or the property of another person, having a value of $100.00 or less.
330
Being unsanitary or untidy; failing to keep one's person or quarters in accordance with posted standards.
331
Possession, manufacture, introduction, or loss of a non-hazardous tool, equipment, supplies, or other non-hazardous contraband (tools not likely to be used in an escape or escape attempt, or to serve as a weapon capable of doing serious bodily harm to others, or not hazardous to institutional security or personal safety) (other non-hazardous contraband includes such items as food, cosmetics, cleaning supplies, smoking apparatus and tobacco in any form where prohibited, and unauthorized nutritional/dietary supplements).
332
Smoking where prohibited.
333
Fraudulent or deceptive completion of a skills test (
e.g.,
cheating on a GED, or other educational or vocational skills test).
334
Conducting a business; conducting or directing an investment transaction without staff authorization.
335
Communicating gang affiliation; participating in gang related activities; possession of paraphernalia indicating gang affiliation.
336
Circulating a petition.
396
Use of the mail for abuses other than criminal activity which do not circumvent mail monitoring; or use of the mail to commit or further a Moderate category prohibited act.
397
Use of the telephone for abuses other than illegal activity which do not circumvent the ability of staff to monitor frequency of telephone use, content of the call, or the number called; or to commit or further a Moderate category prohibited act.
398
Interfering with a staff member in the performance of duties most like another Moderate severity prohibited act. This charge is to be used only when another charge of Moderate severity is not accurate. The offending conduct must be charged as “most like” one of the listed Moderate severity prohibited acts.
399
Conduct which disrupts or interferes with the security or orderly running of the institution or the Bureau of Prisons most like another Moderate severity prohibited act. This charge is to be used only when another charge of Moderate severity is not accurate. The offending conduct must be charged as “most like” one of the listed Moderate severity prohibited acts.
Available Sanctions for Moderate Severity Level Prohibited Acts
A.
Recommend parole date rescission or retardation.
B.
Forfeit and/or withhold earned statutory good time or non-vested good conduct time up to 25% or up to 30 days, whichever is less, and/or terminate or disallow extra good time (an extra good time or good conduct time sanction may not be suspended).
B.1
Disallow ordinarily up to 25% (1-14 days) of good conduct time credit available for year (a good conduct time sanction may not be suspended).
B.2
Forfeit up to 27 days of earned FSA Time Credits for each prohibited act committed.
C.
Disciplinary segregation (up to 3 months).
D.
Make monetary restitution.
E.
Monetary fine.
F.
Loss of privileges (
e.g.,
visiting, telephone, commissary, movies, recreation).
G.
Change housing (quarters).
H.
Remove from program and/or group activity.
I.
Loss of job.
J.
Impound inmate's personal property.
K.
Confiscate contraband.
L.
Restrict to quarters.
M.
Extra duty.
Low Severity Level Prohibited Acts
400
(Not to be used).
401
(Not to be used).
402
Malingering, feigning illness.
403
(Not to be used).
404
Using abusive or obscene language.
405
(Not to be used).
406
(Not to be used).
407
Conduct with a visitor in violation of Bureau regulations.
408
(Not to be used).
409
Unauthorized physical contact (
e.g.,
kissing, embracing).
498
Interfering with a staff member in the performance of duties most like another Low severity prohibited act. This charge is to be used only when another charge of Low severity is not accurate. The offending conduct must be charged as “most like” one of the listed Low severity prohibited acts.
499
Conduct which disrupts or interferes with the security or orderly running of the institution or the Bureau of Prisons most like another Low severity prohibited act. This charge is to be used only when another charge of Low severity is not accurate. The offending conduct must be charged as “most like” one of the listed Low severity prohibited acts.
Available Sanctions for Low Severity Level Prohibited Acts
B.1
Disallow ordinarily up to 12.5% (1-7 days) of good conduct time credit available for year (to be used only where inmate found to have committed a second violation of the same prohibited act within 6 months); Disallow ordinarily up to 25% (1-14 days) of good conduct time credit available for year (to be used only where inmate found to have committed a third violation of the same prohibited act within 6 months) (a good conduct time sanction may not be suspended).
B.2
Forfeit up to 7 days of earned FSA Time Credits (only where the inmate is found to have committed a second violation of the same prohibited act within 6 months; forfeit up to 14 days of FSA Time Credits (only where the inmate is found to have committed a third violation of the same prohibited act within 6 months).
D.
Make monetary restitution.
E.
Monetary fine.
F.
Loss of privileges (
e.g.,
visiting, telephone, commissary, movies, recreation).
G.
Change housing (quarters).
H.
Remove from program and/or group activity.
I.
Loss of job.
J.
Impound inmate's personal property.
K.
Confiscate contraband.
L.
Restrict to quarters.
M.
Extra duty.
Table 2—Additional Available Sanctions for Repeated Prohibited Acts Within the Same Severity Level
Prohibited act severity level
Time period for
prior offense
(same code)
Frequency of
repeated offense
Additional available sanctions
Low Severity (400 level)
6 months
2nd offense
1. Disciplinary segregation (up to 1 month).
2. Forfeit earned SGT or non-vested GCT up to 10% or up to 15 days, whichever is less, and/or terminate or disallow extra good time (EGT) (an EGT sanction may not be suspended).
3rd or more offense
Any available Moderate severity level sanction (300 series).
Moderate Severity (300 level)
12 months
2nd offense
1. Disciplinary segregation (up to 6 months).
2. Forfeit earned SGT or non-vested GCT up to 37
1/2
% or up to 45 days, whichever is less, and/or terminate or disallow EGT (an EGT sanction may not be suspended).
3rd or more offense.
Any available High severity level sanction (200 series).
High Severity (200 level)
18 months
2nd offense
1. Disciplinary segregation (up to 12 months).
2. Forfeit earned SGT or non-vested GCT up to 75% or up to 90 days, whichever is less, and/or terminate or disallow EGT (an EGT sanction may not be suspended).
3rd or more offense
Any available Greatest severity level sanction (100 series).
Greatest Severity (100 level)
24 months
2nd or more offense
Disciplinary Segregation (up to 18 months).
[75 FR 76267, Dec. 8, 2010; 75 FR 81854, Dec. 29, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 66229, Oct. 19, 2020; 87 FR 2719, Jan. 19, 2022]
§ 541.4
Loss of good conduct sentence credit as a mandatory sanction.
(a) You will lose good conduct sentence credit as a mandatory disciplinary sanction if you are in one of the following two groups:
(1)
VCCLEA-violent inmates.
The date of your U.S. Code offense was on or after September 13, 1994, but before April 26, 1996, and you committed a “crime of violence” as defined by the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (VCCLEA); or
(2)
PLRA inmates and DC Code offenders.
The date of your U.S. Code offense was on or after April 26, 1996, and, therefore, under the Prison Litigation Reform Act (PLRA), or the date of your District of Columbia (DC) Code offense was on or after August 5, 2000.
(b) If you are an inmate in one of the above groups and commit a prohibited act, you will lose good conduct sentence credit as a mandatory disciplinary sanction. The amount of good conduct sentence credit you will lose depends on the severity level of the prohibited act(s) committed, as follows:
(1)
Greatest Severity Level Offenses.
You will lose at least 41 days, or 75% of available credit if less than 54 days are available for the prorated period, for each act committed.
(2)
High Severity Level Offenses.
You will lose at least 27 days, or 50% of available credit if less than 54 days are available for the prorated period, for each act committed.
(3)
Moderate Severity Level Offenses.
You will lose at least 14 days, or 25% of available credit if less than 54 days are available for the prorated period, after committing two or more Moderate severity acts during the current year of your good conduct sentence credit availability.
(4)
Low Severity Level Offenses.
You will lose at least 7 days, or 12.5% of available credit if less than 54 days are available for the prorated period, after committing three or more Low severity acts during the current year of your good conduct sentence credit availability.
§ 541.5
Discipline process.
(a)
Incident report.
The discipline process starts when staff witness or
reasonably believe that you committed a prohibited act. A staff member will issue you an incident report describing the incident and the prohibited act(s) you are charged with committing. You will ordinarily receive the incident report within 24 hours of staff becoming aware of your involvement in the incident.
(b)
Investigation.
After you receive an incident report, a Bureau staff member will investigate it.
(1)
Information:
The investigator will specifically inform you:
(A) of the charge(s) against you; and
(B) that you may remain silent at all stages of the discipline process, but that your silence may be used to draw an adverse inference against you at any stage of the process. Your silence alone, however, cannot be the basis for finding you committed the prohibited act(s).
(2)
Statement:
When the investigator asks for your statement, you may give an explanation of the incident, request any witnesses be interviewed, or request that other evidence be obtained and reviewed. However, the staff investigation of the incident report may be suspended before requesting your statement if it is being investigated for possible criminal prosecution.
(3)
Informally resolving the incident report.
The incident report may be informally resolved at any stage of the disciplinary process, except for prohibited acts in the Greatest and High severity levels, or as otherwise required by law or these regulations. If the incident report is informally resolved, it will be removed from your records.
§ 541.6
Mentally ill inmates.
If it appears you are mentally ill at any stage of the discipline process, you will be examined by mental health staff.
(a)
Competency to Participate in Disciplinary Proceedings.
If evidence indicates that you cannot understand the nature of the disciplinary proceedings, or cannot help in your own defense, disciplinary proceedings may be postponed until you are competent to participate. The Unit Disciplinary Committee or Discipline Hearing Officer will make this decision based on evidence, including evidence presented by mental health staff.
(b)
Responsibility for Conduct.
You will not be disciplined for conduct committed when, as the result of a severe mental disease or defect, you were unable to appreciate the nature and quality, or wrongfulness of the act. The UDC or DHO will make this decision based on evidence, including evidence presented by mental health staff.
§ 541.7
Unit Discipline Committee (UDC) review of the incident report.
A Unit Discipline Committee (UDC) will review the incident report once the staff investigation is complete. The UDC's review involves the following:
(a)
Available dispositions.
The UDC will make one of the following decisions after reviewing the incident report:
(1) You committed the prohibited act(s) charged, and/or a similar prohibited act(s) as described in the incident report;
(2) You did not commit the prohibited act(s) charged; or
(3) The incident report will be referred to the Discipline Hearing Officer (DHO) for further review, based on the seriousness of the prohibited act(s) charged.
(4) If you are charged with a Greatest or High severity prohibited act, or are an inmate covered by § 541.4, the UDC will automatically refer the incident report to the DHO for further review.
(b)
UDC members.
The UDC ordinarily consists of two or more staff. UDC members will not be victims, witnesses, investigators, or otherwise significantly involved in the incident.
(c)
Timing.
The UDC will ordinarily review the incident report within five work days after it is issued, not counting the day it was issued, weekends, and holidays. UDC review of the incident report may also be suspended if it is being investigated for possible criminal prosecution.
(d)
Inmate appearance.
You are permitted to appear before the UDC during its review of the incident report, except during UDC deliberations or when your presence would jeopardize institution security, at the UDC's discretion. Also:
(1) You may appear either in person or electronically (for example, by video or telephone conferencing) at the UDC's discretion.
(2) You may waive your appearance before the UDC. If you waive your appearance, the UDC will review the incident report in your absence.
(3) If you escape or are otherwise absent from custody, the UDC will conduct a review in your absence at the institution where you were last confined.
(e)
Evidence.
You are entitled to make a statement and present documentary evidence to the UDC on your own behalf. The UDC will consider all evidence presented during its review. The UDC's decision will be based on at least some facts and, if there is conflicting evidence, on the greater weight of the evidence.
(f)
Sanctions.
If you committed a prohibited act or prohibited acts, the UDC can impose any of the available sanctions in Tables 1 and 2 of § 541.3, except loss of good conduct time credit, FSA Time Credits, disciplinary segregation, or monetary fines.
(g)
Referral to the DHO.
If the UDC refers the incident report to the DHO for further review, the UDC will advise you of your rights at the upcoming DHO hearing, as detailed in § 541.8.
(h)
Written report.
You will receive a written copy of the UDC's decision following its review of the incident report.
(i)
Appeals.
You may appeal the UDC's action(s) through the Administrative Remedy Program, 28 CFR part 542, subpart B.
[75 FR 76267, Dec. 8, 2010; 75 FR 81854, Dec. 29, 2010; 87 FR 2719, Jan. 19, 2022]
§ 541.8
Discipline Hearing Officer (DHO) hearing.
The Discipline Hearing Officer (DHO) will only conduct a hearing on the incident report if referred by the UDC. The DHO's hearing involves the following:
(a)
Available dispositions.
The DHO will make one of the following decisions after a hearing on the incident report:
(1) You committed the prohibited act(s) charged, and/or a similar prohibited act(s) as described in the incident report;
(2) You did not commit the prohibited act(s) charged; or
(3) The incident report will be referred back for further investigation, review, and disposition.
(b)
Discipline Hearing Officer.
The DHO will be an impartial decision maker who was not a victim, witness, investigator, or otherwise significantly involved in the incident.
(c)
Timing.
You will receive written notice of the charge(s) against you at least 24 hours before the DHO's hearing. You may waive this requirement, in which case the DHO's hearing can be conducted sooner.
(d)
Staff Representative.
You are entitled to have a staff representative during the DHO hearing process as follows:
(1)
How to get a staff representative.
You may request the staff representative of your choice, so long as that person was not a victim, witness, investigator, or otherwise significantly involved in the incident. If your request(s) cannot be fulfilled, and you still want a staff representative, the Warden will appoint one. The Warden will also appoint a staff representative if it appears you are unable to adequately represent yourself before the DHO, for example, if you are illiterate or have difficulty understanding the charges against you.
(2)
How the staff representative will help you.
Prior to the DHO's hearing, the staff representative will be available to help you understand the incident report charges and potential consequences. The staff representative may also assist you by speaking with and scheduling witnesses, obtaining written statements, and otherwise helping you prepare evidence for presentation at the DHO's hearing. During the DHO's hearing, you are entitled to have the staff representative appear and assist you in understanding the proceedings. The staff representative can also assist you in presenting evidence during the DHO's hearing.
(3)
How the staff representative may appear.
Your staff representative may appear either in person or electronically (for example, by video or telephone conferencing) at the DHO's discretion. If your staff representative is not available for the scheduled hearing, you may either select another staff
representative, request the hearing be postponed for a reasonable amount of time until your staff representative can appear, or proceed without a staff representative.
(e)
Inmate appearance.
You are permitted to appear before the DHO during the hearing on the incident report as follows:
(1) You may appear either in person or electronically (for example, by video or telephone conferencing), at the DHO's discretion.
(2) Your appearance may be prohibited during DHO deliberations or when your presence would jeopardize institution security, at the DHO's discretion.
(3) You may waive your appearance before the DHO. If you waive your appearance, the DHO hearing will be conducted in your absence.
(4) If you escape or are otherwise absent from custody, the DHO will conduct a hearing in your absence at the institution where you were last confined.
(f)
Evidence and witnesses.
You are entitled to make a statement and present documentary evidence to the DHO on your own behalf. The DHO will consider all evidence presented during the hearing. The DHO's decision will be based on at least some facts and, if there is conflicting evidence, on the greater weight of the evidence. Witnesses may appear at the DHO's hearing as follows:
(1) Witnesses may appear before the DHO either in person or electronically (for example, by video or telephone conferencing) at the DHO's discretion.
(2) The DHO will call witnesses who have information directly relevant to the charge(s) and who are reasonably available. However, the DHO need not call witnesses adverse to you if their testimony is adequately summarized in the incident report or other investigation materials.
(3) You or your staff representative may request witnesses appear at the hearing to testify on your behalf. Your requested witnesses may not appear if, in the DHO's discretion, they are not reasonably available, their presence at the hearing would jeopardize institution security, or they would present repetitive evidence.
(4) If your requested witnesses are unavailable to appear, written statements can be requested by either the DHO or staff representative. The written statements can then be considered during the DHO's hearing.
(5) Only the DHO may directly question witnesses at the DHO's hearing. Any questions by you or your staff representative must be submitted to the DHO, who will present the question to the witness in his/her discretion.
(6) The DHO may consider evidence provided by a confidential informant (CI) that the DHO finds reliable. You will not be informed of the CI's identity. You will be informed of the CI's testimony to the extent it will not jeopardize institution security, at the DHO's discretion.
(g)
Sanctions.
If you committed a prohibited act(s), the DHO can impose any of the available sanctions listed in Tables 1 and 2.
(h)
Written Report.
You will receive a written copy of the DHO's decision following the hearing. The DHO is not required to prepare a verbatim record of the hearing. The DHO's written report will document the following:
(1) Whether you were advised of your rights during the DHO process;
(2) The evidence relied on by the DHO;
(3) The DHO's decision;
(4) The sanction imposed by the DHO; and
(5) The reason(s) for the sanction(s) imposed.
(i)
Appeals.
You may appeal the DHO's action(s) through the Administrative Remedy Program, 28 CFR part 542, subpart B.

# Subpart B—Special Housing Units

# Source:
75 FR 76267, Dec. 8, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 541.20
Purpose.
This subpart describes the Federal Bureau of Prisons' (Bureau) operation of special housing units (SHU) at Bureau institutions. The Bureau's operation of SHUs is authorized by 18 U.S.C. 4042(a)(2) and (3).
§ 541.21
Special Housing Units (SHUs).
Special Housing Units (SHUs) are housing units in Bureau institutions where inmates are securely separated from the general inmate population, and may be housed either alone or with other inmates. Special housing units help ensure the safety, security, and orderly operation of correctional facilities, and protect the public, by providing alternative housing assignments for inmates removed from the general population.
§ 541.22
Status when placed in the SHU.
When placed in the SHU, you are either in administrative detention status or disciplinary segregation status.
(a)
Administrative detention status.
Administrative detention status is an administrative status which removes you from the general population when necessary to ensure the safety, security, and orderly operation of correctional facilities, or protect the public. Administrative detention status is non-punitive, and can occur for a variety of reasons.
(b)
Disciplinary segregation status.
Disciplinary segregation status is a punitive status imposed only by a Discipline Hearing Officer (DHO) as a sanction for committing a prohibited act(s).
§ 541.23
Administrative detention status.
You may be placed in administrative detention status for the following reasons:
(a)
Pending Classification or Reclassification.
You are a new commitment pending classification or under review for Reclassification.
(b)
Holdover Status.
You are in holdover status during transfer to a designated institution or other destination.
(c)
Removal from general population.
Your presence in the general population poses a threat to life, property, self, staff, other inmates, the public, or to the security or orderly running of the institution and:
(1)
Investigation.
You are under investigation or awaiting a hearing for possibly violating a Bureau regulation or criminal law;
(2)
Transfer.
You are pending transfer to another institution or location;
(3)
Protection cases.
You requested, or staff determined you need, administrative detention status for your own protection; or
(4)
Post-disciplinary detention.
You are ending confinement in disciplinary segregation status, and your return to the general population would threaten the safety, security, and orderly operation of a correctional facility, or public safety.
[75 FR 76273, Dec. 8, 2010; 75 FR 81854, Dec. 29, 2010]
§ 541.24
Disciplinary segregation status.
You may be placed in disciplinary segregation status only by the DHO as a disciplinary sanction.
§ 541.25
Notice received when placed in the SHU.
You will be notified of the reason(s) you are placed in the SHU as follows:
(a)
Administrative detention status.
When placed in administrative detention status, you will receive a copy of the administrative detention order, ordinarily within 24 hours, detailing the reason(s) for your placement. However, when placed in administrative detention status pending classification or while in holdover status, you will not receive an administrative detention order.
(b)
Disciplinary segregation status.
When you are to be placed in disciplinary segregation status as a sanction for violating Bureau regulations, you will be informed by the DHO at the end of your discipline hearing.
§ 541.26
Review of placement in the SHU.
Your placement in the SHU will be reviewed by the Segregation Review Official (SRO) as follows:
(a)
Three day review.
Within three work days of your placement in administrative detention status, not counting the day you were admitted, weekends, and holidays, the SRO will review the supporting records. If you are in disciplinary segregation status, this review will not occur.
(b)
Seven day reviews.
Within seven continuous calendar days of your
placement in either administrative detention or disciplinary segregation status, the SRO will formally review your status at a hearing you can attend. Subsequent reviews of your records will be performed in your absence by the SRO every seven continuous calendar days thereafter.
(c)
Thirty day reviews.
After every 30 calendar days of continuous placement in either administrative detention or disciplinary segregation status, the SRO will formally review your status at a hearing you can attend.
(d)
Administrative remedy program.
You can submit a formal grievance challenging your placement in the SHU through the Administrative Remedy Program, 28 CFR part 542, subpart B.
§ 541.27
Protection case—placement in Administrative Detention status.
You may be placed in administrative detention status as a protection case in the following circumstances.
(a)
Victim of inmate assault or threats.
You were the victim of an inmate assault, or are being threatened by other inmates, including threats of harm if you do not act in a certain way, for example, threats of harm unless you engage in sexual activity.
(b)
Inmate informant.
Your safety is threatened because you provided, or are perceived as having provided, information to staff or law enforcement authorities regarding other inmates or persons in the community.
(c)
Inmate refusal to enter general population.
You refuse to enter the general population because of alleged pressures or threats from unidentified inmates, or for no expressed reason.
(d)
Staff concern.
Based on evidence, staff believe your safety may be seriously jeopardized by placement in the general population.
§ 541.28
Protection case—review of placement in the SHU.
(a)
Staff investigation.
Whenever you are placed in the SHU as a protection case, whether requested by you or staff, an investigation will occur to verify the reasons for your placement.
(b)
Hearing.
You will receive a hearing according to the procedural requirements of § 541.26(b) within seven calendar days of your placement. Additionally, if you feel at any time your placement in the SHU as a protection case is unnecessary, you may request a hearing under this section.
(c)
Periodic review.
If you remain in administrative detention status following such a hearing, you will be periodically reviewed as an ordinary administrative detention case under § 541.26.
§ 541.29
Staff verification of need for protection.
If a staff investigation verifies your need for placement in the SHU as a protection case, you may remain in the SHU or be transferred to another institution where your status as a protection case may not be necessary, at the Warden's discretion.
§ 541.30
Lack of verification of need for protection.
If a staff investigation fails to verify your need for placement in the SHU as a protection case, you will be instructed to return to the general population. If you refuse to return to the general population under these circumstances, you may be subject to disciplinary action.
§ 541.31
Conditions of confinement in the SHU.
Your living conditions in the SHU will meet or exceed standards for healthy and humane treatment, including, but not limited to, the following specific conditions:
(a)
Environment.
Your living quarters will be well-ventilated, adequately lighted, appropriately heated, and maintained in a sanitary condition.
(b)
Cell Occupancy.
Your living quarters will ordinarily house only the amount of occupants for which it is designed. The Warden, however, may authorize more occupants so long as adequate standards can be maintained.
(c)
Clothing.
You will receive adequate institution clothing, including footwear, while housed in the SHU. You will be provided necessary opportunities to exchange clothing and/or have it washed.
(d)
Bedding.
You will receive a mattress, blankets, a pillow, and linens for sleeping. You will receive necessary opportunities to exchange linens.
(e)
Food.
You will receive nutritionally adequate meals.
(f)
Personal hygiene.
You will have access to a wash basin and toilet. You will receive personal items necessary to maintain an acceptable level of personal hygiene, for example, toilet tissue, soap, toothbrush and cleanser, shaving utensils,
etc.
You will ordinarily have an opportunity to shower and shave at least three times per week. You will have access to hair care services as necessary.
(g)
Exercise.
You will receive the opportunity to exercise outside your individual quarters at least five hours per week, ordinarily on different days in one-hour periods. You can be denied these exercise periods for a week at a time by order of the Warden if it is determined that your use of exercise privileges threatens safety, security, and orderly operation of a correctional facility, or public safety.
(h)
Personal property.
In either status, your amount of personal property may be limited for reasons of fire safety or sanitation.
(1) In administrative detention status you are ordinarily allowed a reasonable amount of personal property and reasonable access to the commissary.
(2) In disciplinary segregation status your personal property will be impounded, with the exception of limited reading/writing materials, and religious articles. Also, your commissary privileges may be limited.
(i)
Correspondence.
You will receive correspondence privileges according to part 540, subpart B.
(j)
Telephone.
You will receive telephone privileges according to part 540, subpart I.
(k)
Visiting.
You will receive visiting privileges according to part 540, subpart D.
(l)
Legal Activities.
You will receive an opportunity to perform personal legal activities according to part 543, subpart B.
(m)
Staff monitoring.
You will be monitored by staff assigned to the SHU, including program and unit team staff.
(n)
Programming Activities.
In administrative detention status, you will have access to programming activities to the extent safety, security, orderly operation of a correctional facility, or public safety are not jeopardized. In disciplinary segregation status, your participation in programming activities,
e.g.,
educational programs, may be suspended.
(o)
Administrative remedy program.
You can submit a formal grievance challenging any aspect of your confinement in the SHU through the Administrative Remedy Program, 28 CFR part 542, subpart B.
§ 541.32
Medical and mental health care in the SHU.
(a)
Medical Care.
A health services staff member will visit you daily to provide necessary medical care. Emergency medical care is always available.
(b)
Mental Health Care.
After every 30 calendar days of continuous placement in either administrative detention or disciplinary segregation status, mental health staff will examine you, including a personal interview. Emergency mental health care is always available.
§ 541.33
Release from the SHU.
(a)
Administrative detention status.
You will be released from administrative detention status when the reasons for your placement no longer exist.
(b)
Disciplinary segregation status.
You will be released from disciplinary segregation status after satisfying the sanction imposed by the DHO. The SRO may release you earlier if it is determined you no longer require disciplinary segregation status.
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Control Unit Programs

# Source:
49 FR 32991, Aug. 17, 1984, unless otherwise noted.
§ 541.40
Purpose and scope.
(a) In an effort to maintain a safe and orderly environment within its institutions, the Bureau of Prisons operates control unit programs intended to place into a separate unit those inmates who are unable to function in a less restrictive environment without being a threat to others or to the orderly operation of the institution. The Bureau of Prisons provides written criteria for the:
(1) Referral of an inmate for possible placement within a control unit;
(2) Selection of an inmate for placement within a control unit;
(3) Regular review of an inmate while housed in a control unit; and
(4) Release of an inmate from a control unit.
(b) The Bureau of Prisons provides an inmate confined within a control unit the opportunity to participate in programs and activities restricted as necessary to protect the security, good order, or discipline of the unit.
§ 541.41
Institutional referral.
(a) The Warden shall submit a recommendation for referral of an inmate for placement in a control unit to the Regional Director in the region where the inmate is located.
(b) The Warden shall consider the following factors in a recommendation for control unit placement.
(1) Any incident during confinement in which the inmate has caused injury to other persons.
(2) Any incident in which the inmate has expressed threats to the life or well-being of other persons.
(3) Any incident involving possession by the inmate of deadly weapons or dangerous drugs.
(4) Any incident in which the inmate is involved in a disruption of the orderly operation of a prison, jail or other correctional institution.
(5) An escape from a correctional institution.
(6) An escape attempt. Depending on the circumstances, an escape attempt, considered alone or together with an inmate's prior history, may warrant consideration for a control unit placement.
(7) The nature of the offense for which committed. An inmate may not be considered solely on the nature of the crime which resulted in that inmate's incarceration; however, the nature of the crime may be considered in combination with other factor(s) as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(c) The Warden may not refer an inmate for placement in a control unit:
(1) If the inmate shows evidence of significant mental disorder or major physical disabilities as documented in a mental health evaluation or a physical examination;
(2) On the basis that the inmate is a protection case, e.g., a homosexual, an informant, etc., unless the inmate meets other criteria as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 541.42
Designation of Hearing Administrator.
(a) The Regional Director in the region where the inmate is located shall review the institution's recommendation for referral of an inmate for placement in a control unit. If the Regional Director concurs with the recommendation, the Regional Director shall forward a written request, together with the institution's referral material, to the Regional Director of the region where the control unit is located. The Regional Director of the region where the control unit is located shall designate a person in the Regional Office to review the referral material and to conduct a hearing on the appropriateness of an inmate's placement in a control unit.
(b) The Hearing Administrator shall have the following qualifications:
(1) Correctional experience, including institutional work with inmates, processing of inmate disciplinary actions, significant institutional experience in observing and evaluating inmate adjustment and disruptive behavior, and knowledge of the options available in the Bureau of Prisons for dealing with such conduct;
(2) Lack of former personal involvement in an Institution Discipline Committee action involving the particular inmate in incident(s) referred; and
(3) Familiarity with Bureau of Prisons policies and operations, including the criteria for placement of inmates in different institutions and in a control unit.
§ 541.43
Hearing procedure.
(a) The Hearing Administrator shall provide a hearing to an inmate recommended for placement in a control unit. The hearing ordinarily shall take place at the recommending or sending institution.
(b) The hearing shall proceed as follows.
(1) Staff shall provide an inmate with an advance written notice of the hearing and a copy of this rule at least 24 hours prior to the hearing. The notice will advise the inmate of the specific act(s) or other evidence which forms the basis for a recommendation that the inmate be transferred to a control unit, unless such evidence would likely endanger staff or others. If an inmate is illiterate, staff shall explain the notice and this rule to the inmate and document that this explanation has occurred.
(2) The Hearing Administrator shall provide an inmate the service of a full-time staff member to represent the inmate, if the inmate so desires. The Hearing Administrator shall document in the record of the hearing an inmate's request for, or refusal of staff representation. The inmate may select a staff representative from the local institution. If the selected staff member declines or is unavailable, the inmate has the option of selecting another representative or, in the case of an absent staff member, of waiting a reasonable period (determined by the Hearing Administrator) for the staff member's return, or of proceeding without a staff representative. When an inmate is illiterate, the Warden shall provide a staff representative. The staff representative shall be available to assist the inmate and, if the inmate desires, shall contact witnesses and present favorable evidence at the hearing. The Hearing Administrator shall afford the staff representative adequate time to speak with the inmate and to interview available witnesses.
(3) The inmate has the right to be present throughout the hearing, except where institutional security or good order is jeopardized. The Hearing Administrator may conduct a hearing in the absence of the inmate when the inmate refuses to appear. The Hearing Administrator shall document an inmate's refusal to appear, or other reason for non-appearance, in the record of the hearing.
(4) The inmate is entitled to present documentary evidence and to have witnesses appear, provided that calling witnesses would not jeopardize or threaten institutional security or individual safety, and further provided that the witnesses are available at the institution where the hearing is being conducted.
(i) The evidence to be presented must be material and relevant to the issue as to whether the inmate can and would function in a general prison population without being or posing a threat to staff or others or to the orderly operation of the institution. The Hearing Administrator may not consider an attempt to reverse or repeal a prior finding of a disciplinary violation.
(ii) Repetitive witnesses need not be called. Staff who recommend placement in a control unit are not required to appear, provided their recommendation is fully explained in the record. Staff who were involved, in any capacity, in former disciplinary proceedings need not be called as to their involvement in those proceedings, since this hearing is not to go over the factual basis for prior actions which have been decided.
(iii) When a witness is not available within the institution, or not permitted to appear, the inmate may submit a written statement by that witness. The Hearing Administrator shall, upon the inmate's request, postpone any decision following the hearing for a reasonable time to permit the obtaining and forwarding of written statements.
(iv) The Hearing Administrator shall document in the record of the hearing the reasons for declining to permit a witness or to receive documentary evidence.
§ 541.44
Decision of the Hearing Administrator.
(a) At the conclusion of the hearing and following review of all material related to the recommendation for placement of an inmate in a control unit, the Hearing Administrator shall prepare a written decision as to whether this placement is warranted. The Hearing Administrator shall:
(1) Prepare a summary of the hearing and of all information presented upon which the decision is based; and
(2) Indicate the specific reasons for the decision, to include a description of the act, or series of acts, or evidence on which the decision is based.
(b) The Hearing Administrator shall advise the inmate in writing of the decision. The inmate shall receive the information described in paragraph (a) of this section unless it is determined that the release of this information could pose a threat to individual safety, or institutional security, in which case that limited information may be withheld. The Hearing Administrator shall advise the inmate that the decision will be submitted for review of the Executive Panel. The Hearing Administrator shall advise the inmate that, if the inmate so desires, the inmate may submit an appeal of the Hearing Administrator's decision to the Executive Panel. This appeal, with supporting documentation and reasons, must be filed within five working days of the inmate's receipt of the Hearing Administrator's decision.
(c) The Hearing Administrator shall send the decision, whether for or against placement in a control unit, and supporting documentation to the Executive Panel. Ordinarily this is done within 20 working days after conclusion of the hearing. Any reason for extension is to be documented.
§ 541.45
Executive Panel review and appeal.
The Executive Panel is composed of the Regional Director of the region where a control unit is located to which referral is being considered and the Assistant Director, Correctional Programs Division.
(a) The Executive Panel shall review the decision and supporting documentation of the Hearing Administrator and, if submitted, the information contained in an inmate's appeal. The Panel shall accept or reject the Hearing Administrator's decision within 30 working days of its receipt, unless for good cause there is reason for delay, which shall be documented in the record.
(b) The Executive Panel shall provide a copy of its decision to the Warden at the institution to which the inmate is to be transferred, to the inmate, to the referring Warden and region, and to the Hearing Administrator.
(c) An inmate may appeal a decision of the Executive Panel, through the Administrative Remedy Procedure, directly to the Office of General Counsel, Bureau of Prisons, within 30 calendar days of the inmate's receipt of the Executive Panel's decision.
§ 541.46
Programs and services.
The Warden shall provide the following services to a control unit inmate. These services must be provided unless compelling security or safety reasons dictate otherwise. These reasons will be documented and signed by the Warden, indicating the Warden's review and approval.
(a)
Education.
The Warden shall assign a member of the education staff to the control unit on at least a part-time basis to assist in developing an educational program to fulfil each inmate's academic needs. The education staff member is ordinarily a member of the control unit team.
(b)
Work assignments.
Staff may assign inmates to a work assignment, such as range orderly. The manner in which these duties are carried out will reflect the inmate's unit adjustment, and will assist staff in evaluating the inmate.
(c)
Industries (UNICOR).
If an industry program exists in a control unit each inmate participating in this program may earn industrial pay, subject to the regulations of Federal Prison Industries, Inc. (UNICOR). The industry program is supervised by an industry foreman. The control unit team will determine when or if an industry assignment is appropriate for each inmate who submits a request for possible assignment to industries work.
(d)
Legal.
An inmate assigned to a control unit may use that unit's inmate basic law library, upon request and in rotation. Consistent with security considerations, the law library is to include basic legal reference books, and ordinarily a table and chair, typewriter, paper and carbon. Abuse of materials in the inmate law library (for example, a typewriter) may result in a decision by the Warden to limit the use of legal materials. A decision to limit materials due to abuse must be documented in writing and signed by the Warden.
(e)
Recreation.
The recreation program in a control unit shall include the following requirements:
(1) Each inmate shall have the opportunity to receive a minimum of seven hours weekly recreation and exercise out of the cell.
(2) Staff shall provide various games and exercise materials as consistent with security considerations and orderly operation of the unit. Inmates who alter or intentionally damage recreation equipment may be deprived of the use of that equipment in the future.
(f)
Case management services.
The case manager is responsible for all areas of case management. This ordinarily includes preparation of the visiting list, notarizing documents, preparation of various reports, and other case management duties. The case manager is ordinarily a member of the control unit team.
(g)
Counselor services.
The unit counselor ordinarily handles phone call requests, special concerns and requests of inmates, and requests for administrative remedy forms. The unit counselor is also available for consultation and for counseling as recommended in the mental health evaluation (see paragraph (i) of this section—Mental Health Services).
(h)
Medical services.
A member of the medical staff shall visit control unit inmates daily. A physician will visit the unit as the need arises.
(i)
Mental health services.
During the first 30-day period in a control unit, staff shall schedule the control unit inmate for a psychological evaluation conducted by a psychologist. Additional individual evaluations shall occur every 30 days. The psychologist shall perform and/or supervise needed psychological services. Psychiatric services will be provided when necessary. Inmates requiring prescribed psychotropic medication are not ordinarily housed in a control unit.
(j)
Religion.
Staff shall issue religious materials upon request, limited by security consideration and housekeeping rules in the unit. This material may come from an inmate's personal property or from the chaplain's office. The institutional chaplains shall make at least weekly visits to the control unit. While individual prayer and/or worship is allowed in a control unit, religious assemblies or group meetings are not allowed.
(k)
Food service and personal hygiene.
Staff shall provide food services and personal hygiene care consistent with the requirements of the current rule regarding Special Housing Units.
(l)
Correspondence.
Inmates confined in a control unit are provided correspondence privileges in accordance with the Bureau of Prisons' rule on Inmate Correspondence (see 28 CFR part 540).
(m)
Visiting.
Visits for inmates confined in a control unit are conducted in a controlled visiting area, separated from regular visiting facilities. Staff shall allot a minimum of four hours per month visiting time to a control unit inmate. The number of consecutive hours visiting on a particular day may be limited by the number of visitors waiting to visit. All visitors must be on the inmate's approved visiting list.
(n)
Commissary.
Staff shall establish a commissary purchase schedule. The amount of money which control unit inmates spend per month is comparable to the spending limitation for inmates residing in the general population. Staff may limit commissary items to ensure the safety and security of the unit.
(o)
Personal property.
Personal property retained by an inmate in a control unit is to be stored in the space provided. Personal property items shall be limited in number and type to ensure the safety and good order of the unit.
[49 FR 32991, Aug. 17, 1984, as amended at 60 FR 46484, Sept. 6, 1995]
§ 541.47
Admission to control unit.
Staff shall provide an inmate admitted to a control unit with:
(a) Notice of the projected duration of the inmate's confinement in a control unit;
(b) Notice of the type of personal property which is allowable in the unit (items made of glass or metal will not be permitted);
(c) A summary of the guidelines and disciplinary procedures applicable in the unit;
(d) An explanation of the activities in a control unit;
(e) The expectations of the inmate's involvement in control unit activities; and
(f) The criteria for release from the unit, and how those criteria specifically relate to this confinement period in the unit and any specific requirements in the inmate's individual case.
§ 541.48
Search of control unit inmates.
(a) The Warden at an institution housing a control unit may order a digital or simple instrument search for all new admissions to the control unit. The Warden may also order a digital or simple instrument search for any inmate who is returned to the control unit following contact with the public. Authorization for a digital or simple instrument search must be in writing, signed by the Warden, with a copy placed in the inmate central file. The Warden's authority may not be delegated below the level of Acting Warden.
(b) An inmate in a control unit may request in writing that an X-ray be taken in lieu of the digital search discussed in paragraph (a) of this section. The Warden shall approve this request, provided it is determined and stated in writing by the institution's Clinical Director or Acting Clinical Director (may not be further delegated) that the amount of X-ray exposure previously received by the inmate, or anticipated to be given the inmate in the immediate future, does not make the proposed X-ray medically unwise. Staff are to place documentation of the X-ray, and the inmate's signed request for it, in the inmate's central and medical files. The Warden's authority may not be delegated below the level of Acting Warden.
(c) Staff may not conduct a digital or simple instrument search if it is likely to result in physical injury to the inmate. In this situation, the Warden, upon approval of the Regional Director, may authorize the institution physician to order a non-repetitive X-ray for the purpose of determining if contraband is concealed in or on the inmate. The X-ray examination may not be performed if it is determined by the institution physician that such an examination is likely to result in serious or lasting medical injury or harm to the inmate. Staff are to place documentation of the X-ray examination in the inmate's central file and medical file. The authority of the Warden and Regional Director may not be delegated below the level of Acting Warden and Acting Regional Director respectively. If neither a digital or simple instrument search, nor an X-ray examination may be used, the inmate is to be placed in a dry cell until sufficient time has passed to allow excretion.
(d) Staff shall solicit the inmate's written consent prior to conducting a digital or simple instrument search, or, as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, an X-ray examination. However, the inmate's consent is not required.
[50 FR 25662, June 20, 1985, as amended at 60 FR 46484, Sept. 6, 1995]
§ 541.49
Review of control unit placement.
(a) Unit staff shall evaluate informally and daily an inmate's adjustment within the control unit. Once every 30 days, the control unit team, comprised of the control unit manager and other members designated by the Warden (ordinarily to include the officer-in-charge or lieutenant, case manager, and education staff member assigned to the unit), shall meet with an inmate in the control unit. The inmate is required to attend the team meeting in order to be eligible for the previous month's stay in the control unit to be credited towards the projected duration of confinement in that unit. The unit team shall make an assessment of the inmate's progress within the unit and may make a recommendation as to readiness for release after considering the inmate's:
(1) Unit status;
(2) Adjustment; and
(3) Readiness for release from the unit. (See § 541.50(a))
(b) The Warden shall serve as the review authority at the institutional level for unit team actions.
(c) An inmate may appeal the Warden's decision to the Executive Panel within five working days of receipt of that decision. The inmate will receive a response to this appeal at the inmate's next appearance before the Executive Panel.
(d) At least once every 60 to 90 days, the Executive Panel shall review the status of an inmate in a control unit to determine the inmate's readiness for release from the Unit. The Executive Panel shall consider those factors specified in § 541.50(a), along with any recommendations by the unit team and Warden.
The decision of the Executive Panel is communicated to the inmate. Ordinarily, the inmate is interviewed in person at this review. If the inmate refuses to appear for this review, or if there is other reason for not having an in-person review, this will be documented.
(e) An inmate may appeal a decision of the Executive Panel, through the Administrative Remedy Procedure, directly to the Office of General Counsel, Bureau of Prisons within 30 calendar days from the date of the Executive Panel's response.
[49 FR 32991, Aug. 17, 1984, as amended at 60 FR 46484, Sept. 6, 1995]
§ 541.50
Release from a control unit.
(a) Only the Executive Panel may release an inmate from a control unit. The following factors are considered in the evaluation of an inmate's readiness for release from a control unit:
(1) Relationship with other inmates and staff members, which demonstrates that the inmate is able to function in a less restrictive environment without posing a threat to others or to the orderly operation of the institution;
(2) Involvement in work and recreational activities and assignments;
(3) Adherence to institution guidelines and Bureau of Prisons rules and policy;
(4) Personal grooming and cleanliness; and
(5) Quarters sanitation.
(b) An inmate released from a control unit may be returned:
(1) To the institution from which the inmate was originally transferred;
(2) To another federal or non-federal institution; or
(3) Into the general population of the institution which has a control unit.
[49 FR 32991, Aug. 17, 1984, as amended at 60 FR 46485, Sept. 6, 1995]

# Subpart E—Procedures for Handling of HIV Positive Inmates Who Pose Danger to Others

# Source:
54 FR 11323, Mar. 17, 1989, unless otherwise noted.
§ 541.60
Purpose and scope.
In an effort to maintain a safe and orderly environment within its institutions, the Bureau of Prisons may place in controlled housing status an inmate who tests HIV positive when there is reliable evidence that the inmate may engage in conduct posing a health risk to another person.
§ 541.61
Standard for placement in controlled housing status.
An inmate may be placed in a controlled housing status when there is reliable evidence causing staff to believe that the inmate engages in conduct posing a health risk to others. This evidence may be the inmate's behavior, or statements of the inmate, or other reliable evidence.
§ 541.62
Referral for placement.
(a) The Warden shall consider an inmate for controlled housing status when the inmate has been confirmed as testing HIV positive and when there is reliable evidence indicating that the inmate may engage in conduct posing a health risk to others. This evidence may come from the statements of the individual, repeated misconduct (including disciplinary actions), or other behavior suggesting that the inmate may engage in predatory or promiscuous sexual behavior, assaultive behavior where body fluids may be transmitted to another, or the sharing of needles.
(b) The Warden shall submit a recommendation for referral of an inmate for placement in a controlled housing status to the Regional Director in the region where the inmate is located.
(c) Based on the perceived health risk to others posed by the inmate's threatened or actual actions, the Warden may, with the telephonic approval of the Regional Director, temporarily (not to exceed 20 work days) place an inmate in a special housing status
(e.g., administrative detention, or a secure health service unit room) pending the inmate's appearance before the Hearing Administrator. Reasons for this placement, and the approval of the Regional Director, shall be documented in the inmate central file. The inmate should be seen daily by case management and medical staff while in this temporary status, and a psychological or psychiatric assessment report should be prepared during this temporary placement period.
[54 FR 11323, Mar. 17, 1989, as amended at 56 FR 31530, July 10, 1991]
§ 541.63
Hearing procedure.
(a) The Regional Director in the region where the inmate is located shall review the institution's recommendation for referral of an inmate for controlled housing status. If the Regional Director concurs with the recommendation, the Regional Director shall designate a person in the Regional Office or a person at department head level or above in the institution to conduct a hearing on the appropriateness of an inmate's placement in controlled housing status. This Hearing Administrator shall have correctional experience, no former personal involvement in the instant situation, and a knowledge of the type of behavior that poses a health risk to others, and of the options available for dealing with an inmate who poses such a health risk to others.
(b) The Hearing Administrator shall provide a hearing to an inmate recommended for controlled housing status. The hearing ordinarily shall take place at the institution housing the inmate.
(c) The hearing shall proceed as follows:
(1) Staff shall provide an inmate with an advance written notice of the hearing and a copy of this rule at least 24 hours prior to the hearing. The notice will advise the inmate of the specific act(s) or other evidence which forms the basis for a recommendation that the inmate be placed in a controlled housing status, unless such evidence would likely endanger staff or others. If an inmate is illiterate, staff shall explain the notice and this rule to the inmate and document that this explanation has occurred.
(2) The Hearing Administrator shall upon request of the inmate provide an inmate the service of a full-time staff member to represent the inmate. The Hearing Administrator shall document in the record of the hearing an inmate's request for, or refusal of staff representation. The inmate may select a staff representative from the local institution. If the selected staff member declines for good reason or is unavailable, the inmate has the option of selecting another representative or, in the case of an absent staff member, of waiting a reasonable period (determined by the Hearing Administrator) for the staff member's return, or of proceeding without a staff representative. When an inmate is illiterate, the Warden shall provide a staff representative. The staff representative shall be available to assist the inmate and, if the inmate desires, shall contact witnesses and present favorable evidence at the hearing. The Hearing Administrator shall afford the staff representative adequate time to speak with the inmate and to inteview available witnesses.
(3) The inmate has the right to be present throughout the hearing, except where institutional security or good order is jeopardized. The Hearing Adminstrator may conduct a hearing in the absence of the inmate when the inmate refuses to appear. The Hearing Administrator shall document an inmate's refusal to appear, or other reason for nonappearance, in the record of the hearing.
(4) The inmate is entitled to present documentary evidence and to have witnesses appear, provided that calling witnesses would not jeopardize or threaten institutional security or individual safety, and further provided that the witnesses are available at the institution where the hearing is being conducted.
(i) The evidence to be presented must be material and relevant to the issue as to whether the inmate can and would pose a health risk to others, if allowed to remain in general prison population. This evidence may come from the statements of the individual, repeated
misconduct (including disciplinary actions), or other behavior suggesting that the inmate may engage in predatory or promiscuous sexual behavior, assaultive behavior where body fluids may be transmitted to others, or the sharing of needles.
(ii) Repetitive witnesses need not be called. Staff who recommend placement in a controlled housing status are not required to appear, provided their recommendation is fully explained in the record.
(iii) When a witness is not available within the institution, or not permitted to appear, the inmate may submit a written statement by that witness. The Hearing Administrator shall, upon the inmate's request, postpone any decision following the hearing for a reasonable time to permit the obtaining and forwarding of written statements.
(iv) The Hearing Administrator shall document in the record of the hearing the reasons for declining to hear a witness or to receive documentary evidence.
[54 FR 11323, Mar. 17, 1989, as amended at 63 FR 5218, Jan. 30, 1998]
§ 541.64
Decision of the Hearing Administrator.
(a) At the conclusion of the hearing and following review of all material related to the recommendation for placement of an inmate in a controlled housing status, the Hearing Administrator shall prepare a written decision as to whether this placement is warranted. The Hearing Administrator shall:
(1) Prepare a summary of the hearing and of all information presented upon which the decision is based; and
(2) Indicate the specific reasons for the decision, to include a description of the act, or series of acts, or other reliable evidence on which the decision is based, along with evidence of the inmate's HIV positive status.
(b) The Hearing Administrator shall advise the inmate in writing of the decision. The inmate shall receive the information described in paragraph (a) of this section unless it is determined that the release of this information could pose a threat to individual safety, or institutional security, in which case that limited information may be withheld. The Hearing Administrator shall advise the inmate that the decision will be submitted for review of the Regional Director in the region where the inmate is located. The Hearing Administrator shall advise the inmate that, if the inmate so desires, the inmate may submit an appeal of the Hearing Administrator's decision to the Regional Director. This appeal, with supporting documentation and reasons, must be filed within five working days of the inmate's receipt of the Hearing Administrator's decision.
(c) The Hearing Administrator may order the continuation of the inmate in special housing pending review by the Regional Director. The Hearing Administrator should state the reasons for this order in the record of the Hearing.
(d) The Hearing Administrator shall send the decision, whether for or against placement in a controlled housing status, and supporting documentation to the Regional Director. Ordinarily, this is done within 20 working days after conclusion of the hearing. Any reason for extension is to be documented.
§ 541.65
Regional Director review and appeal.
(a) The Regional Director shall review the decision and supporting documentation of the Hearing Administrator and, if submitted, the information contained in an inmate's appeal. The Regional Director shall accept or reject the Hearing Administrator's decision within 30 working days of its receipt, unless for good cause there is reason for delay, which shall be documented in the record. The authority of the Regional Director may not be delegated below the level of acting Regional Director.
(b) The Regional Director shall provide a copy of his decision to the Warden at the institution housing the inmate, to the inmate, and to the Hearing Administrator.
(c) An inmate may appeal a decision of the Regional Director, through the Administrative Remedy Program, directly to the National Inmate Appeals
Administrator, Office of General Counsel, within 30 calendar days of the Regional Director's decision (see 28 CFR 542.15).
[54 FR 11323, Mar. 17, 1989, as amended at 63 FR 5218, Jan. 30, 1998]
§ 541.66
Programs and services.
To the extent consistent with available resources and the security needs of the institution, an inmate in controlled housing status is to be considered for activities and privileges afforded to the general population. This includes, but is not limited to, providing an inmate with the opportunity for participation in an education program, library services, counseling, and religious guidance, as well as access to case management, medical and mental health assistance, and legal services, including access to the institution's law libraries. An inmate in controlled housing status should be afforded at least five hours weekly recreation and exercise out of the cell. The recreation shall be by himself or under close supervision. Unless there are compelling reasons to the contrary, institutions shall provide commissary privileges and reasonable amounts of personal property. The Warden may restrict for reasons of security, fire safety, or housekeeping the amount of personal property that an inmate may retain while in controlled housing status. An inmate shall be permitted to have a radio, provided it is equipped with ear plugs. Visits shall be carefully monitored.
§ 541.67
Review of controlled housing status.
(a) Staff designated by the Warden shall evaluate regularly an inmate's adjustment while in controlled housing status. A medical staff member shall see the inmate daily, and regularly record medical and behavioral impressions. Once every 90 days, staff, comprised of a correctional and case management supervisor, and a member of the medical staff, shall meet with the inmate. The inmate is required to attend this meeting in order to be considered for release to the general population. Any refusal by the inmate to attend this meeting will be documented. Staff, at this meeting, shall make an assessment of the inmate's adjustment while in controlled housing and the likely health threat the inmate poses to others by his actions.
(b) The Warden shall serve as the review authority at the institutional level, and shall make a recommendation to the Regional Director when he believes the inmate should be considered for release from controlled housing.
(c) An inmate may appeal a Warden's decision not to recommend release from controlled housing to the Regional Director within five working days of receipt of that decision.
(d) Upon recommendation of the Warden, or upon appeal from the inmate, the Regional Director may decide whether or not to release the inmate to general population from controlled housing status.
(e) An inmate may appeal a decision of the Regional Director, through the Administrative Remedy Program, directly to the National Inmate Appeals Administrator, Office of General Counsel, within 30 calendar days of the Regional Director's decision (see 28 CFR 542.15).
[54 FR 11323, Mar. 17, 1989; 54 FR 18198, Apr. 27, 1989, as amended at 63 FR 5218, Jan. 30, 1998]
§ 541.68
Release from controlled housing status.
(a) Only the Regional Director may release an inmate from controlled housing status. The following factors are considered in the evaluation of an inmate's readiness for return to the general population:
(1) Relationship with other inmates and staff members, which demonstrate that the inmate is able to function in a less restrictive environment without posing a health threat to others or to the orderly operation of the institution;
(2) Involvement in work and recreational activities and assignments or other programs; and
(3) Adherence to institution guidelines and Bureau of Prisons rules and policy.
(b) An inmate released from a controlled housing status may be returned
to the general population of that institution, or to another federal or non-federal institution.
Pt. 542

# PART 542—ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDY
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Administrative Remedy Program
Sec.
542.10
Purpose and scope.
542.11
Responsibility.
542.12
[Reserved]
542.13
Informal resolution.
542.14
Initial filing.
542.15
Appeals.
542.16
Assistance.
542.17
Resubmission.
542.18
Response time.
542.19
Access to indexes and responses.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 3621, 3622, 3624, 4001, 4042, 4081, 4082 (Repealed in part as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 5006-5024 (Repealed October 12, 1984, as to offenses committed after that date), 5039; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510.

# Source:
61 FR 88, Jan. 2, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Administrative Remedy Program
§ 542.10
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of the Administrative Remedy Program is to allow an inmate to seek formal review of an issue relating to any aspect of his/her own confinement. An inmate may not submit a Request or Appeal on behalf of another inmate.
(b)
Scope.
This Program applies to all inmates in institutions operated by the Bureau of Prisons, to inmates designated to contract Community Corrections Centers (CCCs) under Bureau of Prisons responsibility, and to former inmates for issues that arose during their confinement. This Program does not apply to inmates confined in other non-federal facilities.
(c)
Statutorily-mandated procedures.
There are statutorily-mandated procedures in place for tort claims (28 CFR part 543, subpart C), Inmate Accident Compensation claims (28 CFR part 301), and Freedom of Information Act or Privacy Act requests (28 CFR part 513, subpart D). If an inmate raises an issue in a request or appeal that cannot be resolved through the Administrative Remedy Program, the Bureau will refer the inmate to the appropriate statutorily-mandated procedures.
[67 FR 50805, Aug. 6, 2002]
§ 542.11
Responsibility.
(a) The Community Corrections Manager (CCM), Warden, Regional Director, and General Counsel are responsible for the implementation and operation of the Administrative Remedy Program at the Community Corrections Center (CCC), institution, regional and Central Office levels, respectively, and shall:
(1) Establish procedures for receiving, recording, reviewing, investigating, and responding to Administrative Remedy Requests (Requests) or Appeals (Appeals) submitted by an inmate;
(2) Acknowledge receipt of a Request or Appeal by returning a receipt to the inmate;
(3) Conduct an investigation into each Request or Appeal;
(4) Respond to and sign all Requests or Appeals filed at their levels. At the regional level, signatory authority may be delegated to the Deputy Regional Director. At the Central Office level, signatory authority may be delegated to the National Inmate Appeals Administrator. Signatory authority extends to staff designated as acting in the capacities specified in this § 542.11, but may not be further delegated without the written approval of the General Counsel.
(b) Inmates have the responsibility to use this Program in good faith and in an honest and straightforward manner.
§ 542.12
[Reserved]
§ 542.13
Informal resolution.
(a)
Informal resolution.
Except as provided in § 542.13(b), an inmate shall first present an issue of concern informally
to staff, and staff shall attempt to informally resolve the issue before an inmate submits a Request for Administrative Remedy. Each Warden shall establish procedures to allow for the informal resolution of inmate complaints.
(b)
Exceptions.
Inmates in CCCs are not required to attempt informal resolution. An informal resolution attempt is not required prior to submission to the Regional or Central Office as provided for in § 542.14(d) of this part. An informal resolution attempt may be waived in individual cases at the Warden or institution Administrative Remedy Coordinator's discretion when the inmate demonstrates an acceptable reason for bypassing informal resolution.
§ 542.14
Initial filing.
(a)
Submission.
The deadline for completion of informal resolution and submission of a formal written Administrative Remedy Request, on the appropriate form (BP-9), is 20 calendar days following the date on which the basis for the Request occurred.
(b)
Extension.
Where the inmate demonstrates a valid reason for delay, an extension in filing time may be allowed. In general, valid reason for delay means a situation which prevented the inmate from submitting the request within the established time frame. Valid reasons for delay include the following: an extended period in-transit during which the inmate was separated from documents needed to prepare the Request or Appeal; an extended period of time during which the inmate was physically incapable of preparing a Request or Appeal; an unusually long period taken for informal resolution attempts; indication by an inmate, verified by staff, that a response to the inmate's request for copies of dispositions requested under § 542.19 of this part was delayed.
(c)
Form.
(1) The inmate shall obtain the appropriate form from CCC staff or institution staff (ordinarily, the correctional counselor).
(2) The inmate shall place a single complaint or a reasonable number of closely related issues on the form. If the inmate includes on a single form multiple unrelated issues, the submission shall be rejected and returned without response, and the inmate shall be advised to use a separate form for each unrelated issue. For DHO and UDC appeals, each separate incident report number must be appealed on a separate form.
(3) The inmate shall complete the form with all requested identifying information and shall state the complaint in the space provided on the form. If more space is needed, the inmate may use up to one letter-size (8
1/2
” by 11”) continuation page. The inmate must provide an additional copy of any continuation page. The inmate must submit one copy of supporting exhibits. Exhibits will not be returned with the response. Because copies of exhibits must be filed for any appeal (see § 542.15(b)(3)), the inmate is encouraged to retain a copy of all exhibits for his or her personal records.
(4) The inmate shall date and sign the Request and submit it to the institution staff member designated to receive such Requests (ordinarily a correctional counselor). CCC inmates may mail their Requests to the CCM.
(d)
Exceptions to initial filing at institution
—(1)
Sensitive issues.
If the inmate reasonably believes the issue is sensitive and the inmate's safety or well-being would be placed in danger if the Request became known at the institution, the inmate may submit the Request directly to the appropriate Regional Director. The inmate shall clearly mark “Sensitive” upon the Request and explain, in writing, the reason for not submitting the Request at the institution. If the Regional Administrative Remedy Coordinator agrees that the Request is sensitive, the Request shall be accepted. Otherwise, the Request will not be accepted, and the inmate shall be advised in writing of that determination, without a return of the Request. The inmate may pursue the matter by submitting an Administrative Remedy Request locally to the Warden. The Warden shall allow a reasonable extension of time for such a resubmission.
(2)
DHO appeals.
DHO appeals shall be submitted initially to the Regional Director for the region where the inmate is currently located.
(3)
Control Unit appeals.
Appeals related to Executive Panel Reviews of Control Unit placement shall be submitted directly to the General Counsel.
(4)
Controlled housing status appeals.
Appeals related to the Regional Director's review of controlled housing status placement may be filed directly with the General Counsel.
(5)
Other requests for formal review of decisions not originating from the Warden.
Other than the exceptions listed above, formal administrative remedy requests regarding initial decisions that did not originate with the Warden, or his/her staff, may be initially filed with the Bureau office which made the original decision, and appealed directly to the General Counsel.
[61 FR 88, Jan. 2, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 34626, June 18, 2010]
§ 542.15
Appeals.
(a)
Submission.
An inmate who is not satisfied with the Warden's response may submit an Appeal on the appropriate form (BP-10) to the appropriate Regional Director within 20 calendar days of the date the Warden signed the response. An inmate who is not satisfied with the Regional Director's response may submit an Appeal on the appropriate form (BP-11) to the General Counsel within 30 calendar days of the date the Regional Director signed the response. When the inmate demonstrates a valid reason for delay, these time limits may be extended. Valid reasons for delay include those situations described in § 542.14(b) of this part. Appeal to the General Counsel is the final administrative appeal.
(b)
Form.
(1) Appeals to the Regional Director shall be submitted on the form designed for regional Appeals (BP-10) and accompanied by one complete copy or duplicate original of the institution Request and response. Appeals to the General Counsel shall be submitted on the form designed for Central Office Appeals (BP-11) and accompanied by one complete copy or duplicate original of the institution and regional filings and their responses. Appeals shall state specifically the reason for appeal.
(2) An inmate may not raise in an Appeal issues not raised in the lower level filings. An inmate may not combine Appeals of separate lower level responses (different case numbers) into a single Appeal.
(3) An inmate shall complete the appropriate form with all requested identifying information and shall state the reasons for the Appeal in the space provided on the form. If more space is needed, the inmate may use up to one letter-size (8
1/2
″ × 11″) continuation page. The inmate shall provide two additional copies of any continuation page and exhibits with the regional Appeal, and three additional copies with an Appeal to the Central Office (the inmate is also to provide copies of exhibits used at the prior level(s) of appeal). The inmate shall date and sign the Appeal and mail it to the appropriate Regional Director, if a Regional Appeal, or to the National Inmate Appeals Administrator, Office of General Counsel, if a Central Office Appeal (see 28 CFR part 503 for information on locating Bureau addresses).
[61 FR 88, Jan. 2, 1996, as amended at 70 FR 67091, Nov. 4, 2005]
§ 542.16
Assistance.
(a) An inmate may obtain assistance from another inmate or from institution staff in preparing a Request or an Appeal. An inmate may also obtain assistance from outside sources, such as family members or attorneys. However, no person may submit a Request or Appeal on the inmate's behalf, and obtaining assistance will not be considered a valid reason for exceeding a time limit for submission unless the delay was caused by staff.
(b) Wardens shall ensure that assistance is available for inmates who are illiterate, disabled, or who are not functionally literate in English. Such assistance includes provision of reasonable accommodation in order for an inmate with a disability to prepare and process a Request or an Appeal.
§ 542.17
Resubmission.
(a)
Rejections.
The Coordinator at any level (CCM, institution, region, Central Office) may reject and return to the inmate without response a Request or an Appeal that is written by an inmate in a manner that is obscene or abusive, or does not meet any other requirement of this part.
(b)
Notice.
When a submission is rejected, the inmate shall be provided a written notice, signed by the Administrative Remedy Coordinator, explaining the reason for rejection. If the defect on which the rejection is based is correctable, the notice shall inform the inmate of a reasonable time extension within which to correct the defect and resubmit the Request or Appeal.
(c)
Appeal of rejections.
When a Request or Appeal is rejected and the inmate is not given an opportunity to correct the defect and resubmit, the inmate may appeal the rejection, including a rejection on the basis of an exception as described in § 542.14(d), to the next appeal level. The Coordinator at that level may affirm the rejection, may direct that the submission be accepted at the lower level (either upon the inmate's resubmission or direct return to that lower level), or may accept the submission for filing. The inmate shall be informed of the decision by delivery of either a receipt or rejection notice.
§ 542.18
Response time.
If accepted, a Request or Appeal is considered filed on the date it is logged into the Administrative Remedy Index as received. Once filed, response shall be made by the Warden or CCM within 20 calendar days; by the Regional Director within 30 calendar days; and by the General Counsel within 40 calendar days. If the Request is determined to be of an emergency nature which threatens the inmate's immediate health or welfare, the Warden shall respond not later than the third calendar day after filing. If the time period for response to a Request or Appeal is insufficient to make an appropriate decision, the time for response may be extended once by 20 days at the institution level, 30 days at the regional level, or 20 days at the Central Office level. Staff shall inform the inmate of this extension in writing. Staff shall respond in writing to all filed Requests or Appeals. If the inmate does not receive a response within the time allotted for reply, including extension, the inmate may consider the absence of a response to be a denial at that level.
§ 542.19
Access to indexes and responses.
Inmates and members of the public may request access to Administrative Remedy indexes and responses, for which inmate names and Register Numbers have been removed, as indicated below. Each institution shall make available its index, and the indexes of its regional office and the Central Office. Each regional office shall make available its index, the indexes of all institutions in its region, and the index of the Central Office. The Central Office shall make available its index and the indexes of all institutions and regional offices. Responses may be requested from the location where they are maintained and must be identified by Remedy ID number as indicated on an index. Copies of indexes or responses may be inspected during regular office hours at the locations indicated above, or may be purchased in accordance with the regular fees established for copies furnished under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).
Pt. 543

# PART 543—LEGAL MATTERS
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Inmate Legal Activities
Sec.
543.10
Purpose and scope.
543.11
Legal research and preparation of legal documents.
543.12
Retention of attorneys.
543.13
Visits by attorneys.
543.14
Limitation or denial of attorney visits and correspondence.
543.15
Legal aid program.
543.16
Other paralegals, clerks, and legal assistants.

# Subpart C—Federal Tort Claims Act
543.30
Purpose and scope.
543.31
Presenting a claim.
543.32
Processing the claim.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 3621, 3622, 3624, 4001, 4042, 4081, 4082 (Repealed in part as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 5006-5024 (Repealed October 12, 1984 as to Offenses committed after that date), 5039; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510, 1346(b), 2671-80; 28 CFR 0.95-0.99, 0.172, 14.1-11.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Inmate Legal Activities

# Source:
44 FR 38263, June 29, 1979, unless otherwise noted.
§ 543.10
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau of Prisons affords an inmate reasonable access to legal materials and counsel, and reasonable opportunity to prepare legal documents. The Warden shall establish an inmate law library, and procedures for access to legal reference materials and to legal counsel, and for preparation of legal documents.
[46 FR 59509, Dec. 4, 1981]
§ 543.11
Legal research and preparation of legal documents.
(a) The Warden shall make materials in the inmate law library available whenever practical, including evening and weekend hours. The Warden shall allow an inmate a reasonable amount of time, ordinarily during the inmate's leisure time (that is, when the inmate is not participating in a scheduled program or work assignment), to do legal research and to prepare legal documents. Where practical, the Warden shall allow preparation of documents in living quarters during an inmate's leisure time.
(b) The Warden shall periodically ensure that materials in each inmate law library are kept intact and that lost or damaged materials are replaced.
(c) Staff shall advise an inmate of rules and local procedures governing use of the inmate law library. Unauthorized possession of library materials by an inmate constitutes a prohibited act, generally warranting disciplinary action (see part 541 of this chapter).
(d) An inmate's legal materials include but are not limited to the inmate's pleadings and documents (such as a presentence report) that have been filed in court or with another judicial or administrative body, drafts of pleadings to be submitted by the inmate to a court or with other judicial or administrative body which contain the inmate's name and/or case caption prominently displayed on the first page, documents pertaining to an inmate's administrative case, photocopies of legal reference materials, and legal reference materials which are not available in the institution main law library (or basic law library in a satellite camp).
(1) An inmate may solicit or purchase legal materials from outside the institution. The inmate may receive the legal materials in accordance with the provisions on incoming publications or correspondence (see 28 CFR part 540, subparts B and F) or through an authorized attorney visit from a retained attorney. The legal materials are subject to inspection and may be read or copied unless they are received through an authorized attorney visit from a retained attorney or are properly sent as special mail (for example, mail from a court or from an attorney), in which case they may be inspected for contraband or for the purpose of verifying that the mail qualifies as special mail.
(2) Staff may allow an inmate to possess those legal materials which are necessary for the inmate's own legal actions. Staff may also allow an inmate to possess the legal materials of another inmate subject to the limitations of paragraph (f)(2) of this section. The Warden may limit the amount of legal materials an inmate may accumulate for security or housekeeping reasons.
(e) An inmate is responsible for submitting his documents to court. Institution staff who are authorized to administer oaths shall be available to provide necessary witnessing of these documents, as requested by inmates and at times scheduled by staff.
(f)(1) Except as provided for in paragraph (f)(4) of this section, an inmate may assist another inmate in the same institution during his or her leisure time (as defined in paragraph (a) of this section) with legal research and the preparation of legal documents for submission to a court or other judicial body.
(2) Except as provided for in paragraph (f)(4) of this section, an inmate may possess another inmate's legal materials while assisting the other inmate in the institution's main law library and in another location if the Warden so designates.
(i) The assisting inmate may not remove another inmate's legal materials, including copies of the legal materials,
from the law library or other designated location. An assisting inmate is permitted to make handwritten notes and to remove those notes from the library or other designated location if the notes do not contain a case caption or document title or the name(s) of any inmate(s). The assisting inmate may also develop and possess handwritten drafts of pleadings, so long as the draft pleadings do not contain a case caption or document title or the name(s) of any inmate(s). These notes and drafts are not considered to be the assisting inmate's legal property, and when the assisting inmate has these documents outside the law library or other designated location, they are subject to the property limitations in § 553.11(a) of this chapter.
(ii) Although the inmate being assisted need not remain present in the law library or other designated location while the assistance is being rendered, that inmate is responsible for providing and retrieving his or her legal materials from the library or other designated location. Ordinarily, the inmate must provide and retrieve his or her legal materials during his or her leisure time. An inmate with an imminent court deadline may request a brief absence from a scheduled program or work assignment in order to provide or retrieve legal materials from an assisting inmate.
(3) The Warden may give special consideration to the legal needs of inmates in mental health seclusion status in federal medical centers or to inmates in controlled housing.
(4) The Warden at any institution may impose limitations on an inmate's assistance to another inmate in the interest of institution security, good order, or discipline.
(g) The institution staff shall, upon an inmate's request and at times scheduled by staff, duplicate legal documents if the inmate demonstrates that more than one copy must be submitted to court and that the duplication cannot be accomplished by use of carbon paper. The inmate shall bear the cost, and the duplication shall be done so as not to interfere with regular institution operations. Staff may waive the cost if the inmate is without funds or if the material to be duplicated is minimal, and the inmate's requests for duplication are not large or excessive.
(h) Unless clearly impractical, the Warden shall allow an inmate preparing legal documents to use a typewriter, or, if the inmate cannot type, to have another inmate type his documents. The Warden may allow the inmate to hire a public stenographer to type documents outside the institution, but the institution may not assume the expense of hiring the public stenographer. Staff shall advise the inmate of any delay in the typing of which they have received notice from the stenographer.
(i) The Warden shall give special time allowance for research and preparation of documents to an inmate who demonstrates a requirement to meet an imminent court deadline. Otherwise, each inmate shall continue his regular institutional activities without undue disruption by legal activities.
(j) With consideration of the needs of other inmates and the availability of staff and other resources, the Warden shall provide an inmate confined in disciplinary segregation or administrative detention a means of access to legal materials, along with an opportunity to prepare legal documents. The Warden shall allow an inmate in segregation or detention a reasonable amount of personal legal materials. In no case shall the amount of personal legal materials be such as to pose a fire, sanitation, security, or housekeeping hazard.
[44 FR 38263, June 29, 1979, as amended at 62 FR 4893, Jan. 31, 1997]
§ 543.12
Retention of attorneys.
(a) The Warden shall allow an inmate to contact and retain attorneys. With the written consent of the inmate, staff may advise an attorney of the inmate's available funds. Staff may not interfere with selection and retention of attorneys if the inmate has attained majority and is mentally competent. If the inmate is a mental incompetent or a minor, the Warden shall refer to the inmate's guardian or to the appropriate court all matters concerning the retention and payment of attorneys.
(b) The Bureau of Prisons may not act as guarantor or collector of fees. As to correspondence with attorneys and
telephone calls to attorneys, see part 540 of this chapter.
§ 543.13
Visits by attorneys.
(a) The Warden shall, under the conditions of this section, permit visits by the retained, appointed, or prospective attorney of an inmate or by an attorney who wishes to interview an inmate as a witness.
(b) The Warden generally may not limit the frequency of attorney visits since the number of visits necessary is dependent upon the nature and urgency of the legal problems involved. The Warden shall set the time and place for visits, which ordinarily take place during regular visiting hours. Attorney visits shall take place in a private conference room, if available, or in a regular visiting room in an area and at a time designed to allow a degree of privacy. The Warden may make exceptions according to local conditions or for an emergency situation demonstrated by the inmate or visiting attorney.
(c) For Bureau institutions that do not house pretrial detainees and unsentenced individuals, the attorney shall make an advance appointment for the visit through the Warden prior to each visit. However, the Warden shall make every effort to arrange for a visit when prior notification is not practicable. Bureau institutions that house pretrial detainees and unsentenced individuals will allow scheduled and unscheduled attorney visits during designated attorney visitation hours.
(d) The Warden may require an attorney to indicate where he is licensed as an attorney and how that fact may be verified. Prior to each appointment or visit, the Warden shall require each attorney to identify himself and to confirm that he wishes to visit an inmate who has requested his visit or whom he represents or whom he wishes to interview as a witness. The Warden may not ask the attorney to state the subject matter of the law suit or interview. If there is any question about the identity of the visitor or his qualification as an attorney in good standing, the Warden shall refer the matter to the Regional Counsel.
(e) Staff shall not subject visits between an attorney and an inmate to auditory supervision. The Warden may permit tape recordings to be used by an attorney during the course of a visit only if the attorney states in writing in advance of the interview that the sole purpose of the recording is to facilitate the attorney-client or attorney-witness relationship.
(f) The Warden may, at any time, subject an attorney to a search of his person and belongings for the purpose of ascertaining if contraband is present, as a condition of visiting an inmate.
[44 FR 38263, June 29, 1979, as amended at 89 FR 8332, Feb. 7, 2024 ]
§ 543.14
Limitation or denial of attorney visits and correspondence.
(a) An act by an attorney which violates Bureau regulations or institution guidelines and which threatens the security, good order, or discipline of the institution is grounds for limitation or denial by the Warden of the attorney's privileged visitation and correspondence rights. Acts by an attorney which may warrant such limitation or denial include, for example the following:
(1) A false statement as to the attorney's identity or qualifications;
(2) A plan, attempt, or act to introduce contraband into the institution;
(3) A conspiracy to commit, an attempt to commit, or the actual commission of an act of violence within an institution; and
(4) Encouraging an inmate to violate the law, Bureau of Prisons rules, or local implementing guidelines.
(b) Unless the breach of regulations is extreme or repeated, limitation rather than a denial of visitation or correspondence rights is proper, especially where the inmate is represented by the attorney and is confronted with a court deadline. For example, the Warden may subject an attorney to a search of his person and belongings or may permit the attorney only non-privileged correspondence. The Warden shall also consider referral of the matter to the state agency regulating the attorney's professional conduct.
(c) An act by an inmate in violation of Bureau regulations or institution guidelines warrants a limitation by the Warden of the inmate's correspondence or visiting rights with attorneys only
if necessary to protect institution security, good order, or discipline. The Warden may not deny correspondence or visiting rights with attorneys generally.
(d) The attorney may appeal any limitation or denial by the Warden of attorney visits or correspondence rights to the Regional Director. The inmate affected may appeal through the Administrative Remedy Procedures.
§ 543.15
Legal aid program.
(a) A legal aid program which is funded or approved by the Bureau is expected to provide a broad range of legal assistance to inmates. Staff shall allow these programs generally to operate with the same independence as privately retained attorneys. The Warden shall refer a request or decision to terminate or restrict a program, or individual participants in a program, to the Regional Counsel.
(b) In order to promote the inmate-program relationship, the Warden shall give those students or legal assistants working in legal aid programs the same status as attorneys with respect to visiting and correspondence except where specific exceptions are made in this section and in part 540 of this chapter.
(c) An attorney or law school professor shall supervise students and legal assistants participating in the program. The supervisor shall provide the Warden with a signed statement accepting professional responsibility for acts of each student or legal assistant affecting the institution. The Warden may require each student or legal assistant to complete and sign a personal history statement and a pledge to abide by Bureau regulations and institution guidelines. If necessary to maintain security or good order in the institution, the Warden may prohibit a student or legal assistant from visiting or corresponding with an inmate.
§ 543.16
Other paralegals, clerks, and legal assistants.
(a) The Bureau of Prisons recognizes the use of assistants by attorneys to perform legal tasks and, with proper controls and exceptions enumerated in this section and in part 540 of this chapter, accords such assistants the same status as attorneys with respect to visiting and correspondence.
(b) The attorney who employs an assistant and who wishes the assistant to visit or correspond with an inmate on legal matters shall provide the Warden with a signed statement including:
(1) Certification of the assistant's ability to perform in this role and awareness of the responsibility of this position;
(2) A pledge to supervise the assistant's activities; and
(3) Acceptance of personal and professional responsibility for all acts of the assistant which may affect the institution, its inmates, and staff. The Warden may require each assistant to fill out and sign a personal history statement and a pledge to abide by Bureau regulations and institution guidelines. If necessary to maintain security or good order in the institution, the Warden may prohibit a legal assistant from visiting or corresponding with an inmate.

# Subpart C—Federal Tort Claims Act

# Source:
65 FR 34364, May 26, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 543.30
Purpose and scope.
Pursuant to the Federal Tort Claims Act, a claim for money damages for personal injury or death and/or damage to or loss of property must be filed against the United States by the injured party with the appropriate Federal agency for administrative action. General provisions for processing administrative claims under the Federal Tort Claims Act are contained in 28 CFR part 14. The provisions in this subpart describe the procedures to follow when filing an administrative tort claim with the Bureau of Prisons.
§ 543.31
Presenting a claim.
(a)
Claimant.
You may file a claim if you are the injured person or the owner of the damaged or lost property. A person acting on your behalf as an agent, executor, administrator, parent, guardian, or other representative may file a claim for you if the person provides a written statement signed by you giving that person permission to act for you.
A representative may also file a claim for wrongful death. If you hire a lawyer or authorize a representative to act on your behalf, the agency will correspond only with that representative, and will not continue to correspond with you.
(b)
Claim form.
You may obtain a form from staff in the Central Office, Regional Offices, Bureau institutions, or staff training centers.
(c)
Presenting a claim.
You may either mail or deliver the claim to the regional office in the region where the loss or injury occurred. If the loss or injury occurred in the Central Office, you may either mail or deliver the claim to the Office of General Counsel, Central Office. A list of addresses for all the Bureau institutions and offices can be found at
www.bop.gov.
[65 FR 34364, May 26, 2000, as amended at 70 FR 67091, Nov. 4, 2005; 88 FR 76657, Nov. 7, 2023; 88 FR 87903, Dec. 20, 2023]
§ 543.32
Processing the claim.
(a)
Receipt of acknowledgment letters.
If you have presented a claim signed by you or a duly authorized agent or legal representative that provides all the necessary information (such as time, date, and place where the incident occurred, and a specific sum of money you are requesting as damages), you will receive an acknowledgment letter indicating the presentment date and a claim number. If your submission is unsigned, or signed by a person without legal authority to present the claim on your behalf, or you fail to provide all necessary information, your submission will be rejected and returned to you for resubmission. The presentment date is the date your submission containing all required signatures and necessary information is first received by either the Department of Justice or an office of the Bureau of Prisons. You should refer to your claim number in all further correspondence with the agency. Additionally, you must inform the agency of any changes in your address.
(b)
Transfer of claims.
If your claim is improperly submitted to the wrong office or agency, you will be notified by the responsible office that your claim was transferred to another regional office, the Central Office, or another agency.
(c)
Investigation.
The regional office ordinarily refers the claim to the appropriate institution or office for investigation. You may also be required to provide additional information during the investigation. Your failure to respond within a reasonable time may result in the denial of the claim.
(d)
Administrative claim decisionmaker.
The Regional Counsel or his or her designee reviews the investigation and the supporting evidence and renders a decision on all claims properly presented to the regional office and within regional settlement authority. The Regional Counsel has limited settlement authority (up to an amount established by the Director of the Bureau of Prisons). After considering the merits of the claim, the Regional Counsel may deny or propose a settlement of the claim. The Associate General Counsel, Litigation Branch, will investigate and propose settlement for all claims properly presented in the Central Office in accordance with delegated settlement authority. If the proposed settlement exceeds the Bureau of Prisons' authority, the General Counsel will seek approval from the appropriate Department of Justice officers.
(e)
Central Office review.
If the Regional Counsel recommends a proposed settlement in excess of the settlement authority, the claim will be forwarded, with a recommendation, to the Office of General Counsel, Central Office for their review.
(f)
Options if claim is denied or settlement offer is unsatisfactory.
If your claim is denied or you are dissatisfied with a settlement offer, you may request in writing that the Bureau of Prisons reconsider your claim in the administrative stage. You should include additional evidence of injury or loss to support your request for reconsideration. If you are dissatisfied with the final agency action, you may file suit in an appropriate United States District Court, as no further administrative action is available.
(g)
Acceptance of settlement.
If you accept a settlement, you give up your right to bring a lawsuit against the United States or against any employee of the government whose action or lack of action gave rise to your claim.
(h)
Response timeline.
Generally, you will receive a decision regarding your claim within six months of when you properly present the claim. If you have not received a letter denying your claim within six months after the date your claim was presented, you may deem the absence of a response to your claim as a denial. You may then proceed to file a lawsuit in the appropriate United States District Court.
[65 FR 34364, May 26, 2000, as amended at 88 FR 76658, Nov. 7, 2023; 88 FR 87903, Dec. 20, 2023; 89 FR 101882, Dec. 17, 2024]
Pt. 544

# PART 544—EDUCATION
Subparts A-B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Postsecondary Education Programs for Inmates
Sec.
544.20
Purpose and scope.
544.21
Procedures.

# Subpart D—Inmate Recreation Programs
544.30
Purpose and scope.
544.31
Definitions.
544.32
Goals.
544.33
Movies.
544.34
Inmate running events.
544.35
Art and hobbycraft.

# Subpart E—Mandatory English-as-a-Second Language Program (ESL)
544.40
Purpose and scope.
544.41
Applicability: Who must attend the ESL program.
544.42
Procedures.
544.43
Incentives.
544.44
Disciplinary action.

# Subpart F—Occupational Education Programs
544.50
Purpose and scope.
544.51
Procedures.
544.52
Levels of Occupational Education Programs.
Subpart G [Reserved]

# Subpart H—Literacy Program
544.70
Purpose and scope.
544.71
Exceptions to required literacy program participation.
544.72
Incentives.
544.73
Program participation.
544.74
Work assignment limitations.
544.75
Disciplinary action.

# Subpart I—Education, Training and Leisure-Time Program Standards
544.80
Purpose and scope.
544.81
Program goals.
544.82
General program characteristics.
544.83
Inmate tutors.
Subpart J [Reserved]

# Subpart K—Inmate Library Services
544.100
Purpose and scope.
544.101
Procedures.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 3621, 3622, 3624, 4001, 4042, 4081, 4082 (Repealed in part as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 5006-5024 (Repealed October 12, 1984 as to offenses committed after that date), 5039; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510.

# Source:
44 FR 38249, June 29, 1979, unless otherwise noted.
Subparts A-B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Postsecondary Education Programs for Inmates

# Source:
68 FR 65171, Nov. 19, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 544.20
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau of Prisons offers inmates the opportunity under its postsecondary education program to participate in postsecondary education courses (courses for college credit other than those courses which pertain to occupational education programs) which have been determined to be appropriate in light of the institution's need for discipline, security, and good order. Participation in postsecondary education courses which are part of occupational education programs is governed by the provisions of the Bureau's occupational education program (see subpart F of this part).
§ 544.21
Procedures.
(a) The Warden or designee must appoint a postsecondary education coordinator (ordinarily an education staff member) for the institution. The postsecondary education coordinator is responsible for coordinating the institution's postsecondary education program.
(b) An inmate who wishes to participate in a postsecondary education
course must apply through the postsecondary education coordinator. If the postsecondary education coordinator determines that the course is appropriate in light of the institution's need for discipline, security, and good order, the inmate may enroll provided that:
(1) The inmate meets eligibility requirements for the course which have been set by the course provider,
(2) The inmate is responsible for payment of any tuition either through personal funds, community resources, or scholarships available to the inmate, and
(3) The unit team determines that the course is appropriate for the inmate's apparent needs.

# Subpart D—Inmate Recreation Programs

# Source:
58 FR 65850, Dec. 16, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 544.30
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau of Prisons encourages inmates to make constructive use of leisure time and offers movies, games, sports, social activities, arts and hobbycrafts, wellness and other group and individual activities.
§ 544.31
Definitions.
(a)
Leisure activities
are a wide range of activities in which inmates may participate when not performing assigned duties. Leisure activities include participation in organized and informal games, sports, physical fitness, table games, hobbycrafts, music programs, intramural activities, social and cultural organizations, movies, and stage shows. Religious activities, psychological services, and education classes are not included within this definition, except when they are used specifically to encourage knowledge, skills, and attitudes related to leisure activity involvement.
(b)
Organized activities
are those activities accounted for by registration or roster of individual participants, and occur at a scheduled time and place.
(c)
Art work
includes all paintings and sketches rendered in any of the usual media (oils, pastels, crayons, pencils, inks, and charcoal).
(d)
Hobbycraft activities
include ceramics, leatherwork, models, clay, mosaics, crochet, knitting, sculptures, woodworking, lapidary, and other forms consistent with institution guidelines.
(e)
Inmate wellness program activities
include screening, assessments, goal setting, fitness/nutrition prescriptions and counseling.
§ 544.32
Goals.
The Warden is to ensure, to the extent possible, that leisure activities are provided to meet social, physical, psychological, and overall wellness needs of inmates.
(a) Leisure activities are designed to attract inmate participation regardless of ethnic, racial, age, or sex difference, or handicap considerations, and to enhance the potential for post-release involvement.
(b) Leisure activities are designed to ensure that an inmate with the need has the opportunity to complete one or more activities (see 28 CFR 544.81).
§ 544.33
Movies.
If there is a program to show movies, the Supervisor of Education shall ensure that X-rated movies are not shown.
§ 544.34
Inmate running events.
Running events will ordinarily not exceed 10 kilometers or 6.2 miles. Appropriate medical staff and fluid supplies (e.g., water) should be available for all inmate running events.
§ 544.35
Art and hobbycraft.
(a) An inmate engaged in art or hobbycraft activities may obtain materials through:
(1) The institution art program (if one exists);
(2) The commissary sales unit;
(3) Special purchase commissary orders, if the sales unit is unable to stock a sufficient amount of the needed materials; or
(4) Other sources approved by the Warden.
(b) Each inmate shall identify completed art or hobbycraft products by showing the inmate's name and register number on the reverse side of the item.
(c) Completed or abandoned art or hobbycraft articles must be disposed of in one of the following ways:
(1) Upon approval of the Warden, by giving the item to an authorized visitor. The quantity of items will be determined by the Warden.
(2) By mailing the item to a verified relative or approved visitor at the inmate's expense.
(3) By selling, through an institution art and hobbycraft sales program, if one exists, after the institution price committee has determined the sale price.
(4) Other methods established by the Warden.
(d)
Restrictions.
Art and hobbycraft programs are intended for the personal enjoyment of an inmate and as an opportunity to learn a new leisure skill. They are not for the mass production of art and hobbycraft items by artists or to provide a means of supplementing an inmate's income.
(1) The Warden may restrict, for reasons of security and housekeeping, the size and quantity of all products made in the art and hobbycraft program. Paintings mailed out of the institution must conform to both institution guidelines and postal regulations. If an inmate's art work or hobbycraft is on public display, the Warden may restrict the content of the work in accordance with community standards of decency.
(2) The Warden may set limits, in compliance with commissary guidelines, on the amount of money an inmate may spend on art or hobbycraft items or materials.
(3) The Warden may restrict for reasons of security, fire safety, and housekeeping, the use or possession of art and hobbycraft items or materials.
(4) Appropriate hobbycraft activities shall be encouraged in the inmate living areas. However, the Warden may limit hobbycraft projects in the cell/living areas to those which can be contained/stored in provided personal property containers. Exceptions may be made for such items as a painting where the size would prohibit placement in a locker. Hobbycraft items must be removed from the living area when completed unless they are approved as personal property.
(5) The Warden shall require the inmate to mail completed hobbycraft articles out of the institution at the inmate's expense, or to give them to an authorized visitor within 30 days of completion, or to dispose of them through approved sales. However, articles offered for sale must be sold within 90 days of completion, or must be given to an authorized visitor or mailed out of the institution at the inmate's expense.
(6) Where space and equipment are limited and demand is high, the Warden may set limits on the amount of time an inmate may use a hobbycraft facility, e.g., the Warden may limit an inmate's use of any workshop or classroom to six months to make room for new students. Hobbycraft participants may be rotated to allow for maximum utilization of the resources.
(7) Disciplinary action may be taken against inmates found with unauthorized hobbycraft materials in their possession. This action may include the removal of the inmate from the hobbycraft program.

# Subpart E—Mandatory English-as-a-Second Language Program (ESL)

# Source:
59 FR 14724, Mar. 29, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 544.40
Purpose and scope.
Pursuant to the Crime Control Act of 1990 (18 U.S.C. 3624(f)), limited English proficient inmates confined in Federal Bureau of Prisons institutions are required to attend an English-as-a-Second Language (ESL) program until they function at the equivalence of the eighth grade level in competency skills. Waivers to this requirement may be granted by the Warden in accordance with §§ 544.41 and 544.42.
§ 544.41
Applicability: Who must attend the ESL program.
(a) All Federal prisoners who have limited English proficiency skills shall attend an ESL program except:
(1) Pretrial inmates;
(2) Inmates committed for purpose of study and observation under the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 4205(c) or, effective November 1, 1987, 18 U.S.C. 3552(b);
(3) Sentenced aliens with a deportation detainer;
(4) Other inmates whom, for documented good cause, the Warden may excuse from attending the ESL program.
(b) Staff shall document in the inmate's education file the specific reasons for not requiring the inmate to participate in the ESL program.
§ 544.42
Procedures.
(a) The Warden at each federal institution shall ensure that inmates who at their initial classification are found to be limited English proficient are enrolled in the ESL program. Determination of limited English proficiency is made by staff on the basis of personal interviews and placement testing.
(b) An inmate who returns to the Federal Bureau of Prisons on a new sentence or as a parole violator, and who has not achieved or is unable to demonstrate verified achievement of the eighth grade level, must provide verification or enroll in the ESL program until that inmate achieves such a grade or is granted a waiver for cause.
(c) The Warden or designee shall assign to an education staff member the responsibility to coordinate the institution's ESL program. The ESL coordinator or designee shall meet with the inmate for the purpose of enrolling the inmate in the ESL program. The ESL coordinator shall be responsible for the completion of the official ESL Program Record, and shall place it in the inmate's education file.
(d) Ordinarily, there will be no time limit for completion of the ESL mandatory program. However, after 240 instructional hours of continuous enrollment in an ESL program, excluding sick time, furloughs, and other excused absences from scheduled classes, the Warden shall have the authority to grant a waiver from further program participation. This waiver may be granted when it is determined that the inmate will not benefit from further instruction. Each exemption determination shall be made on an individual basis and shall be supported by documentation.
[59 FR 14724, Mar. 29, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 39916, July 24, 1997]
§ 544.43
Incentives.
The Warden or designee shall establish a system of incentives to encourage an inmate to meet the mandatory ESL program requirements.
§ 544.44
Disciplinary action.
As with any other mandatory programs, such as work assignments, staff may take disciplinary action against an inmate when that inmate refuses to enroll and participate in, or to meet the minimum requirements of the mandatory ESL program.

# Subpart F—Occupational Education Programs

# Source:
68 FR 65170, Nov. 19, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 544.50
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau of Prisons offers eligible inmates the opportunity under its occupational education programs to participate in occupational education courses for the purpose of obtaining marketable skills designed to enhance post-release employment opportunities.
§ 544.51
Procedures.
(a)
Eligibility.
All inmates are eligible to participate in an institution's occupational education program. An eligible inmate must apply through the inmate's unit team for placement consideration. The unit team will determine whether the occupational education course is appropriate for the inmate's apparent needs.
(b)
Special considerations for inmates under orders of deportation, exclusion, or removal:
(1) Generally, inmates under orders of deportation, exclusion, or removal may participate in an institution's occupational education program if Bureau resources permit after meeting the needs of other eligible inmates.
(2) Inmates under orders of deportation, exclusion, or removal who the Attorney General has determined cannot be removed from the United States because the designated country of removal will not accept the inmate's return are exempted from the limitation in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and
may participate in an institution's occupational education in the same manner as other eligible inmates.
§ 544.52
Levels of Occupational Education Programs.
Occupational education programs are offered at the certificate level and the classroom level. Each level may include the following types of training:
(a)
Exploratory Training.
Exploratory training is a study of occupations and industries for the purpose of providing the student with a general knowledge of the occupation and the world of work, rather than specific skill development.
(b)
Marketable Training.
Marketable training provides specific entry-level or advanced job skills. Marketable training may include “live work”, that is, the training would result in a product or service produced by the inmate for actual use by the institution, FPI, another federal agency, or community service project.
(c)
Apprentice Training.
Apprentice training provides an inmate the opportunity to participate in training which prepares the inmate for employment in various trades through structured apprenticeship programs approved at the state and national levels by the Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training, U.S. Department of Labor.
Subpart G [Reserved]

# Subpart H—Literacy Program

# Source:
62 FR 50793, Sept. 26, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 544.70
Purpose and scope.
Except as provided for in § 544.71, an inmate confined in a federal institution who does not have a verified General Educational Development (GED) credential or high school diploma is required to attend an adult literacy program for a minimum of 240 instructional hours or until a GED is achieved, whichever occurs first.
§ 544.71
Exceptions to required literacy program participation.
(a) The following inmates are not required to attend the literacy program:
(1) Pretrial inmates;
(2) Inmates committed for purpose of study and observation under the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 4205(c), 4241(d), or, effective November 1, 1987, 18 U.S.C. 3552(b);
(3) Sentenced deportable aliens;
(4) Inmates determined by staff to be temporarily unable to participate in the literacy program due to special circumstances beyond their control (e.g., due to a medical condition, transfer on writ, on a waiting list for initial placement). Such inmates, however, shall be required to participate when the special circumstances are no longer applicable.
(b) Inmates who have been determined (on the basis of formal diagnostic assessment) to have a documented emotional, mental, or physical individual impediment to learning shall not be required to complete the literacy program beyond those achievement levels indicated as realistic by the formal diagnostic assessment.
(c) Staff shall document in the inmate's education file the specific reasons for not requiring the inmate to participate in, or to complete, the literacy program.
§ 544.72
Incentives.
The Warden shall establish a system of incentives to encourage an inmate to obtain a GED credential.
§ 544.73
Program participation.
(a) The Warden or designee shall assign to an education staff member the responsibility to coordinate the institution's literacy program. Initially, staff shall meet with the inmate for the purpose of enrolling the inmate in the literacy program. Subsequently, staff shall formally interview each inmate involved in the literacy program when necessary for the purpose of determining a progress assignment. Staff shall place documentation of these interviews in the inmate's education file.
(b)(1) For the purposes of 18 U.S.C. 3624, an inmate subject to the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (VCCLEA) or the Prison Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PLRA) shall be deemed to be making satisfactory progress toward earning a GED
credential or high school diploma unless and until the inmate receives a progress assignment confirming that:
(i) The inmate refuses to enroll in the literacy program;
(ii) The inmate has been found to have committed a prohibited act that occurred in a literacy program during the last 240 instructional hours of the inmate's most recent enrollment in the literacy program; or
(iii) The inmate has withdrawn from the literacy program.
(2) When an inmate subject to VCCLEA or PLRA receives a progress assignment indicating that the inmate is not making satisfactory progress, the assignment shall be changed to indicate satisfactory progress only after the inmate is currently and continuously enrolled in a literacy program for a minimum of 240 instructional hours. Any further withdrawal or finding that the inmate has committed a prohibited act in a literacy program during the last 240 instructional hours of the inmate's most recent enrollment in the literacy program shall result in a progress assignment indicating that the inmate is again not making satisfactory progress (see paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section).
(c) At the end of 240 instructional hours, excluding sick time, furloughs, or other absences from scheduled classes, the unit team during scheduled program review sessions shall meet with the inmate to encourage continued participation in the literacy program until the inmate earns a GED credential or high school diploma. At these meetings, the inmate may elect not to continue in the literacy program, and no disciplinary action will be taken. The inmate may not discontinue this program when participation is mandated by statute.
§ 544.74
Work assignment limitations.
These limitations on work assignment appointment and promotion apply to all inmates, including those exempted from required participation in the literacy program by § 544.71.
(a)
Appointment.
(1) An inmate who does not meet the literacy requirement may be assigned to a grade 4 position contingent upon the inmate's continued enrollment in the literacy program.
(2) An inmate ordinarily must show prior attainment of a GED credential or high school diploma in order to be considered for a commissary work assignment above minimum pay level, an institution work assignment above grade 4 compensation, or an industrial work assignment above grade four or in a non-graded incentive pay position.
(3) If labor force needs require, an inmate who does not meet the literacy requirement may be assigned to an industrial non-graded incentive pay position if the inmate is simultaneously enrolled in a literacy or related program. Withdrawal from the literacy program shall result in termination of the assignment. Local Federal Prison Industry (FPI) management may elect to retain the reassigned inmate in an hourly rated grade 4 position.
(b)
Promotion.
An inmate ordinarily must show prior attainment of a GED credential or high school diploma to be promoted above the minimum pay level or grade in a commissary work assignment, an institutional work assignment, or an industrial work assignment. An inmate already in an assignment above the minimum pay grade who had met prior literacy requirements when approved for promotion is eligible for further promotion under the prior standard. Such inmate, however, must meet the current standard if, due to demotion based upon a poor performance appraisal, he or she needs to reapply for a promotion.
(c)
Exceptions.
The Warden may, for good cause, exempt inmates on a case-by-case basis, from the literacy requirements for work assignment appointment and promotion. Staff shall document such exemption in the inmate's education file and central file.
§ 544.75
Disciplinary action.
As with other mandatory programs, such as work assignments, staff may take disciplinary action against an inmate lacking a GED credential or high school diploma if that inmate refuses to enroll in, and to complete, the mandatory 240 instructional hours of the literacy program.

# Subpart I—Education, Training and Leisure-Time Program Standards

# Source:
58 FR 65852, Dec. 16, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 544.80
Purpose and scope.
In consideration of inmate education, occupation, and leisure-time needs, the Bureau of Prisons affords inmates the opportunity to improve their knowledge and skills through academic, occupation and leisure-time activities. All institutions, except satellite camps, detention centers and metropolitan correctional centers, shall operate a full range of activities as outlined in this rule.
§ 544.81
Program goals.
The Warden shall ensure that an inmate with the need, capacity, and sufficient time to serve, has the opportunity to:
(a) Complete an Adult Literacy program leading to a General Educational Development (GED) certificate and/or high school diploma;
(b) Complete one or more levels of English-as-a-Second Language;
(c) Acquire or improve marketable skill through one or more programs of Occupation Education (OE);
(d) Complete one or more Postsecondary Education activities;
(e) Complete one or more Adult Continuing Education activities;
(f) Participate in one or more leisure, fitness, wellness or sport activities;
(g) Participate in a Release Preparation program; and
(h) Participate in Career Counseling. Staff shall encourage each inmate to accept the responsibility to identify any specific education needs, set personal goals, and select activities, programs and/or work experiences which will help to reach those goals.
[58 FR 65852, Dec. 16, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 47795, Sept. 10, 1996]
§ 544.82
General program characteristics.
(a) The Supervisor of Education shall assure that the following minimum criteria are met for the institution's education program set forth in § 544.81.
(1) There is a written curriculum which establishes measurable behavioral objectives and procedures.
(2) There are clear criteria which establish minimum expectations for program completion, as well as provisions for the assessment of student progress.
(3) There are provisions for periodic review of the relevancy and effectiveness of the program.
(4) Unless unusual circumstances (e.g., college credit courses) exist, all programs should allow for open entry and exit, at least on a monthly basis.
(5) The Supervisor of Education may establish other requirements necessary to assure that the stated goals of the program are achieved.
(b) Upon an inmate's completion of a program specified in § 544.81, staff may issue and/or review and file a certificate when it contributes to an inmate's future plans in such a way that it validates the inmate's education and training; supports the inmate's chances of securing employment; improves the inmate's acceptance for advanced education; or enhances the inmate's opportunity for success in any other activity the inmate chooses to pursue. The certificate will confirm that the inmate has completed the requirements to receive a certificate that fits one or a combination of the following categories:
(1) Accredited certificates—high school diplomas and occupation training certificates approved or issued through local school districts, state departments of education, or other recognized accrediting educational organizations;
(2) Postsecondary certificates and transcripts—postsecondary degrees or course certificates approved or issued through a sponsoring accredited educational institution;
(3) General Educational Development tests—programs sponsored by the American Council on Education;
(4) Private certificates—outside agencies, private business and industry, other than those stated in paragraph (b)(1) of this section;
(5) Institutional certificates—approved general education, occupation training, recreation, adult continuing
education and social education certificates, issued to an inmate who completes a program, and when the institution cannot provide a certificate as provided in paragraphs (b) (1) and (4) of this section; or
(6) Transcripts—issued to an inmate who completes general education programs, formal occupation training, on-the-job and apprentice training and work assignments. With the inmate's consent, transcripts may be sent to schools and colleges, business, industries and other agencies.
§ 544.83
Inmate tutors.
Institutions may establish an inmate tutor/aide program. Guidelines shall be developed regarding the training and supervision of inmate tutors/aides where such programs are available.
Subpart J [Reserved]

# Subpart K—Inmate Library Services
§ 544.100
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau of Prisons provides inmates within each of its institutions with library services necessary for educational, cultural, and leisure activity. The Warden shall ensure that the inmate library has a wide variety of reading materials. Library services shall ordinarily be available to all inmates daily, including evenings and weekends, except in detention facilities where service shall be scheduled as frequently as possible to ensure reasonable access.
[46 FR 24900, May 1, 1981]
§ 544.101
Procedures.
(a) The Warden shall assign a staff member (ordinarily the Supervisor of Education) responsibility for the inmate library.
(b) The inmate library shall offer an inmate a variety of reading materials, including, but not limited to, periodicals, newspapers, fiction, non-fiction, and reference books.
(c) Where the population of an institution includes inmates of foreign origin, staff shall attempt to provide reading materials in the inmates' language.
(d) Inmate library services shall be made available to inmates in special housing units.
(e) The Warden or designee may authorize the use of inmates as library assistants.
[46 FR 24900, May 1, 1981]
Pt. 545

# PART 545—WORK AND COMPENSATION
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Inmate Financial Responsibility Program
Sec.
545.10
Purpose and scope.
545.11
Procedures.

# Subpart C—Inmate Work and Performance Pay Program
545.20
Purpose and scope.
545.21
Definitions.
545.22
Institution work and performance pay committee.
545.23
Inmate work/program assignment.
545.24
Inmate work conditions.
545.25
Eligibility for performance pay.
545.26
Performance pay provisions.
545.27
Inmate vacations.
545.28
Achievement awards.
545.29
Special awards.
545.30
Funds due deceased inmates.
545.31
Training.
Subpart D [Reserved]

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 3013, 3571, 3572, 3621, 3622, 3624, 3663, 4001, 4042, 4081, 4082 (Repealed in part as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 4126, 5006-5024 (Repealed October 12, 1984 as to offenses committed after that date), 5039; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Inmate Financial Responsibility Program

# Source:
56 FR 23477, May 21, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 545.10
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau of Prisons encourages each sentenced inmate to meet his or her legitimate financial obligations. As part of the initial classification process, staff will assist the inmate in developing a financial plan for meeting
those obligations, and at subsequent program reviews, staff shall consider the inmate's efforts to fulfill those obligations as indicative of that individual's acceptance and demonstrated level of responsibility. The provisions of this rule apply to all inmates in federal facilities, except: Study and observation cases, pretrial detainees, and inmates in holdover status pending designation.
§ 545.11
Procedures.
When an inmate has a financial obligation, unit staff shall help that inmate develop a financial plan and shall monitor the inmate's progress in meeting that obligation.
(a)
Developing a financial plan.
At initial classification, the unit team shall review an inmate's financial obligations, using all available documentation, including, but not limited to, the Presentence Investigation and the Judgment and Commitment Order(s). The financial plan developed shall be documented and will include the following obligations, ordinarily to be paid in the priority order as listed:
(1) Special Assessments imposed under 18 U.S.C. 3013;
(2) Court-ordered restitution;
(3) Fines and court costs;
(4) State or local court obligations; and
(5) Other federal government obligations.
(b)
Payment.
The inmate is responsible for making satisfactory progress in meeting his/her financial responsibility plan and for providing documentation of these payments to unit staff. Payments may be made from institution resources or non-institution (community) resources. In developing an inmate's financial plan, the unit team shall first subtract from the trust fund account the inmate's minimum payment schedule for UNICOR or non-UNICOR work assignments, set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section. The unit team shall then exclude from its assessment $75.00 a month deposited into the inmate's trust fund account. This $75.00 is excluded to allow the inmate the opportunity to better maintain telephone communication under the Inmate Telephone System (ITS).
(1) Ordinarily, the minimum payment for non-UNICOR and UNICOR grade 5 inmates will be $25.00 per quarter. This minimum payment may exceed $25.00, taking into consideration the inmate's specific obligations, institution resources, and community resources.
(2) Inmates assigned grades 1 through 4 in UNICOR ordinarily will be expected to allot not less than 50% of their monthly pay to the payment process. Any allotment which is less than the 50% minimum must be approved by the Unit Manager. Allotments may also exceed the 50% minimum after considering the individual's specific obligations and resources.
(c)
Monitoring.
Participation and/or progress in the Inmate Financial Responsibility Program will be reviewed each time staff assess an inmate's demonstrated level of responsible behavior.
(d)
Effects of non-participation.
Refusal by an inmate to participate in the financial responsibility program or to comply with the provisions of his financial plan ordinarily shall result in the following:
(1) Where applicable, the Parole Commission will be notified of the inmate's failure to participate;
(2) The inmate will not receive any furlough (other than possibly an emergency or medical furlough);
(3) The inmate will not receive performance pay above the maintenance pay level, or bonus pay, or vacation pay;
(4) The inmate will not be assigned to any work detail outside the secure perimeter of the facility;
(5) The inmate will not be placed in UNICOR. Any inmate assigned to UNICOR who fails to make adequate progress on his/her financial plan will be removed from UNICOR, and once removed, may not be placed on a UNICOR waiting list for six months. Any exceptions to this require approval of the Warden;
(6) The inmate shall be subject to a monthly commissary spending limitation more stringent than the monthly commissary spending limitation set for all inmates. This more stringent commissary spending limitation for IFRP refusees shall be at least $25 per month, excluding purchases of stamps, telephone credits, and, if the inmate is a
common fare participant, Kosher/Halal certified shelf-stable entrees to the extent that such purchases are allowable under pertinent Bureau regulations;
(7) The inmate will be quartered in the lowest housing status (dormitory, double bunking, etc.);
(8) The inmate will not be placed in a community-based program;
(9) The inmate will not receive a release gratuity unless approved by the Warden;
(10) [Reserved]
(11) The inmate will not receive an incentive for participation in residential drug treatment programs.
[56 FR 23477, May 21, 1991, as amended at 59 FR 15825, Apr. 4, 1994; 59 FR 16406, Apr. 6, 1994; 59 FR 53345, Oct. 21, 1994; 60 FR 240, Jan. 3, 1995; 61 FR 91, Jan. 2, 1996; 64 FR 72799, Dec. 28, 1999]

# Subpart C—Inmate Work and Performance Pay Program

# Source:
49 FR 38915, Oct. 1, 1984, unless otherwise noted.
§ 545.20
Purpose and scope.
(a) The Bureau of Prisons operates an inmate work program within its institutions. To the extent practicable, the work program:
(1) Reduces inmate idleness, while allowing the inmate to improve and/or develop useful job skills, work habits, and experiences that will assist in post-release employment; and
(2) Ensures that activities necessary to maintain the day-to-day operation of the institution are completed. Sentenced inmates who are physically and mentally able to work are required to participate in the work program. When approved by the Warden or designee, drug treatment programming, education, or vocational training may be substituted for all or part of the work program.
(b) The Warden may recognize an inmate's work performance or productive participation in specified correctional programs by granting performance pay.
[49 FR 38915, Oct. 1, 1984, as amended at 61 FR 379, Jan. 4, 1996]
§ 545.21
Definitions.
(a)
Physically and mentally able.
For purposes of this rule, this shall include inmates with disabilities who, with or without reasonable accommodation, can perform the essential function of the work assignment.
(b)
Institution work assignment.
A work assignment which contributes to the day-to-day operation of the institution (e.g., carpentry, plumbing, food service).
(c)
Industry assignment.
A Federal Prison Industries (FPI) work assignment.
(d)
Commissary assignment.
A Trust Fund work assignment.
(e)
Full-time work assignment.
A work assignment to which an inmate is assigned for the entire scheduled work day.
(f)
Part-time work assignment.
A work assignment to which an inmate is assigned for only a portion of the scheduled work day. Part-time work assignments are ordinarily made in conjunction with drug treatment programming, education, and/or vocational training programs.
(g)
Medically unassigned.
An inmate who, because of medical restrictions, is unable to be assigned to any work program.
(h)
Light duty work assignment.
A work assignment in which an inmate may, because of physical limitations, temporary or otherwise, only perform limited work functions, e.g., sedentary work, no prolonged standing, no lifting over 25 lbs., etc.
[49 FR 38915, Oct. 1, 1984, as amended at 61 FR 379, Jan. 4, 1996]
§ 545.22
Institution work and performance pay committee.
(a) The Warden at each Bureau of Prisons institution is to establish an Institution Inmate Work and Performance Pay Committee to administer the institution's work and performance pay program. The Committee is to be comprised of an Associate Warden, the Inmate Performance Pay Coordinator, and any other member(s) the Warden considers appropriate.
(b) The Committee is responsible for approving the following aspects of the
institution's inmate work and performance pay program:
(1) Number of inmates on each work detail;
(2) Number of pay grades in each detail;
(3) Job descriptions;
(4) Performance standards;
(5) Budgeting for special act awards; and
(6) Bonus pay/special bonus pay procedures.
§ 545.23
Inmate work/program assignment.
(a) Each sentenced inmate who is physically and mentally able is to be assigned to an institutional, industrial, or commissary work program. Exception shall be made to allow for inmate participation in an education, vocational, or drug abuse treatment program, on either a full or part-time basis, where this involvement is mandated by Bureau policy or statute (for example, the Literacy Program). Where such participation is not required by either policy or statute, exception may be made to allow an inmate to participate in an education, vocational, or drug abuse treatment program rather than work full-time upon the request of the inmate and approval of the Warden or designee.
(b) A pretrial inmate may not be required to work in any assignment or area other than housekeeping tasks in the inmate's own cell and in the community living area, unless the pretrial inmate has signed a waiver of his or her right not to work (see 28 CFR part 551, subpart J).
(c) Medically unassigned inmates may be required, to the extent medically possible, to perform housekeeping tasks in the inmate's own cell and in the community living area.
(d) In making the work and/or program assignment(s), staff shall consider the inmate's capacity to learn, interests, requests, needs, and eligibility, and the availability of the assignment(s). An inmate's assignment shall be made with consideration of the institution's security and operational needs, and should be consistent with the safekeeping of the inmate and protection of the public.
[49 FR 38915, Oct. 1, 1984, as amended at 61 FR 379, Jan. 4, 1996]
§ 545.24
Inmate work conditions.
(a) The scheduled work day for an inmate in a federal institution ordinarily consists of a minimum of seven hours.
(b) An inmate is expected to report to the place of assignment at the required time. An inmate may not leave an assignment without permission.
(c) An inmate, regardless of assignment, is expected to perform all assigned tasks diligently and conscientiously. Disciplinary action may be taken against an inmate who refuses to work, who otherwise evades attendance and performance standards in assigned activities, or who encourages others to do so.
(d) Work, vocational, and education programs are to meet the appropriate minimum standards for health and safety. Safety equipment is to be available where needed.
(e) An inmate is expected to perform the work assignment in a safe manner, using safety equipment as instructed by the work supervisor. In the event of any work related injury, the inmate shall notify the work supervisor so that appropriate action (for example, medical attention, and submission of necessary reports) may be taken.
[49 FR 38915, Oct. 1, 1984, as amended at 56 FR 23478, May 21, 1991; 56 FR 31531, July 10, 1991; 61 FR 379, Jan. 4, 1996]
§ 545.25
Eligibility for performance pay.
(a) An inmate may receive performance pay for accomplishments in one or more of the following areas:
(1) Institution work assignment;
(2) Literacy program (GED) participation;
(3) Apprenticeship training; and
(4) Vocational training courses (approved by the Bureau of Prisons as certified vocational training instruction).
(b) An inmate is eligible for performance pay from the date of work or program assignment. An inmate is eligible to receive performance pay for each month that the inmate's performance justifies such payment.
(c) An inmate who refuses to participate in the financial responsibility program shall not ordinarily receive performance pay above the maintenance pay level, or bonus pay, or vacation pay in accordance with 28 CFR part 545, subpart B.
(d) An inmate who refuses participation, withdraws, is expelled, or otherwise fails attendance requirements of the drug abuse education course or the RDAP is subject to the limitations specified in § 550.51(e) or § 550.53(g) of this chapter.
(e) Inmates receiving performance pay who are found through the disciplinary process (part 541 of this subchapter) to have committed a level 100 or 200 series drug- or alcohol-related prohibited act will automatically have their performance pay reduced to maintenance pay level and will be removed from any assigned work detail outside the secure perimeter of the institution. This reduction to maintenance pay level, and removal from assigned work detail outside the secure perimeter of the institution, will ordinarily remain in effect for one year, unless otherwise authorized by the Warden.
[49 FR 38915, Oct. 1, 1984. Redesignated and amended at 56 FR 23478, May 21, 1991; 61 FR 379, Jan. 4, 1996; 73 FR 39866, July 11, 2008; 74 FR 1897, Jan. 14, 2009]
§ 545.26
Performance pay provisions.
(a) The Warden shall ensure that all institution work assignments have standardized work descriptions. Each inmate work position is assigned one of four pay grade levels. Factors to consider in assigning a grade level to the specific work position include the position's educational and vocational requirements, physical demands, working conditions (exposed to dusts, odors, etc.), and the degree of responsibility held by the inmate worker. The inmate assigned to a specific work position shall sign, and, if requested, receive a copy of, that position description.
(b) In recognition of budgetary constraints and for the effective management of the overall performance pay program, the percentage of inmates assigned to each grade level is approximately as follows (Grade 1 is highest pay):
Grade 1—5% of the institution's allotted inmate work assignments;
Grade 2—15% of the institution's allotted inmate work assignments;
Grade 3—25% of the institution's allotted inmate work assignments;
Grade 4—55% of the institution's allotted inmate work assignments.
(c) An inmate may receive performance pay only for that portion of the month that the inmate was working. Performance pay may not be awarded retroactively.
(d) An inmate is eligible to receive performance pay only for those hours during which the inmate is actually performing satisfactory work or actively participating in an education or vocational training program. Absences from an inmate's scheduled assignment for such reasons as call-outs, visits, sick call, interviews, or making telephone calls shall be deducted from the monthly number of hours worked and will accordingly reduce the amount of pay received by the inmate. Any exception to such reduction in pay must be approved by the Assistant Director, Correctional Programs Division, Central Office.
(e)
Work evaluation.
(1) At the end of each month the work detail/program supervisor shall compute the hours worked by the inmate and the pay to be awarded for that month.
(2) An inmate shall receive performance pay only for those hours during which the inmate is actively participating in a work assignment or an education/vocational program.
(3) The work detail/program supervisor shall rate the inmate's performance in each of several categories on a monthly basis when the inmate's work performance is average or below average or on a quarterly basis when the inmate's work performance is above average. For example, an inmate may be rated in such categories as quality of work, quantity of work, initiative, ability to learn, dependability, response to supervision and instruction, safety and care of equipment, ability to work with others, and overall job proficiency. Any exception to the work performance evaluation procedures cited in this paragraph requires approval of the Assistant Director, Correctional Programs Division, Central
Office. The work detail/program supervisor shall review the evaluation with the inmate. The supervisor shall request that the inmate sign the evaluation form. If the inmate refuses to sign the form, the supervisor shall note this refusal on the evaluation and, if known, the reasons for refusal.
(f)
Bonus pay.
When the supervisor of an inmate worker or program participant believes the inmate has made exceptional accomplishments or appreciably contributed to the work assignment, the supervisor may recommend that the inmate receive a bonus. For example, an inmate who works in excess of the scheduled work day can qualify for bonus pay. Written justification for the bonus request must be forwarded to the Department Head for approval.
(g)
Special bonus pay.
An inmate may receive special bonus pay based on the inmate's exceptional work in a temporary job assignment, provided this assignment has been previously identified by the Warden, and approved by the Regional Director, as critical to the institution. When the supervisor of an inmate worker assigned to this temporary job assignment believes the inmate has performed exceptionally well, the supervisor may recommend that the inmate received a special bonus. Written justification for the special bonus request must be forwarded to the Department Head for approval.
(h) An inmate's performance pay, once earned, becomes vested.
(i) Each inmate in performance pay status shall be notified of monthly earnings.
[49 FR 38915, Oct. 1, 1984. Redesignated and amended at 56 FR 23478, 23479, May 21, 1991; 61 FR 379, Jan. 4, 1996; 63 FR 67560, Dec. 7, 1998]
§ 545.27
Inmate vacations.
(a) An inmate who has worked full-time for 12 consecutive months on an institution work assignment is eligible to take a five-day paid vacation at the inmate's prevailing hourly rate. A recommendation for an inmate to receive vacation credit is made by the inmate's work supervisor, through the Department Head, to the Unit Team, who shall approve the request if the inmate's work performance qualifies for vacation credit.
(b) Staff shall schedule an inmate's vacation so it is compatable with shop production and administrative support requirements.
(c) The Warden or designee may authorize an inmate to accumulate vacation credit when:
(1) The inmate is transferred to another institution for the benefit of the government or because of the inmate's favorable adjustment (custody reduction); or
(2) The inmate is placed in a new work assignment in the institution for the benefit of the government or institution, rather than solely at the inmate's request or because of the inmate's poor performance or adverse behavior.
[49 FR 38915, Oct. 1, 1984. Redesignated and amended at 56 FR 23478, 23479, May 21, 1991]
§ 545.28
Achievement awards.
(a) With prior approval of the Education Department, each inmate who completes the Literacy program, Vocational Training, or related trades classroom work that is part of a certified apprenticeship program may be granted an achievement award from performance pay funds.
(b) With prior approval of the Psychology Services Department, each inmate who is making satisfactory progress or completes a residential drug treatment program may also be granted an achievement award from performance pay funds.
[61 FR 379, Jan. 4, 1996]
§ 545.29
Special awards.
(a) Inmates who perform exceptional services not ordinarily a part of the inmate's regular assignment may be granted a special award regardless of the inmate's work or program status. Examples of actions which may result in the inmate being considered for a special award are the following:
(1) An act of heroism.
(2) Voluntary acceptance and satisfactory performance of an unusually hazardous assignment.
(3) An act which protects the lives of employees or inmates, or the property of the United States. (This does not apply to informants.)
(4) Suggestions which result in substantial improvements or cost-savings in institutional programs or operations.
(5) Other exceptionally meritorious or outstanding services consistent with the general character of the preceding cases.
(b) The special award may be given in the form of a monetary payment in addition to any other award (e.g., extra good time) given.
(c) The Warden of each institution is empowered to approve special awards not exceeding $150. Awards in excess of this amount may not be made unless approved by the Regional Director.
[49 FR 38915, Oct. 1, 1984. Redesignated and amended at 56 FR 23478, 23479, May 21, 1991]
§ 545.30
Funds due deceased inmates.
Funds due a deceased inmate for work performed and not yet paid shall be made to a legal representative of the inmate's estate or in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution of the state of the inmate's domicile.
[49 FR 38915, Oct. 1, 1984. Redesignated and amended at 56 FR 23478, 23479, May 21, 1991]
§ 545.31
Training.
The Warden shall ensure that staff receive training on their roles in, and on the operation of, the work and performance pay program. The Warden shall also ensure that the inmate population is informed of the work and performance pay program, and of the hourly rates paid to inmate workers.
[49 FR 38915, Oct. 1, 1984. Redesignated at 56 FR 23479, May 21, 1991]
Subpart D [Reserved]
Pt. 547

# PART 547—FOOD SERVICE

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 3621, 3622, 3624, 4001, 4042, 4081, 4082 (Repealed in part as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 5006-5024 (Repealed October 12, 1984, as to offenses committed after that date), 5039; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510; 28 CFR 0.95-0.99.
Subparts A-B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Special Food or Meals

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 4001, 4042, 4081, 5015, 5039; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510; 28 CFR 0.95-0.99.
§ 547.20
Policy.
The Bureau of Prisons is responsible for procuring and preparing any food or food ingredients to be served to the institution's inmate population. Except as allowed for in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, the Bureau requires that special food or meals prepared for and/or served to any group(s) of inmates also be served to the institution's entire inmate population. Special food or meals, as identified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, may be prepared and/or served to a specific group of inmates rather than to the entire inmate population of the institution.
(a) Food items sold in the institution's commissary.
(b) Religious dietary practices as authorized in accordance with 28 CFR 548.20.
(c) Medical diet foods.
[61 FR 16374, Apr. 12, 1996]
Pt. 548

# PART 548—RELIGIOUS PROGRAMS
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Religious Beliefs and Practices of Committed Offenders
Sec.
548.10
Purpose and scope.
548.11
Definition.
548.12
Chaplains.
548.13
Schedules and facilities.
548.14
Community involvement (volunteers, contractors).
548.15
Equity.
548.16
Inmate religious property.
548.17
Work assignments.
548.18
Observance of religious holy days.
548.19
Pastoral visits.
548.20
Dietary practices.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 3621, 3622, 3624, 4001, 4042, 4081, 4082 (Repealed in part as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 5006-5024 (Repealed October 12, 1984 as to offenses committed after that date), 5039; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510; 42 U.S.C. 1996; 28 CFR 0.95-0.99.

# Source:
44 FR 38251, June 29, 1979, unless otherwise noted.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Religious Beliefs and Practices of Committed Offenders

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 4001, 4042, 4081, 4082, 5006-5024, 5039; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510; 42 U.S.C. 1996; 28 CFR 0.95-0.99.

# Source:
60 FR 46486, Sept. 6, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 548.10
Purpose and scope.
(a) The Bureau of Prisons provides inmates of all faith groups with reasonable and equitable opportunities to pursue religious beliefs and practices, within the constraints of budgetary limitations and consistent with the security and orderly running of the institution and the Bureau of Prisons.
(b) When considered necessary for the security or good order of the institution, the Warden may limit attendance at or discontinue a religious activity. Opportunities for religious activities are open to the entire inmate population, without regard to race, color, nationality, or ordinarily, creed. The Warden, after consulting with the institution chaplain, may limit participation in a particular religious activity or practice to the members of that religious group. Ordinarily, when the nature of the activity or practice (e.g., religious fasts, wearing of headwear, work proscription, ceremonial meals) indicates a need for such a limitation, only those inmates whose files reflect the pertinent religious preference will be included.
(c) The Bureau of Prisons does not require an inmate to profess a religious belief. An inmate may designate any or no religious preference at his/her initial team screening. By notifying the chaplain in writing, an inmate may request to change this designation at any time, and the change will be effected in a timely fashion.
§ 548.11
Definition.
For purposes of this subpart, the term “religious activity” includes religious diets, services, ceremonies, and meetings.
§ 548.12
Chaplains.
Institution chaplains are responsible for managing religious activities within the institution. Institution chaplains are available upon request to provide pastoral care and counseling to inmates through group programs and individual services. Pastoral care and counseling from representatives in the community are available in accordance with the provisions of §§ 548.14 and 548.19. The chaplain may ask the requesting inmate to provide information regarding specific requested religious activities for the purpose of making an informed decision regarding the request.
[62 FR 44836, Aug. 22, 1997]
§ 548.13
Schedules and facilities.
(a) Under the general supervision of the Warden, chaplains shall schedule and direct the institution's religious activities.
(b) The Warden may relieve an inmate from an institution program or assignment if a religious activity is also scheduled at that time.
(c) Institutions shall have space designated for the conduct of religious activities.
§ 548.14
Community involvement (volunteers, contractors).
(a) The institution's chaplain may contract with representatives of faith groups in the community to provide specific religious services which the chaplain cannot personally deliver due to, ordinarily, religious prescriptions or ecclesiastical constraints to which the chaplain adheres.
(b) The institution's chaplain may secure the services of volunteers to assist inmates in observing their religious beliefs.
(c) The Warden or the Warden's designee (ordinarily the chaplain) may require a recognized representative of the faith group to verify a volunteer's or contractor's religious credentials prior to approving his or her entry into the institution.
§ 548.15
Equity.
No one may disparage the religious beliefs of an inmate, nor coerce or harass an inmate to change religious affiliation. Attendance at all religious activities is voluntary and, unless otherwise specifically determined by the Warden, open to all.
§ 548.16
Inmate religious property.
(a) Inmate religious property includes but is not limited to rosaries and prayer beads, oils, prayer rugs, phylacteries, medicine pouches, and religious medallions. Such items, which become part of an inmate's personal property, are subject to normal considerations of safety and security. If necessary, their religious significance shall be verified by the chaplain prior to the Warden's approval.
(b) An inmate ordinarily shall be allowed to wear or use personal religious items during religious services, ceremonies, and meetings in the chapel, unless the Warden determines that the wearing or use of such items would threaten institution security, safety, or good order. Upon request of the inmate, the Warden may allow the wearing or use of certain religious items throughout the institution, consistent with considerations of security, safety, or good order. The Warden may request the chaplain to obtain direction from representatives of the inmate's faith group or other appropriate sources concerning the religious significance of the items.
(c) An inmate who wishes to have religious books, magazines or periodicals must comply with the general rules of the institution regarding ordering, purchasing, retaining, and accumulating personal property. Religious literature is permitted in accordance with the procedures governing incoming publications. Distribution to inmates of religious literature purchased by or donated to the Bureau of Prisons is contingent upon the chaplain's granting his or her approval.
[60 FR 46486, Sept. 6, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 44836, Aug. 22, 1997]
§ 548.17
Work assignments.
When the religious tenets of an inmate's faith are violated or jeopardized by a particular work assignment, a different work assignment ordinarily shall be made after it is requested in writing by the inmate, and the specific religious tenets have been verified by the chaplain. Maintaining security, safety, and good order in the institution are grounds for denial of such request for a different work assignment.
§ 548.18
Observance of religious holy days.
Consistent with maintaining security, safety, and good order in the institution, the Warden shall endeavor to facilitate the observance of important religious holy days which involve special fasts, dietary regulations, worship, or work proscription. The inmate must submit a written request to the chaplain for time off from work to observe a religious holy day. The Warden may request the chaplain to consult with community representatives of the inmate's faith group and/or other appropriate sources to verify the religious significance of the requested observance. The chaplain will work with requesting inmates to accommodate a proper observance of the holy day. The Warden will ordinarily allow an inmate to take earned vacation days, or to make up for missed work, or to change work assignments in order to facilitate the observance of the religious holy day.
§ 548.19
Pastoral visits.
If requested by an inmate, the chaplain shall facilitate arrangements for pastoral visits by a clergyperson or representative of the inmate's faith.
(a) The chaplain may request an NCIC check and documentation of such clergyperson's or faith group representative's credentials.
(b) Pastoral visits may not be counted as social visits. They will ordinarily take place in the visiting room during regular visiting hours.
§ 548.20
Dietary practices.
(a) The Bureau provides inmates requesting a religious diet reasonable and equitable opportunity to observe their religious dietary practice within the constraints of budget limitations and the security and orderly running of the institution and the Bureau through
a religious diet menu. The inmate will provide a written statement articulating the religious motivation for participation in the religious diet program.
(b) An inmate who has been approved for a religious diet menu must notify the chaplain in writing if the inmate wishes to withdraw from the religious diet. Approval for an inmate's religious diet may be withdrawn by the chaplain if the inmate is documented as being in violation of the terms of the religious diet program to which the inmate has agreed in writing. In order to preserve the integrity and orderly operation of the religious diet program and to prevent fraud, inmates who withdraw (or are removed) may not be immediately reestablished back into the program. The process of reapproving a religious diet for an inmate who voluntarily withdraws or who is removed ordinarily may extend up to thirty days. Repeated withdrawals (voluntary or otherwise), however, may result in inmates being subjected to a waiting period of up to one year.
(c) The chaplain may arrange for inmate religious groups to have one appropriate ceremonial or commemorative meal each year for their members as identified by the religious preference reflected in the inmate's file. An inmate may attend one religious ceremonial meal in a calendar year.
[60 FR 46486, Sept. 6, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 44836, Aug. 22, 1997; 68 FR 74860, Dec. 29, 2003]
Pt. 549

# PART 549—MEDICAL SERVICES

# Subpart A—Infectious Disease Management
Sec.
549.10
Purpose and scope.
549.11
Program responsibility.
549.12
Testing.
549.13
Programming, duty, and housing restrictions.
549.14
Confidentiality of information.
549.15
Infectious disease training and preventive measures.

# Subpart B—Over-The-Counter (OTC) Medications
549.30
Purpose and scope.
549.31
Inmates without funds.

# Subpart C—Psychiatric Evaluation and Treatment
549.40
Purpose and scope.
549.41
Hospitalization in a suitable facility.
549.42
Use of psychiatric medications.
549.43
Transfer for psychiatric or psychological examination.
549.44
Voluntary hospitalization in a suitable facility for psychiatric care or treatment and voluntary administration of psychiatric medication.
549.45
Involuntary hospitalization in a suitable facility for psychiatric care or treatment.
549.46
Procedures for involuntary administration of psychiatric medication.

# Subpart D—Plastic Surgery
549.50
Purpose and scope.
549.51
Approval procedures.
549.52
Informed consent.

# Subpart E—Hunger Strikes, Inmate
549.60
Purpose and scope.
549.61
Definition.
549.62
Initial referral.
549.63
Initial medical evaluation and management.
549.64
Food/liquid intake/output.
549.65
Refusal to accept treatment.
549.66
Release from treatment.

# Subpart F—Fees for Health Care Services
549.70
Purpose and scope.
549.71
Inmates affected.
549.72
Services provided without fees.
549.73
Appealing the fee.
549.74
Inmates without funds.

# Subpart G—Authority To Conduct Autopsies
549.80
Authority to conduct autopsies.

# Subpart H—Civil Commitment of a Sexually Dangerous Person
549.90
Purpose and application.
549.91
Definition of “sexually dangerous person.”
549.92
Definition of “sexually violent conduct.”
549.93
Definition of “child molestation.”
549.94
Definition of “sexually dangerous to others.”
549.95
Determining “serious difficulty in refraining from sexually violent conduct or child molestation if released.”

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 10 U.S.C. 876b; 18 U.S.C. 3621, 3622, 3524, 4001, 4005, 4042, 4045, 4081, 4082 (Repealed in part as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), Chapter 313, 5006-5024 (Repealed October 12,
1984 as to offenses committed after that date), 5039; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510.

# Subpart A—Infectious Disease Management

# Source:
70 FR 29193, May 20, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 549.10
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau will manage infectious diseases in the confined environment of a correctional setting through a comprehensive approach which includes testing, appropriate treatment, prevention, education, and infection control measures.
§ 549.11
Program responsibility.
Each institution's Health Services Administrator (HSA) and Clinical Director (CD) are responsible for the operation of the institution's infectious disease program in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
§ 549.12
Testing.
(a)
Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)
—(1)
Clinically indicated.
The Bureau tests inmates who have sentences of six months or more if health services staff determine, taking into consideration the risk as defined by the Centers for Disease Control guidelines, that the inmate is at risk for HIV infection. If the inmate refuses testing, staff may initiate an incident report for refusing to obey an order.
(2)
Exposure incidents.
The Bureau tests an inmate, regardless of the length of sentence or pretrial status, when there is a well-founded reason to believe that the inmate may have transmitted the HIV infection, whether intentionally or unintentionally, to Bureau employees or other non-inmates who are lawfully present in a Bureau institution. Exposure incident testing does not require the inmate's consent.
(3)
Surveillance Testing.
The Bureau conducts HIV testing for surveillance purposes as needed. If the inmate refuses testing, staff may initiate an incident report for refusing to obey an order.
(4)
Inmate request.
An inmate may request to be tested. The Bureau limits such testing to no more than one per 12-month period unless the Bureau determines that additional testing is warranted.
(5)
Counseling.
Inmates being tested for HIV will receive pre- and post-test counseling, regardless of the test results.
(b)
Tuberculosis (TB).
(1) The Bureau screens each inmate for TB within two calendar days of initial incarceration.
(2) The Bureau conducts screening for each inmate annually as medically indicated.
(3) The Bureau will screen an inmate for TB when health services staff determine that the inmate may be at risk for infection.
(4) An inmate who refuses TB screening may be subject to an incident report for refusing to obey an order. If an inmate refuses skin testing, and there is no contraindication to tuberculin skin testing, then, institution medical staff will test the inmate involuntarily.
(5) The Bureau conducts TB contact investigations following any incident in which inmates or staff may have been exposed to tuberculosis. Inmates will be tested according to paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(c)
Diagnostics.
The Bureau tests an inmate for an infectious or communicable disease when the test is necessary to verify transmission following exposure to bloodborne pathogens or to infectious body fluid. An inmate who refuses diagnostic testing is subject to an incident report for refusing to obey an order.
§ 549.13
Programming, duty, and housing restrictions.
(a) The CD will assess any inmate with an infectious disease for appropriateness for programming, duty, and housing. Inmates with infectious diseases that are transmitted through casual contact will be prohibited from work assignments in any area, until fully evaluated by a health care provider.
(b) Inmates may be limited in programming, duty, and housing when their infectious disease is transmitted through casual contact. The Warden, in consultation with the CD, may exclude inmates, on a case-by-case basis, from
work assignments based upon the security and good order of the institution.
(c) If an inmate tests positive for an infectious disease, that test alone does not constitute sole grounds for disciplinary action. Disciplinary action may be considered when coupled with a secondary action that could lead to transmission of an infectious agent. Inmates testing positive for infectious disease are subject to the same disciplinary policy that applies to all inmates (
see
28 CFR part 541, subpart B). Except as provided for in our disciplinary policy, no special or separate housing units may be established for HIV-positive inmates.
§ 549.14
Confidentiality of information.
Any disclosure of test results or medical information is made in accordance with:
(a) The Privacy Act of 1974, under which the Bureau publishes routine uses of such information in the Department of Justice Privacy Act System of Records Notice entitled “Inmate Physical and Mental Health Record System, JUSTICE/BOP-007”; and
(b) The Correction Officers Health and Safety Act of 1998 (codified at 18 U.S.C. 4014), which provides that test results must be communicated to a person requesting the test, the person tested, and, if the results of the test indicate the presence of HIV, to correctional facility personnel consistent with Bureau policy.
§ 549.15
Infectious disease training and preventive measures.
(a) The HSA will ensure that a qualified health care professional provides training, incorporating a question-and-answer session, about infectious diseases to all newly committed inmates, during Admission and Orientation.
(b) Inmates in work assignments which staff determine to present the potential for occupational exposure to blood or infectious body fluids will receive annual training on prevention of work-related exposures and will be offered vaccination for Hepatitis B.

# Subpart B—Over-The-Counter (OTC) Medications

# Source:
68 FR 47849, Aug. 12, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 549.30
Purpose and scope.
This subpart establishes procedures governing inmate access to Over-The-Counter (OTC) medications for all inmates except those in inpatient status at Federal Medical Centers. Inmates may buy OTC medications which are available at the commissary. Inmates may also obtain OTC medications at sick call if the inmate does not already have the OTC medication and:
(a) Health services staff determine that the inmate has an immediate medical need which must be addressed before his or her regularly scheduled commissary visit; or
(b) The inmate is without funds.
§ 549.31
Inmates without funds.
(a) The Warden must establish procedures to provide up to two OTC medications per week for an inmate without funds. An inmate without funds is an inmate who has not had a trust fund account balance of $6.00 for the past 30 days.
(b) An inmate without funds may obtain additional OTC medications at sick call if health services staff determine that he/she has an immediate medical need which must be addressed before the inmate may again apply for OTC medications under this section.
(c) To prevent abuses of this section (
e.g.,
inmate shows a pattern of depleting his or her commissary funds before requesting OTC medications), the Warden may impose restrictions on the provisions of this section.
[68 FR 47849, Aug. 12, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 53805, Sept. 3, 2004]

# Subpart C—Psychiatric Evaluation and Treatment

# Source:
76 FR 40231, July 8, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 549.40
Purpose and scope.
(a) This subpart describes procedures for voluntary and involuntary psychiatric evaluation, hospitalization,
care, and treatment, in a suitable facility, for persons in Bureau of Prisons (Bureau) custody. These procedures are authorized by 18 U.S.C. Chapter 313 and 18 U.S.C. 4042.
(b) This subpart applies to inmates in Bureau custody, as defined in 28 CFR part 500.
§ 549.41
Hospitalization in a suitable facility.
As used in 18 U.S.C. Chapter 313 and this subpart, “hospitalization in a suitable facility” includes the Bureau's designation of inmates to medical referral centers or correctional institutions that provide the required care or treatment.
§ 549.42
Use of psychiatric medications.
Psychiatric medications will be used only for treatment of diagnosable mental illnesses and disorders, and their symptoms, for which such medication is accepted treatment. Psychiatric medication will be administered only after following the applicable procedures in this subpart.
§ 549.43
Transfer for psychiatric or psychological examination.
The Bureau may transfer an inmate to a suitable facility for psychiatric or psychological examination to determine whether hospitalization in a suitable facility for psychiatric care or treatment is needed.
§ 549.44
Voluntary hospitalization in a suitable facility for psychiatric care or treatment, and voluntary administration of psychiatric medication.
(a)
Hospitalization.
An inmate may be hospitalized in a suitable facility for psychiatric care or treatment after providing informed and voluntary consent when, in the professional medical judgment of qualified health services staff, such care or treatment is required and prescribed.
(b)
Psychiatric medication.
An inmate may also provide informed and voluntary consent to the administration of psychiatric medication that complies with the requirements of § 549.42 of this subpart.
(c)
Voluntary consent.
An inmate's ability to provide informed and voluntary consent for both hospitalization in a suitable facility for psychiatric care or treatment, and administration of psychiatric medications, will be assessed by qualified health services staff and documented in the inmate's medical record. Additionally, the inmate must sign a consent form to accept hospitalization in a suitable facility for psychiatric care or treatment and the administration of psychiatric medications. These forms will be maintained in the inmate's medical record.
§ 549.45
Involuntary hospitalization in a suitable facility for psychiatric care or treatment.
(a)
Hospitalization of inmates pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Chapter 313.
A court determination is necessary for involuntary hospitalization or commitment of inmates pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Chapter 313, who are in need of psychiatric care or treatment, but are unwilling or unable to voluntarily consent.
(b)
Hospitalization of inmates not subject to hospitalization pursuant to 18 U.S.C. chapter 313.
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 4042, the Bureau is authorized to provide for the safekeeping, care, and subsistence, of all persons charged with offenses against the United States, or held as witnesses or otherwise. Accordingly, if an examiner determines pursuant to § 549.43 of this subpart that an inmate not subject to hospitalization pursuant to 18 U.S.C. chapter 313 should be hospitalized for psychiatric care or treatment, and the inmate is unwilling or unable to consent, the Bureau will provide the inmate with an administrative hearing to determine whether hospitalization for psychiatric care or treatment is warranted. The hearing will provide the following procedural safeguards:
(1) The inmate will not be involuntarily administered psychiatric medication before the hearing except in the case of psychiatric emergencies, as defined in § 549.46(b)(1).
(2) The inmate must be provided 24-hours advance written notice of the date, time, place, and purpose, of the hearing, including an explanation of the reasons for the proposal to hospitalize the inmate for psychiatric care or treatment.
(3) The inmate must be informed of the right to appear at the hearing, to present evidence, to have a staff representative, to request witnesses, and to request that witnesses be questioned by the staff representative or by the person conducting the hearing. If the inmate does not request a staff representative, or requests a staff representative with insufficient experience or education, or one who is not reasonably available, the institution mental health division administrator must appoint a qualified staff representative.
(4) The hearing is to be conducted by a psychiatrist other than the attending psychiatrist, and who is not currently involved in the diagnosis or treatment of the inmate.
(5) Witnesses should be called if they are reasonably available and have information relevant to the inmate's mental condition or need for hospitalization. Witnesses who will provide only repetitive information need not be called.
(6) A treating/evaluating psychiatrist/clinician, who has reviewed the case, must be present at the hearing and must present clinical data and background information relative to the inmate's need for hospitalization. Members of the treating/evaluating team may also be called as witnesses at the hearing to provide relevant information.
(7) The psychiatrist conducting the hearing must determine whether involuntary hospitalization is necessary because the inmate is presently suffering from a mental disease or defect for the treatment of which he is in need of custody for care or treatment in a suitable facility.
(8) The psychiatrist must prepare a written report regarding the initial decision. The inmate must be promptly provided a copy of the initial decision report, and informed that he/she may appeal it to the institution's mental health division administrator. The inmate's appeal, which may be handwritten, must be submitted within 24 hours after receipt of the hearing officer's report. Upon request of the inmate, the staff representative will assist the inmate in preparing and submitting the appeal.
(9) If the inmate appeals the initial decision, hospitalization must not occur before the administrator issues a decision on the appeal. The inmate's appeal will ordinarily be reviewed by the administrator or his designee within 24 hours of its submission. The administrator will review the initial decision and ensure that the inmate received all necessary procedural protections, and that the justification for hospitalization is appropriate.
(c)
Psychiatric medication.
Following an inmate's involuntary hospitalization for psychiatric care or treatment as provided in this section, psychiatric medication may be involuntarily administered only after following the administrative procedures provided in § 549.46 of this subpart.
§ 549.46
Procedures for involuntary administration of psychiatric medication.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the Bureau will follow the administrative procedures of paragraph (a) of this section before involuntarily administering psychiatric medication to any inmate.
(a)
Procedures.
When an inmate is unwilling or unable to provide voluntary written informed consent for recommended psychiatric medication, the inmate will be scheduled for an administrative hearing. The hearing will provide the following procedural safeguards:
(1) Unless an exception exists as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the inmate will not be involuntarily administered psychiatric medication before the hearing.
(2) The inmate must be provided 24-hours advance written notice of the date, time, place, and purpose, of the hearing, including an explanation of the reasons for the psychiatric medication proposal.
(3) The inmate must be informed of the right to appear at the hearing, to present evidence, to have a staff representative, to request witnesses, and to request that witnesses be questioned by the staff representative or by the person conducting the hearing. If the
inmate does not request a staff representative, or requests a staff representative with insufficient experience or education, or one who is not reasonably available, the institution mental health division administrator must appoint a qualified staff representative.
(4) The hearing is to be conducted by a psychiatrist other than the attending psychiatrist, and who is not currently involved in the diagnosis or treatment of the inmate.
(5) Witnesses should be called if they are reasonably available and have information relevant to the inmate's mental condition or need for psychiatric medication. Witnesses who will provide only repetitive information need not be called.
(6) A treating/evaluating psychiatrist/clinician, who has reviewed the case, must be present at the hearing and must present clinical data and background information relative to the inmate's need for psychiatric medication. Members of the treating/evaluating team may also be called as witnesses at the hearing to provide relevant information.
(7) The psychiatrist conducting the hearing must determine whether involuntary administration of psychiatric medication is necessary because, as a result of the mental illness or disorder, the inmate is dangerous to self or others, poses a serious threat of damage to property affecting the security or orderly running of the institution, or is gravely disabled (manifested by extreme deterioration in personal functioning).
(8) The psychiatrist must prepare a written report regarding the initial decision. The inmate must be promptly provided a copy of the initial decision report, and informed that he/she may appeal it to the institution's mental health division administrator. The inmate's appeal, which may be handwritten, must be submitted within 24 hours after receipt of the hearing officer's report. Upon request of the inmate, the staff representative will assist the inmate in preparing and submitting the appeal.
(9) If the inmate appeals the initial decision, psychiatric medication must not be administered before the administrator issues a decision on the appeal, unless an exception exists as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. The inmate's appeal will ordinarily be reviewed by the administrator or his designee within 24 hours of its submission. The administrator will review the initial decision and ensure that the inmate received all necessary procedural protections, and that the justification for administering psychiatric medication is appropriate.
(10) If an inmate was afforded an administrative hearing which resulted in the involuntary administration of psychiatric medication, and the inmate subsequently consented to the administration of such medication, and then later revokes his consent, a follow-up hearing will be held before resuming the involuntary administration of psychiatric medication. All such follow-up hearings will fully comply with the procedures outlined in paragraphs (a)(1) through (10) of this section.
(b)
Exceptions.
The Bureau may involuntarily administer psychiatric medication to inmates in the following circumstances without following the procedures outlined in paragraph (a) of this section:
(1)
Psychiatric emergencies.
(i) During a psychiatric emergency, psychiatric medication may be administered only when the medication constitutes an appropriate treatment for the mental illness or disorder and its symptoms, and alternatives (
e.g.,
seclusion or physical restraint) are not available or indicated, or would not be effective. If psychiatric medication is still recommended after the psychiatric emergency, and the emergency criteria no longer exist, it may only be administered after following the procedures in §§ 549.44 or 549.46 of this subpart.
(ii) For purposes of this subpart, a psychiatric emergency exists when a person suffering from a mental illness or disorder creates an immediate threat of:
(A) Bodily harm to self or others;
(B) Serious destruction of property affecting the security or orderly running of the institution; or
(C) Extreme deterioration in personal functioning secondary to the mental illness or disorder.
(2)
Court orders for the purpose of restoring competency to stand trial.
Absent a psychiatric emergency as defined above, § 549.46(a) of this subpart does not apply to the involuntary administration of psychiatric medication for the sole purpose of restoring a person's competency to stand trial. Only a Federal court of competent jurisdiction may order the involuntary administration of psychiatric medication for the sole purpose of restoring a person's competency to stand trial.

# Subpart D—Plastic Surgery

# Source:
61 FR 13322, Mar. 26, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 549.50
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau of Prisons does not ordinarily perform plastic surgery on inmates to correct preexisting disfigurements (including tattoos) on any part of the body. In circumstances where plastic surgery is a component of a presently medically necessary standard of treatment (for example, part of the treatment for facial lacerations or for mastectomies due to cancer) or it is necessary for the good order and security of the institution, the necessary surgery may be performed.
§ 549.51
Approval procedures.
The Clinical Director shall consider individually any request from an inmate or a BOP medical consultant.
(a) In circumstances where plastic surgery is a component of the presently medically necessary standard of treatment, the Clinical Director shall forward the surgery request to the Office of Medical Designations and Transportation for approval.
(b) If the Clinical Director recommends plastic surgery for the good order and security of the institution, the request for plastic surgery authorization will be forwarded to the Warden for initial approval. The Warden will forward the request through the Regional Director to the Medical Director. The Medical Director shall have the final authority to approve or deny this type of plastic surgery request.
(c) If the Clinical Director is unable to determine whether the plastic surgery qualifies as a component of presently medically necessary standard of treatment, the Clinical Director may forward the request to the Medical Director for a final determination in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 549.52
Informed consent.
Approved plastic surgery procedures may not be performed without the informed consent of the inmate involved.

# Subpart E—Hunger Strikes, Inmate

# Source:
45 FR 23365, Apr. 4, 1980, unless otherwise noted.
§ 549.60
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau of Prisons provides guidelines for the medical and administrative management of inmates who engage in hunger strikes. It is the responsibility of the Bureau of Prisons to monitor the health and welfare of individual inmates, and to ensure that procedures are pursued to preserve life.
[45 FR 23365, Apr. 4, 1980, as amended at 59 FR 31883, June 20, 1994]
§ 549.61
Definition.
As defined in this rule, an inmate is on a
hunger strike:
(a) When he or she communicates that fact to staff and is observed by staff to be refraining from eating for a period of time, ordinarily in excess of 72 hours; or
(b) When staff observe the inmate to be refraining from eating for a period in excess of 72 hours. When staff consider it prudent to do so, a referral for medical evaluation may be made without waiting 72 hours.
§ 549.62
Initial referral.
(a) Staff shall refer an inmate who is observed to be on a hunger strike to medical or mental health staff for evaluation and, when appropriate, for treatment.
(b) Medical staff ordinarily shall place the inmate in a medically appropriate locked room for close monitoring.
[59 FR 31883, June 20, 1994]
§ 549.63
Initial medical evaluation and management.
(a) Medical staff shall ordinarily perform the following procedures upon initial referral of an inmate on a hunger strike:
(1) Measure and record height and weight;
(2) Take and record vital signs;
(3) Urinalysis;
(4) Psychological and/or psychiatric evaluation;
(5) General medical evaluation;
(6) Radiographs as clinically indicated;
(7) Laboratory studies as clinically indicated.
(b) Medical staff shall take and record weight and vital signs at least once every 24 hours while the inmate is on a hunger strike. Other procedures identified in paragraph (a) of this section shall be repeated as medically indicated.
(c) When valid medical reasons exist, the physician may modify, discontinue, or expand any of the medical procedures described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(d) When medical staff consider it medically mandatory, an inmate on a hunger strike will be transferred to a Medical Referral Center or to another Bureau institution considered medically appropriate, or to a community hospital.
[45 FR 23365, Apr. 4, 1980, as amended at 59 FR 31883, June 20, 1994]
§ 549.64
Food/liquid intake/output.
(a) Staff shall prepare and deliver to the inmate's room three meals per day or as otherwise authorized by the physician.
(b) Staff shall provide the inmate an adequate supply of drinking water. Other beverages shall also be offered.
(c) Staff shall remove any commissary food items and private food supplies of the inmate while the inmate is on a hunger strike. An inmate may not make commissary food purchases while under hunger strike management.
[45 FR 23365, Apr. 4, 1980, as amended at 59 FR 31883, June 20, 1994]
§ 549.65
Refusal to accept treatment.
(a) When, as a result of inadequate intake or abnormal output, a physician determines that the inmate's life or health will be threatened if treatment is not initiated immediately, the physician shall give consideration to forced medical treatment of the inmate.
(b) Prior to medical treatment being administered against the inmate's will, staff shall make reasonable efforts to convince the inmate to voluntarily accept treatment. Medical risks faced by the inmate if treatment is not accepted shall also be explained to the inmate. Staff shall document their treatment efforts in the medical record of the inmate.
(c) When, after reasonable efforts, or in an emergency preventing such efforts, a medical necessity for immediate treatment of a life or health threatening situation exists, the physician may order that treatment be administered without the consent of the inmate. Staff shall document their treatment efforts in the medical record of the inmate.
(d) Staff shall continue clinical and laboratory monitoring as necessary until the inmate's life or permanent health is no longer threatened.
(e) Staff shall continue medical, psychiatric and/or psychological follow-up as long as necessary.
[45 FR 23365, Apr. 4, 1980, as amended at 59 FR 31883, June 20, 1994]
§ 549.66
Release from treatment.
Only the physician may order that an inmate be released from hunger strike evaluation and treatment. This order shall be documented in the medical record of the inmate.
[59 FR 31883, June 20, 1994]

# Subpart F—Fees for Health Care Services

# Source:
70 FR 43050, July 26, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 549.70
Purpose and scope.
(a) The Bureau of Prisons (Bureau) may, under certain circumstances, charge you, an inmate under our care
and custody, a fee for providing you with health care services.
(b) Generally, if you are an inmate as described in § 549.71, you must pay a fee for health care services of $2.00 per health care visit if you:
(1) Receive health care services in connection with a health care visit that you requested, (except for services described in § 549.72); or
(2) Are found responsible through the Disciplinary Hearing Process to have injured an inmate who, as a result of the injury, requires a health care visit.
§ 549.71
Inmates affected.
This subpart applies to:
(a) Any individual incarcerated in an institution under the Bureau's jurisdiction; or
(b) Any other individual, as designated by the Director, who has been charged with or convicted of an offense against the United States.
§ 549.72
Services provided without fees.
We will not charge a fee for:
(a) Health care services based on staff referrals;
(b) Staff-approved follow-up treatment for a chronic condition;
(c) Preventive health care services;
(d) Emergency services;
(e) Prenatal care;
(f) Diagnosis or treatment of chronic infectious diseases;
(g) Mental health care; or
(h) Substance abuse treatment.
§ 549.73
Appealing the fee.
You may seek review of issues related to health service fees through the Bureau's Administrative Remedy Program (see 28 CFR part 542).
§ 549.74
Inmates without funds.
You will not be charged a health care service fee if you are considered indigent and unable to pay the health care service fee. The Warden may establish procedures to prevent abuse of this provision.

# Subpart G—Authority To Conduct Autopsies
§ 549.80
Authority to conduct autopsies.
(a) The Warden may order an autopsy and related scientific or medical tests to be performed on the body of a deceased inmate of the facility in the event of homicide, suicide, fatal illness or accident, or unexplained death. The autopsy or tests may be ordered in one of these situations only when the Warden determines that the autopsy or test is necessary to detect a crime, maintain discipline, protect the health or safety of other inmates, remedy official misconduct, or defend the United States or its employees from civil liability arising from the administration of the facility.
(1) The authority of the Warden under this section may not be delegated below the level of Acting Warden.
(2) Where the Warden has the authority to order an autopsy under this provision, no non-Bureau of Prisons authorization (e.g., from either the coroner or from the inmate's next-of-kin) is required. A decision on whether to order an autopsy is ordinarily made after consultation with the attending physician, and a determination by the Warden that the autopsy is in accordance with the statutory provision. Once it is determined that an autopsy is appropriate, the Warden shall prepare a written statement authorizing this procedure. The written statement is to include the basis for approval.
(b) In any situation other than as described in paragraph (a) of this section, the Warden may order an autopsy or post-mortem operation, including removal of tissue for transplanting, to be performed on the body of a deceased inmate of the facility with the written consent of a person (e.g., coroner, or next-of-kin, or the decedent's consent in the case of tissue removed for transplanting) authorized to permit the autopsy or post-mortem operation under the law of the State in which the facility is located.
(1) The authority of the Warden under this section may not be delegated below the level of Acting Warden.
(2) When the conducting of an autopsy requires permission of the family or next-of-kin, the following message is to be included in the telegram notifying the family or next-of-kin of the death: “Permission is requested to perform a complete autopsy”. Also inform the family or next-of-kin that they may telegraph the institution
collect
with their response. Where permission is not received from the person (e.g., coroner or next-of-kin) authorized to permit the autopsy or post-mortem operation, an autopsy or post-mortem operation may not be performed under the conditions of this paragraph (b).
(c) In addition to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, each institution also is expected to abide by the following procedures.
(1) Staff shall ensure that the state laws regarding the reporting of deaths are followed.
(2) Time is a critical factor in arranging for an autopsy, as this ordinarily must be performed within 48 hours. While a decision on an autopsy is pending, no action should be taken that will affect the validity of the autopsy results. Therefore, while the body may be released to a funeral home, this should be done only with the written understanding from the funeral home that no preparation for burial, including embalming, should be performed until a final decision is made on the need for an autopsy.
(3) Medical staff shall arrange for the approved autopsy to be performed.
(4) To the extent consistent with the needs of the autopsy or of specific scientific or medical tests, provisions of state and local laws protecting religious beliefs with respect to such autopsies are to be observed.
[52 FR 48068, Dec. 17, 1987]

# Subpart H—Civil Commitment of a Sexually Dangerous Person

# Source:
73 FR 70279, Nov. 20, 2008, unless otherwise noted.
§ 549.90
Purpose and application.
(a) This subpart provides definitions and standards for review of persons for certification to federal district courts as sexually dangerous persons, as authorized by title 18 U.S.C. Chapter 313, by Bureau of Prisons staff or contractors (collectively referred to in this Part as “the Bureau”).
(b) This subpart applies to persons in Bureau custody, including those:
(1) Under a term of imprisonment;
(2) For whom all criminal charges have been dismissed solely for reasons relating to the person's mental condition; or
(3) In Bureau custody pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 4241(d).
(c) The Bureau may certify that a person in Bureau custody is a sexually dangerous person when review under this subpart provides reasonable cause to believe that the person is a sexually dangerous person. In determining whether a person is a sexually dangerous person and should be so certified, the Bureau will consider any available information in its possession and may transfer the person to a suitable facility for psychological examination in order to obtain information for this purpose.
§ 549.91
Definition of “sexually dangerous person.”
For purposes of this subpart, a “sexually dangerous person” is a person:
(a) Who has engaged or attempted to engage in:
(1) Sexually violent conduct; or
(2) Child molestation; and
(b) Has been assessed as sexually dangerous to others by a Bureau mental health professional.
§ 549.92
Definition of “sexually violent conduct.”
For purposes of this subpart, “sexually violent conduct” includes any unlawful conduct of a sexual nature with another person (“the victim”) that involves:
(a) The use or threatened use of force against the victim;
(b) Threatening or placing the victim in fear that the victim, or any other person, will be harmed;
(c) Rendering the victim unconscious and thereby engaging in conduct of a sexual nature with the victim;
(d) Administering to the victim, by force or threat of force, or without the knowledge or permission of the victim, a drug, intoxicant, or other similar
substance, and thereby substantially impairing the ability of the victim to appraise or control conduct; or
(e) Engaging in such conduct with a victim who is incapable of appraising the nature of the conduct, or physically or mentally incapable of declining participation in, or communicating unwillingness to engage in, that conduct.
§ 549.93
Definition of “child molestation.”
For purposes of this subpart, “child molestation” includes any unlawful conduct of a sexual nature with, or sexual exploitation of, a person under the age of 18 years.
§ 549.94
Definition of “sexually dangerous to others.”
For purposes of this subpart, “sexually dangerous to others” means that a person suffers from a serious mental illness, abnormality, or disorder as a result of which he or she would have serious difficulty in refraining from sexually violent conduct or child molestation if released.
§ 549.95
Determining “serious difficulty in refraining from sexually violent conduct or child molestation if released.”
In determining whether a person will have “serious difficulty in refraining from sexually violent conduct or child molestation if released,” Bureau mental health professionals may consider, but are not limited to, evidence:
(a) Of the person's repeated contact, or attempted contact, with one or more victims of sexually violent conduct or child molestation;
(b) Of the person's denial of or inability to appreciate the wrongfulness, harmfulness, or likely consequences of engaging or attempting to engage in sexually violent conduct or child molestation;
(c) Established through interviewing and testing of the person or through other risk assessment tools that are relied upon by mental health professionals;
(d) Established by forensic indicators of inability to control conduct, such as:
(1) Offending while under supervision;
(2) Engaging in offense(s) when likely to get caught;
(3) Statement(s) of intent to re-offend; or
(4) Admission of inability to control behavior; or
(e) Indicating successful completion of, or failure to successfully complete, a sex offender treatment program.
Pt. 550

# PART 550—DRUG PROGRAMS
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Alcohol Testing
Sec.
550.10
Purpose and scope.
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Urine Surveillance
550.30
Purpose and scope.
550.31
Procedures.

# Subpart E—Drug Services (Urine Surveillance and Counseling for Sentenced Inmates in Contract CTCs)
550.40
Purpose and scope.
550.41
Urine surveillance.
550.42
Procedures for urine surveillance.
550.43
Drug counseling.
550.44
Procedures for arranging drug counseling.

# Subpart F—Drug Abuse Treatment Program
550.50
Purpose and scope.
550.51
Drug abuse education course.
550.52
Non-residential drug abuse treatment services.
550.53
Residential Drug Abuse Treatment Program (RDAP).
550.54
Incentives for RDAP participation.
550.55
Eligibility for early release.
550.56
Community Treatment Services (CTS).
550.57
Inmate appeals.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 3521-3528, 3621, 3622, 3624, 4001, 4042, 4046, 4081, 4082 (Repealed in part as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 5006-5024 (Repealed October 12, 1984 as to offenses committed after that date), 5039; 21 U.S.C. 848; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510; Title V, Pub. L. 91-452, 84 Stat. 933 (18 U.S.C. Chapter 223).
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Alcohol Testing
§ 550.10
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau of Prisons maintains a surveillance program in order to deter and to detect the illegal introduction or use of alcohol in its institutions. In an effort to reduce the introduction or use of alcohol, the Warden shall establish procedures for monitoring and testing individual inmates or groups of inmates who are known or suspected to be users of alcohol, or who are considered high risks based on behavior observed or on information received by staff.
(a) Staff may prepare a disciplinary report on an inmate who shows a positive substantiated test result for alcohol.
(b) Staff may initiate disciplinary action against an inmate who refuses to submit to an alcohol test.
[45 FR 33940, May 20, 1980]
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Urine Surveillance

# Source:
62 FR 45292, Aug. 26, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 550.30
Purpose and scope.
The Warden shall establish programs of urine testing for drug use, to monitor specific groups or individual inmates who are considered as high risk for drug use, such as those involved in community activities, those with a history of drug use, and those inmates specifically suspected of drug use. Testing shall be performed with frequency determined by the Warden on at least 50 percent of those inmates who are involved in community activities. In addition, staff shall randomly sample each institution's inmate population during each month to test for drug use.
§ 550.31
Procedures.
(a) Staff of the same sex as the inmate tested shall directly supervise the giving of the urine sample. If an inmate is unwilling to provide a urine sample within two hours of a request for it, staff ordinarily shall file an incident report. No waiting period or extra time need be allowed for an inmate who directly and specifically refuses to provide a urine sample. To eliminate the possibility of diluted or adulterated samples, staff shall keep the inmate under direct visual supervision during this two-hour period, or until a complete sample is furnished. To assist the inmate in giving the sample, staff shall offer the inmate eight ounces of water at the beginning of the two-hour time period. An inmate is presumed to be unwilling if the inmate fails to provide a urine sample within the allotted time period. An inmate may rebut this presumption during the disciplinary process.
(b) Institution staff shall determine whether a justifiable reason exists, (e.g., use of prescribed medication) for any positive urine test result. If the inmate's urine test shows a positive test result for the presence of drugs which cannot be justified, staff shall file an incident report.

# Subpart E—Drug Services (Urine Surveillance and Counseling for Sentenced Inmates in Contract CTCs)

# Source:
48 FR 24624, June 1, 1983, unless otherwise noted.
§ 550.40
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau of Prisons requires that an inmate who is serving a sentence in a contract community treatment center (CTC) participate in a program of urine testing for drug use. An inmate who is serving a sentence in a contract CTC, and who has drug aftercare as a condition of release also shall receive drug counseling during the inmate's stay at the contract CTC.
§ 550.41
Urine surveillance.
A program of urine testing for drug use shall be established in contract CTCs.
(a) Urine surveillance shall be conducted on all inmates serving their sentence in a contract CTC:
(1) Who have drug aftercare as a condition of release;
(2) Who have a known history of drug abuse; or
(3) Who are suspected of using drugs.
Center staff shall collect a minimum of six samples per month from an inmate who meets one or more of the criteria listed in paragraphs (a) (1) through (3) of this section.
(b) The Center Director shall establish a schedule for random collection for all other sentenced inmates not identified in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 550.42
Procedures for urine surveillance.
(a) Contractor authorized personnel of the same sex as the inmate must witness collection of the inmate's urine sample. Inmates may not be involved in the collection, recording, mailing, or processing of the test results.
(b) If an inmate fails to provide a urine sample within two hours of a request for it, center staff may file a disciplinary report. To eliminate the possibility of diluted or adulterated samples, center staff shall keep the inmate under direct supervision during this two-hour period.
(c) Center staff shall have each positive urine test validated to substantiate the positive result. Center staff shall file a disciplinary report if the inmate's urine test shows a positive result for the presence of drugs which the inmate cannot satisfactorily justify to center staff.
(d) The results of disciplinary hearings and a copy of positive urine testing results which the inmate cannot satisfactorily justify to center staff shall be sent to the appropriate Regional U.S. Parole Commission Office, the Community Programs Manager (CPM), and the U.S. Probation Office.
§ 550.43
Drug counseling.
(a) Drug counseling shall be provided to sentenced inmates in contract community treatment centers who have drug aftercare as a condition of release.
(b) Counseling shall include a minimum of a 30-minute session each week, provided by qualified staff.
(c) Center staff shall document in the inmate's file the date and time of each counseling session. The counselor must prepare a monthly summary of each inmate's progress. This report shall be placed in the inmate's file.
§ 550.44
Procedures for arranging drug counseling.
