(2) All receipts of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section to or on behalf of a person in Iran, or in circumstances in which the benefit is otherwise received in Iran, other than those described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, are authorized, except that nothing in this section authorizes the debiting of any blocked account or the transfer of any blocked property.
(e) This section does not authorize any transaction by an entity owned or controlled by a United States person and established or maintained outside the United States otherwise prohibited by § 560.215 if the transaction would be prohibited by any other part of this chapter V if engaged in by a U.S. person or in the United States.
[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 75849, Dec. 26, 2012]
§ 560.526
[Reserved]
§ 560.527
Rescheduling existing loans.
Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis for rescheduling loans or otherwise extending the maturities of existing loans, and for charging fees or interest at commercially reasonable rates, in connection therewith, provided that no new funds or credits are thereby transferred or extended to Iran or the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211.
§ 560.528
Aircraft safety.
Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis for the exportation or reexportation of goods, services, and technology to ensure the safety of civil aviation and safe operation of U.S.-origin commercial passenger aircraft.
[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 88 FR 25492, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 560.529
Bunkering and emergency repairs.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, goods or services provided in the United States to a non-Iranian carrier transporting passengers or goods to or from Iran are permissible if they are:
(1) Bunkers or bunkering services;
(2) Supplied or performed in the course of emergency repairs; or
(3) Supplied or performed under circumstances which could not be anticipated prior to the carrier's departure for the United States.
(b) This section does not authorize the provision of goods or services in connection with the transport of any goods to or from the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211.
§ 560.530
Commercial sales, exportation, and reexportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, and certain related software and services.
(a)(1)
One-year license requirement.
(i) The exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, and
medical devices that are not covered by the general licenses in paragraphs (a)(2) through (4) of this section (as set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section) to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing, shall only be made pursuant to a one-year specific license issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) for contracts entered into during the one year period of the license and shipped within the 12-month period beginning on the date of the signing of the contract. No specific license will be granted for the exportation or reexportation of the items set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section to any entity or individual in Iran promoting international terrorism, to any individual or entity designated pursuant to Executive Order 12947 (60 FR 5079, 3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 356), Executive Order 13224 (66 FR 49079, 3 CFR, 2001 Comp., p. 786), or Public Law 104-132, to any narcotics trafficking entity designated pursuant to Executive Order 12978 of October 21, 1995 (60 FR 54579, 3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 415) or the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act (21 U.S.C. 1901-1908), or to any foreign organization, group, or persons subject to any restriction for its or their involvement in weapons of mass destruction or missile proliferation. Executory contracts entered into pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section prior to the issuance of a one-year license described in this paragraph shall be deemed to have been signed on the date of issuance of that one-year license (and, therefore, the exporter is authorized to make shipments under that contract within the 12-month period beginning on the date of issuance of the one-year license).
(ii) For the purposes of this part, “agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices that are not covered by the general licenses in paragraphs (a)(2) through (4) of this section” are:
(A) The excluded agricultural commodities specified in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section;
(B) The excluded medicines specified in paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section;
(C) The excluded medical devices specified in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section; and
(D) Agricultural commodities (as defined in paragraph (e)(1) of this section), medicine (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section), and medical devices (as defined in paragraph (e)(3) of this section) to military, intelligence, or law enforcement purchasers or importers.
(2)(i)
General license for the exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities.
Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section, the exportation or reexportation by a covered person (as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section) of agricultural commodities (as defined in paragraph (e)(1) of this section) (including bulk agricultural commodities listed in appendix B to this part) to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing, and the conduct of related transactions, including, but not limited to, the making of shipping and cargo inspection arrangements, the obtaining of insurance, the arrangement of financing and payment, shipping of the goods, receipt of payment, and the entry into contracts (including executory contracts), are hereby authorized, provided that, unless otherwise authorized by specific license, payment terms and financing for sales pursuant to this general license are limited to, and consistent with, those authorized by § 560.532 of this part; and further provided that all such exports and reexports are shipped within the 12-month period beginning on the date of the signing of the contract for export or reexport.
(ii)
Excluded agricultural commodities.
Paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section does not authorize the exportation or reexportation of the following items: Castor beans, castor bean seeds, certified pathogen-free eggs (unfertilized or fertilized), dried egg albumin, live animals (excluding live cattle, shrimp, and shrimp eggs), embryos (excluding cattle embryos), Rosary/Jequirity peas, non-food-grade gelatin powder, peptones and their derivatives, super absorbent polymers, western red cedar, or all fertilizers.
(iii)
Excluded persons.
Paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section does not authorize the exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities to military, intelligence, or law enforcement purchasers or importers.
(iv)
General license for related training.
The provision by a covered person (as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section) of training necessary and ordinarily incident to the safe and effective use of agricultural commodities exported or reexported pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in a third country purchasing such goods specifically for resale to any of the foregoing is authorized, provided that:
(A) Unless otherwise authorized by specific license, payment terms and financing for sales pursuant to this general license are limited to, and consistent with, those authorized by § 560.532;
(B) Any technology released pursuant to this authorization is designated as EAR99; and
(C) Such training is not provided to any military, intelligence, or law enforcement entity, or any official or agent thereof.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(2) of § 560.530:
Consistent with section 906(a)(1) of the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7205), each year OFAC will determine whether to revoke this general license. Unless revoked, the general license will remain in effect.
(3)(i)
General license for the exportation or reexportation of medicine and medical devices.
Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii) through (iv) of this section, the exportation or reexportation by a covered person (as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section) of medicine (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section) and medical devices (as defined in paragraph (e)(3) of this section) to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing, and the conduct of related transactions, including the making of shipping and cargo inspection arrangements, obtaining of insurance, arrangement of financing and payment, shipping of the goods, receipt of payment, and entry into contracts (including executory contracts), are hereby authorized, provided that, unless otherwise authorized by specific license, payment terms and financing for sales pursuant to this general license are limited to, and consistent with, those authorized by § 560.532; and further provided that all such exports or reexports are shipped within the 12-month period beginning on the date of the signing of the contract for export or reexport.
(ii)
Excluded medical devices.
Paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section does not authorize the exportation or reexportation of medical devices on the List of Medical Devices Requiring Specific Authorization, which is maintained on OFAC's Web site (
www.treasury.gov/ofac
) on the Iran Sanctions page.
(iii)
Excluded medicines.
Paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section does not authorize the exportation or reexportation of the following medicines: non-NSAID analgesics, cholinergics, anticholinergics, opioids, narcotics, benzodiazapenes, and bioactive peptides.
(iv)
Excluded persons.
Paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section does not authorize the exportation or reexportation of medicine or medical devices to military, intelligence, or law enforcement purchasers or importers.
(v)
General license for related training.
The provision by a covered person (as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section) of training necessary and ordinarily incident to the safe and effective use of medicine and medical devices exported or reexported pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in a third country purchasing such goods specifically for resale to any of the foregoing is authorized, provided that:
(A) Unless otherwise authorized by specific license, payment terms and financing for sales pursuant to this general license are limited to, and consistent with, those authorized by § 560.532;
(B) Any technology released pursuant to this authorization is designated as EAR99; and
(C) Such training is not provided to any military, intelligence, or law enforcement entity, or any official or agent thereof.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(3) of § 560.530:
Consistent with section 906(a)(1) of the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7205), each year, OFAC will determine whether to revoke this general license. Unless revoked, the general license will remain in effect.
(4)
General license for the exportation or reexportation of replacement parts for certain medical devices.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section, the exportation or reexportation by a covered person (as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section) of replacement parts to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing, for medical devices (as defined in paragraph (e)(3) of this section) exported or reexported pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(3)(i) of this section, and the conduct of related transactions, including the making of shipping and cargo inspection arrangements, obtaining of insurance, arrangement of financing and payment, shipping of the goods, receipt of payment, and entry into contracts (including executory contracts), are hereby authorized, provided that, unless otherwise authorized by specific license, payment terms and financing for sales pursuant to this general license are limited to, and consistent with, those authorized by § 560.532; and further provided that:
(A) Such replacement parts are designated as EAR99, or, in the case of replacement parts that are not subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730
through 774
(EAR), would be designated as EAR99 if they were located in the United States;
(B) Such replacement parts are exported or reexported to replace a broken or nonoperational component of a medical device that previously was exported or reexported pursuant to paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, or the exportation or reexportation of such replacements parts is necessary and ordinarily incident to the proper preventative maintenance of such a medical device;
(C) The number of replacement parts that are exported or reexported and stored in Iran does not exceed the number of corresponding operational parts currently in use in relevant medical devices in Iran; and
(D) The broken or non-operational replacement parts that are being replaced are promptly exported, reexported, or otherwise provided to a non-Iranian entity located outside of Iran selected by the supplier of the replacement parts.
(ii)
Excluded persons.
Paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section does not authorize the exportation or reexportation of replacement parts for medical devices to military, intelligence, or law enforcement purchasers or importers.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(4) of § 560.530:
Consistent with section 906(a)(1) of the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7205), each year, OFAC will determine whether to revoke this general license. Unless revoked, the general license will remain in effect.
(5)
General license for services and software necessary for the operation, maintenance, and repair of medical devices
—(i)
Operational software.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(5)(iv) of this section, the exportation or reexportation by a covered person (as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section) to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in a third country purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing, of software necessary for the installation and operation of medical devices or replacement parts exported or reexported pursuant to this section, and the conduct of related transactions, are hereby authorized, provided that such software is designated as EAR99, or in the case of software that is not subject to the EAR, would be designated as EAR99 if it were located in the United States, and further provided that, unless otherwise authorized by specific license, payment terms and financing for sales pursuant to this general license are limited to, and consistent with, those authorized by § 560.532.
(ii)
Software updates.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(5)(iv) of this section, the exportation or reexportation
by a covered person (as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section) to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in a third country purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing, of software intended for and limited to the provision of safety and service updates and the correction of system or operational errors in medical devices, replacement parts, and associated software that previously were exported, reexported, or provided pursuant to this part, and the conduct of related transactions, are hereby authorized, provided that such software is designated as EAR99, or in the case of software that is not subject to the EAR, would be designated as EAR99 if it were located in the United States, and further provided that, unless otherwise authorized by specific license, payment terms and financing for sales pursuant to this general license are limited to, and consistent with, those authorized by § 560.532. Such software updates may be exported or reexported only to the same end user to whom the original software was exported or reexported.
(iii)
Maintenance and Repair Services.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(5)(iv) of this section, the exportation or reexportation by a covered person (as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section) to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in a third country purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing, of services necessary to maintain and repair medical devices that previously were exported or reexported pursuant to this section, including inspection, testing, calibration, or repair services to ensure patient safety or effective operation, and the conduct of related transactions, are hereby authorized, provided that such services do not substantively alter the functional capacities of the medical device as originally authorized for export or reexport, and further provided that, unless otherwise authorized by specific license, payment terms and financing for sales pursuant to this general license are limited to, and consistent with, those authorized by § 560.532.
(iv)
Excluded persons.
Paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section do not authorize the exportation or reexportation of software, software updates, or maintenance and repair services for medical devices to military, intelligence, or law enforcement purchasers or importers.
(6)(i)
General license for the importation of certain U.S.-origin agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section, the importation into the United States of U.S.-origin agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices, including parts, components, or accessories thereof, that previously were exported or reexported pursuant to the authorizations in this section and that are broken, defective, or non-operational, or are connected to product recalls, adverse events, or other safety concerns, and the conduct of related transactions, are hereby authorized.
(ii)
Excluded persons.
Paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section does not authorize the importation into the United States of U.S.-origin agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices that previously were exported or reexported pursuant to the authorizations in this section as broken, defective, or non-operational, or in connection with product recalls, adverse events, or other safety concerns, from military, intelligence, or law enforcement purchasers or importers.
(b)
General license for arrangement of exportation and reexportation of covered products that require a specific license.
(1) With respect to sales authorized pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the making of shipping arrangements, cargo inspections, obtaining of insurance, and arrangement of financing (consistent with § 560.532) for the exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices that are not covered by the general licenses in paragraphs (a)(2) through (4) of this section (as set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section) to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing, are authorized.
(2) Entry into executory contracts (including executory pro forma invoices, agreements in principle, or executory offers capable of acceptance
such as bids in response to public tenders) for the exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices that are not covered by the general licenses in paragraphs (a)(2) through (4) of this section (as set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section) to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing, is authorized, provided that the performance of an executory contract is expressly made contingent upon the prior issuance of a one-year specific license described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.
(c)
Instructions for obtaining one-year licenses.
In order to obtain the one-year specific license described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the exporter must provide to OFAC:
(1) The applicant's full legal name (and, if the applicant is a business entity, the state or jurisdiction of incorporation and principal place of business);
(2) The applicant's mailing and street address (and, so that OFAC may reach a responsible point of contact, the applicant should also include the name of the individual(s) responsible for the application and related commercial transactions, along with their telephone and fax numbers and, if available, email addresses);
(3) The names, mailing addresses, and, if available, fax and telephone numbers and email addresses of all parties with an interest in the transaction. If the goods are being exported or reexported to a purchasing agent in Iran, the exporter must identify the agent's principals at the wholesale level for whom the purchase is being made. If the goods are being exported or reexported to an individual, the exporter must identify any organizations or entities with which the individual is affiliated that have an interest in the transaction;
(4) A description of all items to be exported or reexported pursuant to the requested one-year license, including a statement that the items are designated as EAR99, or would be designated as EAR99 if they were located in the United States, and, if necessary, documentation sufficient to verify that the items to be exported or reexported are designated as EAR99, or would be designated as EAR99 if they were located in the United States, and do not fall within any of the limitations contained in paragraph (d) of this section; and
(5) For items subject to the EAR, an Official Commodity Classification of EAR99 issued by the Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS), certifying that the product is designated as EAR99, is required to be submitted to OFAC with the request for a license authorizing the exportation or reexportation of all fertilizers, live horses, western red cedar, or the excluded medical devices specified in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section.
See
15 CFR 748.3 for instructions for obtaining an Official Commodity Classification of EAR99 from BIS.
(d)
Limitations.
(1) Nothing in this section or in any general or specific license set forth in or issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section relieves the exporter from compliance with the export license application requirements of another Federal agency.
(2) Nothing in this section or in any general or specific license set forth in or issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section authorizes the exportation or reexportation of any agricultural commodity, medicine, or medical device controlled on the United States Munitions List established under section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778); controlled on any control list established under the Export Administration Act of 1979 or any successor statute (50 U.S.C. App. 2401
et seq.
); or used to facilitate the development or production of a chemical or biological weapon or weapon of mass destruction.
(3) Nothing in this section or in any general or specific license set forth in or issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section affects prohibitions on the sale or supply of U.S. technology or software used to manufacture agricultural commodities, medicine, or medical devices, such as technology to design or produce biotechnological items or medical devices.
(4) Nothing in this section or in any general or specific license set forth in or issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of
this section affects U.S. nonproliferation export controls, including the end-user and end-use controls maintained under part 744 of the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR part 744.
(5) Nothing in this section authorizes any transaction or dealing with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked under, or who is designated or otherwise subject to any sanctions under, the terrorism, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, or narcotics trafficking programs administered by OFAC, 31 CFR parts 536, 544, 594, 595, 597, and 598, or with any foreign organization, group, or person subject to any restriction for its involvement in weapons of mass destruction or missile proliferation, or involving property blocked pursuant to this chapter or any other activity prohibited by this chapter not otherwise authorized in or pursuant to this part.
(6) Nothing in this section or in any general or specific license set forth in or issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section authorizes the exportation or reexportation of any agricultural commodity, medicine, or medical device that is not designated as EAR99 or, in the case of any agricultural commodity, medicine, or medical device not subject to the EAR, would not be designated as EAR99 if it were located in the United States.
(e)
Covered items.
For the purposes of this part, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined below.
(1)
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this part, agricultural commodities are:
(i) In the case of products subject to the EAR, 15 CFR part 774, products that are designated as EAR99, and, in the case of products not subject to the EAR, products that would be designated as EAR99 under the EAR if they were located in the United States, in each case that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) In the case of products subject to the EAR, products that are designated as EAR99, and in the case of products not subject to the EAR, products that would be designated as EAR99 if they were located in the United States, in each case that are intended for ultimate use in Iran as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2)
Medicine.
For the purposes of this part,
medicine
is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321) and that, in the case of an item subject to the EAR, is designated as EAR99 or, in the case of an item not subject to the EAR, that would be designated as EAR99, if it were located in the United States.

# Note to § 560.530(
e

# )(2):
The Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security provides a list on its Web site of medicines that are not designated as EAR99 and therefore not eligible for any general or specific license under this section.
(3)
Medical device.
For the purposes of this part, a
medical device
is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321) and that, in the case of an item subject to the EAR, is designated as EAR99, or in the case of an item not subject to the EAR, that would be designated as EAR99 if it were located in the United States.
(4)
Covered person.
For purposes of this part, a
covered person
is, with respect to the exportation or reexportation of items subject to the EAR, a U.S. person or a non-U.S. person, and for purposes of items not subject to the EAR, a U.S. person, wherever located, or an entity owned or controlled by a U.S. person and established or maintained outside the United States.
(f)
Excluded items.
(1) For the purposes of this part, agricultural commodities do not include furniture made from wood; clothing manufactured from plant or animal materials; agricultural equipment (whether hand
tools or motorized equipment); pesticides, insecticides, or herbicides; or cosmetics (unless derived entirely from plant materials).
(2) For the purposes of this part, the term
medicine
does not include cosmetics.
(g)
Excluded transactions
by U.S.
-
owned or
-
controlled foreign
entities.
Nothing in this section or in any general license set forth in or issued pursuant to this section authorizes any transaction by an entity owned or controlled by a United States person and established or maintained outside the United States otherwise prohibited by § 560.215 if the transaction would be prohibited by any other part of this chapter V if engaged in by a U.S. person or in the United States.
[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 75849, Dec. 26, 2012; 79 FR 18993, Apr. 7, 2014; 81 FR 94257, Dec. 23, 2016]
§ 560.531
[Reserved]
§ 560.532
Payment for and financing of exports and reexports of agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices, and certain related software and services.
(a)
General license for payment terms.
The following payment terms are authorized for sales pursuant to § 560.530(a):
(1) Payment of cash in advance;
(2) Sales on open account, provided that the account receivable may not be transferred by the person extending the credit;
(3) Financing by third-country financial institutions that are not United States persons, entities owned or controlled by United States persons and established or maintained outside the United States, Iranian financial institutions, or the Government of Iran. Such financing may be confirmed or advised by U.S. financial institutions and by financial institutions that are entities owned or controlled by United States persons and established or maintained outside the United States; or
(4) Letter of credit issued by an Iranian financial institution whose property and interests in property are blocked solely pursuant to this part. Such letter of credit must be initially advised, confirmed, or otherwise dealt in by a third-country financial institution that is not a United States person, an entity owned or controlled by a United States person and established or maintained outside the United States, an Iranian financial institution, or the Government of Iran before it is advised, confirmed, or dealt in by a U.S. financial institution or a financial institution that is an entity owned or controlled by a United States person and established or maintained outside the United States.
(b)
Specific licenses for alternate payment terms.
Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis for payment terms and trade financing not authorized by the general license in paragraph (a) of this section for sales pursuant to § 560.530(a).
(c)(1)
No debits to blocked accounts.
Nothing in this section authorizes payment terms or trade financing involving a debit to an account blocked pursuant to this part.
(2)
No debits or credits to Iranian accounts on the books of U.S. depository institutions.
Nothing in this section authorizes payment terms or trade financing involving debits or credits to Iranian accounts, as defined in § 560.320.
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, no commercial exportation to Iran may be made with United States Government assistance, including United States foreign assistance, United States export assistance, and any United States credit or guarantees absent a Presidential waiver.
(e) Nothing in this section authorizes any transaction by an entity owned or controlled by a United States person and established or maintained outside the United States otherwise prohibited by § 560.215 if the transaction would be prohibited by any other part of this chapter V if engaged in by a U.S. person or in the United States.
[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 75849, Dec. 26, 2012; 81 FR 94259, Dec. 23, 2016]
§ 560.533
Brokering sales of agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices.
(a)
General license for brokering sales by U.S. persons.
United States persons are authorized to provide brokerage services on behalf of U.S. persons for
the sale and exportation or reexportation by U.S. persons of agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices, provided that the sale and exportation or reexportation is authorized, as applicable, by a one-year specific license issued pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of § 560.530 or by one of the general licenses set forth in paragraphs (a)(2), (a)(3), and (a)(4) of § 560.530.
(b)
Specific licensing for brokering sales by non-U.S. persons of agricultural commodities.
Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to permit U.S. persons to provide brokerage services on behalf of non-U.S., non-Iranian persons for the sale and exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities to the Government of Iran, entities in Iran, or individuals in Iran. Specific licenses issued pursuant to this section will authorize the brokering only of sales that are to purchasers permitted pursuant to § 560.530.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# ) of § 560.533:
Requests for specific licenses to provide brokerage services under this paragraph must include all of the information described in § 560.530(c).
(c)
No debits or credits to Iranian accounts on the books of U.S. depository institutions.
Payment for any brokerage fee earned pursuant to this section may not involve debits or credits to Iranian accounts, as defined in § 560.320.
(d)
Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
Attention is drawn to the recordkeeping, retention, and reporting requirements of §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter.
[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 18995, Apr. 7, 2014]
§ 560.534
Winding down of transactions related to the importation into the United States of, and dealings in, certain foodstuffs and carpets.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, all transactions and activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the wind down of the following activities are authorized through 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time on August 6, 2018:
(1) The importation into the United States, from Iran or a third country, of the following goods of Iranian origin:
(i) Foodstuffs intended for human consumption that are classified under chapters 2-23 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States; and
(ii) Carpets and other textile floor coverings and carpets used as wall hangings that are classified under chapter 57 or heading 9706.00.0060 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
(2) United States persons, wherever located, engaging in transactions or dealings in or related to the categories of Iranian-origin goods described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, provided that the transaction or dealing does not involve or relate to goods, technology, or services for exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply, directly or indirectly, to Iran, the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211, other than services described in § 560.405 (“Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction authorized”) and transfers of funds described in § 560.516 (“Transfers of funds involving Iran”).
(b) This general license does not authorize the importation into the United States of goods that were under seizure or detention by the Department of Homeland Security, as of January 21, 2016, pursuant to Customs regulations or other applicable provisions of law, until any applicable penalties, charges, duties, or other conditions are satisfied. This general license does not authorize the importation into the United States of goods for which forfeiture proceedings have commenced or of goods that have been forfeited to the U.S. Government, other than through U.S. Customs and Border Protection disposition, including by selling at auction.
(c) Nothing in this section authorizes debits or credits to Iranian accounts, as defined in § 560.320.
[83 FR 30337, June 28, 2018]
§ 560.535
Winding down of transactions related to letters of credit and brokering services relating to certain foodstuffs and carpets.
(a)
Wind down.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all transactions and activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the wind down of the following activities are authorized through 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time on August 6, 2018:
(1)
Purchases from Iran or the Government of Iran or certain other blocked persons.
United States depository institutions issuing letters of credit in favor of a beneficiary in Iran, the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 to pay for purchases from Iran or the Government of Iran of the categories of Iranian-origin goods described in § 560.534(a)(1), provided that such letters of credit are not advised, negotiated, paid, or confirmed by the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211.
(2)
Transactions or dealings in Iranian-origin goods located in third countries, other than purchases from the Government of Iran or certain other blocked persons.
United States depository institutions issuing, advising, negotiating, or confirming letters of credit to pay for transactions in or related to Iranian-origin goods described in § 560.534(a)(1) and located in a third-country, other than purchases from the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211, provided that such letters of credit are not issued, advised, negotiated, paid, or confirmed by the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211.
(3)
Brokering.
United States persons, wherever located, acting as brokers for the purchase or sale of the categories of Iranian-origin goods described in § 560.534(a)(1), provided that the goods are not for exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply, directly or indirectly, to Iran, the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211.
(b)
Iranian accounts.
Nothing in this section authorizes debits or credits to Iranian accounts, as defined in § 560.320.

# Note 1 to § 560.535:
See §§ 560.304 and 560.313 for information relating to individuals and entities that are included within the definition of the term
Government of Iran
and § 560.324 regarding entities included within the definition of the term
Iranian financial institution.
See § 560.516 for information relating to authorized transfers to Iran by U.S. depository institutions relating to licensed transactions.
[83 FR 30337, June 28, 2018]
§ 560.536
Winding down of transactions related to the negotiation of contingent contracts for activities eligible for authorization under the Statement of Licensing Policy for Activities Related to the Export or Re-export to Iran of Commercial Passenger Aircraft and Related Parts and Services.
(a) All transactions and activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the wind down of the following activities are authorized through 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time on August 6, 2018: U.S. persons engaging in all transactions ordinarily incident to the negotiation of contingent contracts for activities that were, at the time of the negotiation, eligible for authorization under the now-rescinded
Statement of Licensing Policy for Activities Related to the Export or Re-export to Iran of Commercial Passenger Aircraft and Related Parts and Services
(JCPOA SLP).

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# ):
OFAC has posted an archived copy of the JCPOA SLP on its website (
www.treasury.gov/ofac
) for reference purposes.
(b) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes the exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply, directly or indirectly, of any goods or technology to Iran, the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211.
(c) For purposes of this section, the term “contingent contract” means a
contract where the performance of the contract is made expressly contingent upon the issuance of a specific license by the Office of Foreign Assets Control authorizing the activities to be performed. For purposes of this section, the term “contingent contract” includes executory contracts, executory pro forma invoices, agreements in principle, executory offers capable of acceptance such as bids or proposals in response to public tenders, binding memoranda of understanding, or any other similar agreement.
[83 FR 30337, June 28, 2018]
§ 560.537
Winding down of transactions relating to foreign entities owned or controlled by a U.S. person.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions and activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the wind down of the following activities are authorized through 11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on November 4, 2018: an entity owned or controlled by a United States person and established or maintained outside the United States (a “U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity”) engaging in transactions, directly or indirectly, with the Government of Iran or any person subject to the jurisdiction of the Government of Iran that would otherwise be prohibited by § 560.215.
(b) All transactions and activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the wind down of the following activities are authorized through 11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on November 4, 2018: A United States person engaging in the following:
(1) Activities related to the establishment or alteration of operating policies and procedures of a United States entity or a U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity, to the extent necessary to allow a U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity to engage in transactions authorized in paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) Activities to make available to those foreign entities that the U.S. person owns or controls any automated and globally integrated computer, accounting, email, telecommunications, or other business support system, platform, database, application, or server necessary to store, collect, transmit, generate, or otherwise process documents or information related to transactions authorized in paragraph (a) of this section.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
b

# ):
See § 560.208 for prohibitions on facilitation by United States persons, which remain in effect, with the exception of activities authorized in paragraph (b) of this section.
(c) Paragraph (a) of this section does not authorize transactions involving:
(1) The exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply, directly or indirectly, from the United States of any goods, technology, or services prohibited by § 560.204 or the reexportation from a third country of any goods, technology, or services prohibited by § 560.205;
(2) Any transfer of funds to, from, or through a United States depository institution or a United States-registered broker or dealer in securities;
(3) Any person on OFAC's list of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN List), or any activity that would be prohibited by any part of 31 CFR chapter V other than part 560 if engaged in by a United States person or in the United States;
(4) Any person identified on the List of Foreign Sanctions Evaders pursuant to Executive Order 13608;
(5) Any activity involving any item (including information) subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774 (EAR), that is prohibited by, or otherwise requires a license under, part 744 of the EAR; or participation in any transaction involving a person whose export privileges have been denied pursuant to part 764 or 766 of the EAR, without authorization from the Department of Commerce;
(6) Any military, paramilitary, intelligence, or law enforcement entity of the Government of Iran, or any official, agent, or affiliate thereof;
(7) Any activity that is sanctionable under Executive Order 12938 or 13382 (relating to Iran's proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery, including ballistic missiles); Executive Order 13224 (relating to international terrorism); Executive Order 13572 or 13582 (relating to
Syria); Executive Order 13611 (relating to Yemen); or Executive Order 13553 or 13606, or section 2 or 3 of Executive Order 13628 (relating to Iran's commission of human rights abuses against its citizens); or
(8) Any nuclear activity involving Iran that is subject to the procurement channel established pursuant to paragraph 16 of the United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 (2015) and Section 6 of Annex IV to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action of July 14, 2015 and that has not been approved through that procurement channel process.
(d)(1) For purposes of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the term “automated” refers to a computer, accounting, email, telecommunications, or other business support system, platform, database, application, or server that operates passively and without human intervention to facilitate the flow of data between and among the United States person and its owned or controlled foreign entities.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the term “globally integrated” refers to a computer, accounting, email, telecommunications, or other business support system, platform, database, application, or server that is available to, and in general use by, the United States person's global organization, including the United States person and its owned or controlled foreign entities.
(3) Paragraph (b)(2) of this section does not authorize the use of any automated computer, accounting, email, telecommunications, or other business support system, platform, database, application, or server in connection with any transfer of funds to, from, or through a United States depository institution or a United States-registered broker or dealer in securities.
[83 FR 30338, June 28, 2018]
§ 560.538
Authorized transactions necessary and ordinarily incident to publishing.
(a) To the extent that such activities are not exempt from this part, and subject to the restrictions set forth in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, U.S. persons are authorized to engage in all transactions necessary and ordinarily incident to the publishing and marketing of manuscripts, books, journals, and newspapers in paper or electronic format (collectively, “written publications”). This section does not apply if the parties to the transactions described in this paragraph include the Government of Iran. For the purposes of this section, the term “Government of Iran” includes the state and the Government of Iran, as well as any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, which includes the Central Bank of Iran, and any person acting or purporting to act directly or indirectly on behalf of any of the foregoing with respect to the transactions described in this paragraph. For the purposes of this section, the term “Government of Iran” does not include any academic and research institutions and their personnel. Pursuant to this section, the following activities are authorized, provided that U.S. persons ensure that they are not engaging, without separate authorization, in the activities identified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section:
(1) Commissioning and making advance payments for identifiable written publications not yet in existence, to the extent consistent with industry practice;
(2) Collaborating on the creation and enhancement of written publications;
(3)(i) Augmenting written publications through the addition of items such as photographs, artwork, translation, explanatory text, and, for a written publication in electronic format, the addition of embedded software necessary for reading, browsing, navigating, or searching the written publication; and
(ii) Exporting embedded software necessary for reading, browsing, navigating, or searching a written publication in electronic format, provided that the software is designated as “EAR99” under the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774 (the “EAR”), or is not subject to the EAR;
(4) Substantive editing of written publications;
(5) Payment of royalties for written publications;
(6) Creating or undertaking a marketing campaign to promote a written publication; and
(7) Other transactions necessary and ordinarily incident to the publishing and marketing of written publications as described in this paragraph (a).
(b) This section does not authorize transactions involving the provision of goods or services not necessary and ordinarily incident to the publishing and marketing of written publications as described in paragraph (a) of this section. For example, this section does not authorize U.S. persons:
(1) To provide or receive individualized or customized services (including, but not limited to, accounting, legal, design, or consulting services), other than those necessary and ordinarily incident to the publishing and marketing of written publications, even though such individualized or customized services are delivered through the use of information or informational materials;
(2) To create or undertake for any person a marketing campaign with respect to any service or product other than a written publication, or to create or undertake a marketing campaign of any kind for the benefit of the Government of Iran;
(3) To engage in the exportation or importation of goods to or from Iran other than the exportation of embedded software described in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section; or
(4) To operate a publishing house, sales outlet, or other office in Iran.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# ) of § 560.538:
The importation from Iran and the exportation to Iran of information or informational materials, as defined in § 560.315, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission, are exempt from the prohibitions and regulations of this part.
See
§ 560.210(c).
(c) This section does not authorize U.S. persons to engage the services of publishing houses or translators in Iran unless such activity is primarily for the dissemination of written publications in Iran.
(d) This section does not authorize:
(1) The exportation from or importation into the United States of services for the development, production, or design of software;
(2) Transactions for the development, production, design, or marketing of technology specifically controlled by the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, 22 CFR parts 120 through 130 (the “ITAR”), the EAR, or the Department of Energy Regulations set forth at 10 CFR part 810;
(3) The exportation of information or technology subject to the authorization requirements of 10 CFR part 810, or Restricted Data as defined in section 11 y. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, or of other information, data, or technology the release of which is controlled under the Atomic Energy Act and regulations therein;
(4) The exportation of any item (including information) subject to the EAR where a U.S. person knows or has reason to know that the item will be used, directly or indirectly, with respect to certain nuclear, missile, chemical, or biological weapons or nuclear-maritime end-uses as set forth in part 744 of the EAR. In addition, U.S. persons are precluded from exporting any item subject to the EAR to certain restricted end-users, as set forth in part 744 of the EAR, as well as certain persons whose export privileges have been denied pursuant to parts 764 or 766 of the EAR, without authorization from the Department of Commerce; or
(5) The exportation of information subject to licensing requirements under the ITAR or exchanges of information that are subject to regulation by other government agencies.
§ 560.539
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(1) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(2) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(3) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(4) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(5) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
(b) This section does not authorize any transactions or activities involving the Iranian Red Crescent Society.
[87 FR 78477, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 560.540
Certain services, software, and hardware incident to communications.
(a) To the extent that such transactions are not exempt from the prohibitions of this part, and subject to the restrictions set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, the following transactions are authorized:
(1)
Services.
The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by a U.S. person, wherever located, to Iran of services incident to the exchange of communications over the internet, such as instant messaging, chat and email, social networking, sharing of photos and movies, web browsing, blogging, social media platforms, collaboration platforms, video conferencing, e-gaming, e-learning platforms, automated translation, web maps, and user authentication services, as well as cloud-based services in support of the foregoing or of any other transaction authorized or exempt under this part.
(2)
Software
—(i)
Software subject to or excluded from the EAR.
The exportation, reexportation, or provision, directly or indirectly, to Iran of software subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774 (EAR), pursuant to 15 CFR 734.3(a), that is incident to, or enables services incident to, the exchange of communications over the internet, such as instant messaging, chat and email, social networking, sharing of photos and movies, web browsing, blogging, social media platforms, collaboration platforms, video conferencing, e-gaming, e-learning platforms, automated translation, web maps, and user authentication services, as well as cloud-based services in support of the foregoing or of any other transaction authorized or exempt under this part, provided that such software is designated EAR99, excluded from the EAR because it is described under 15 CFR 734.3(b)(3), or classified by the U.S. Department of Commerce on the Commerce Control List, 15 CFR part 774, supplement No. 1 (CCL), under export control classification number (ECCN) 5D992.c.
(ii)
Software that is not subject to the EAR because it is of foreign origin and is located outside the United States.
The exportation, reexportation, or provision, directly or indirectly, by a U.S. person, wherever located, to Iran of software that is not subject to the EAR because it is of foreign origin and is located outside the United States, that is incident to, or enables services incident to, the exchange of communications over the internet, such as instant messaging, chat and email, social networking, sharing of photos and movies, web browsing, blogging, social media platforms, collaboration platforms, video conferencing, e-gaming, e-learning platforms, automated translation, web maps, and user authentication services, as well as cloud-based services in support of the foregoing or of any other transaction authorized or exempt under this part, provided that such software would be designated EAR99 if it were located in the United States or would meet the criteria for classification under ECCN 5D992.c if it were subject to the EAR.
(3)
Additional software, hardware, and related services.
To the extent not authorized by paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, the exportation, reexportation, or provision, directly or indirectly, to Iran of certain software and hardware incident to communications, as well as related services, as follows:
(i) In the case of hardware and software subject to the EAR, the items specified in the “List of Services, Software, and Hardware Incident to Communications under 31 CFR 560.540”, which is maintained on OFAC's website
(
https://ofac.treasury.gov
) on the Iran Sanctions page;
(ii) In the case of hardware and software that is not subject to the EAR because it is of foreign origin and is located outside the United States that is exported, reexported, or provided, directly or indirectly, by a U.S. person, wherever located, hardware and software that is of a type described in the “List of Services, Software, and Hardware Incident to Communications under 31 CFR 560.540”, provided that the item would be designated EAR99 if it were located in the United States or would meet the criteria for classification under the relevant ECCN specified in the “List of Services, Software, and Hardware Incident to Communications under 31 CFR 560.540” if it were subject to the EAR; and
(iii) In the case of software not subject to the EAR because it is described in 15 CFR 734.3(b)(3) that is exported, reexported, or provided, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by a U.S. person, wherever located, software that is of a type described in the “List of Services, Software, and Hardware Incident to Communications under 31 CFR 560.540”.

# Note 1 to paragraphs (
a

# )(2) and (3):
The authorizations in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section include the exportation, reexportation, or provision, directly or indirectly, to Iran of authorized hardware and software by an individual leaving the United States for Iran.
(4)
Internet connectivity services and telecommunications capacity.
The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by a U.S. person, wherever located, to Iran of non-commercial-grade internet connectivity services, to include cloud-based services, and the provision, sale, or leasing of capacity on telecommunications transmission facilities (such as satellite or terrestrial network connectivity) incident to communications.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
a

# )(4):
See
§ 560.508 for authorizations relating to transactions with respect to the receipt and transmission of telecommunications involving Iran.
(5)
Importation into the United States or a third country of hardware and software previously exported to Iran.
The importation into the United States or a third country of hardware and software authorized for exportation, reexportation, or provision to Iran under paragraph (a)(2) or (3) of this section, provided that the hardware or software was previously exported, reexported, or provided to Iran under an authorization issued pursuant to this part.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
a

# )(5):
See
§ 560.306 for definitions of the terms
goods of Iranian origin
and
Iranian-origin goods,
which do not include goods that have been previously exported or reexported to Iran under an authorization issued pursuant to this part and which have subsequently been exported from and are located outside of Iran.
(6)
Publicly available, no cost services and software to the Government of Iran
—(i)
Services.
The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by a U.S. person, wherever located, to the Government of Iran, as defined in § 560.304, of services described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section or categories (6) through (11) of the “List of Services, Software, and Hardware Incident to Communications under 31 CFR 560.540”, provided that such services are publicly available at no cost to the user.
(ii)
Software.
The exportation, reexportation, or provision, directly or indirectly, to the Government of Iran of software described in paragraph (a)(2) or (3) of this section or categories (6) through (11) of the “List of Services, Software, and Hardware Incident to Communications under 31 CFR 560.540”, provided that such software is publicly available at no cost to the user.
(7)
Services conducted outside Iran to install, repair, or replace.
The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by a U.S. person, wherever located, to Iran of services conducted outside Iran to install, repair, or replace hardware or software authorized for exportation, reexportation, or provision to Iran pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) or (3) of this section.

# Note 4 to paragraph (
a

# ):
In paragraph (a)(6) of this section, the term “publicly available” refers generally to software that is widely available to the public. Paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section refers to software that is described in 15 CFR 734.3(b)(3), which defines “publicly available” software for purposes of the EAR. The scope of the term “publicly available” in paragraph (a)(6) of this section thus differs from the scope of the Department of Commerce's regulation at
15 CFR 734.3(b)(3) as referenced in paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section.
(b) This section does not authorize:
(1) The exportation, reexportation, or provision, directly or indirectly, of the services, software, or hardware specified in paragraph (a) of this section with knowledge or reason to know that such services, software, or hardware are intended for the Government of Iran, except for services or software specified in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, or for any person blocked pursuant to this part other than the Government of Iran.
(2) The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, of commercial-grade internet connectivity services or telecommunications transmission facilities (such as dedicated satellite links or dedicated lines that include quality of service guarantees).
(3) The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, of web-hosting services that are for websites of commercial entities located in Iran or of domain name registration services for or on behalf of the Government of Iran, as defined in § 560.304, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211.
(4) Any transaction by a U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity otherwise prohibited by § 560.215 if the transaction would be prohibited by any other part of chapter V if engaged in by a U.S. person or in the United States.
(5) Any action or activity involving any item (including information) subject to the EAR that is prohibited by, or otherwise requires a license under, part 744 of the EAR or participation in any transaction involving a person whose export privileges have been denied pursuant to part 764 or 766 of the EAR, without authorization from the Department of Commerce.
(c) Transfers of funds from Iran or for or on behalf of a person in Iran in furtherance of an underlying transaction authorized by paragraph (a) of this section may be processed by U.S. depository institutions and U.S. registered brokers or dealers in securities provided they are consistent with § 560.516.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis for the exportation, reexportation, or provision of services, software, or hardware incident to communications not specified in paragraph (a) of this section, including in the “List of Services, Software, and Hardware Incident to Communications under 31 CFR 560.540”, or other activities to support internet freedom in Iran, including development and hosting of anti-surveillance software by Iranian developers.
[89 FR 43313, May 17, 2024]
§ 560.541
Third-country diplomatic and consular funds transfers.
United States depository institutions and United States registered brokers or dealers in securities are authorized to process funds transfers, in a manner consistent with § 560.516, for the operating expenses or other official business of third-country diplomatic or consular missions in Iran.
§ 560.542
Importation and exportation of human remains for burial, cremation, or interment authorized.
(a) The importation into the United States of human remains for burial, cremation, or interment, as well as of coffins or other receptacles containing such human remains, from Iran is authorized.
(b) The importation into the United States for non-commercial purposes of finished tombstones or grave markers of Iranian origin is authorized.
(c) The direct or indirect exportation from the United States, or by a United States person, wherever located, of human remains for burial, cremation, or interment, as well as of coffins or other receptacles containing such human remains, to Iran is authorized.
(d) This section does not authorize the importation into the United States of Iranian-origin cultural property or other items of archaeological, historical, or rare scientific importance.
§ 560.543
Sale of certain real and personal property in Iran and transfer of related funds to the United States.
(a) Individuals who are U.S. persons are authorized to engage in transactions necessary and ordinarily incident to the sale of real and personal property in Iran and to transfer the proceeds to the United States, provided
that such real and personal property was acquired before the individual became a U.S. person or inherited from persons in Iran. Authorized transactions include engaging the services of any persons in Iran necessary for the sale, such as an attorney, funds agent, or broker.
(b) This section does not authorize:
(1) The wind-down of commercial enterprises in Iran;
(2) The re-investment in Iran of the proceeds from the real or personal property sales authorized in paragraph (a) of this section; or
(3) The exportation or reexportation to Iran of any goods (including software) or technology.
[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 83 FR 55271, Nov. 5, 2018]
§ 560.544
Certain educational activities by U.S. persons in third countries authorized.
(a) Subject to the restriction set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, accredited undergraduate degree-granting academic institutions organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States or located in the United States (“U.S. undergraduate institutions”) with undergraduate educational programs or undergraduate exchange programs in countries other than the United States or Iran are authorized to engage in the following activities with respect to such programs in the humanities, social sciences, law, and business:
(1) Recruit, hire, and employ faculty and staff who are ordinarily resident in Iran;
(2) Recruit, enroll, and educate students who are ordinarily resident in Iran;
(3) Enter into and perform exchange agreements with Iranian universities;
(4) Provide scholarships to students ordinarily resident in Iran; and
(5) Recruit individuals ordinarily resident in Iran, such as scholars, artists, performers, speakers, alumni, and students, to participate in events, such as conferences, lectures, film series, research workshops, exhibitions, theatrical and musical performances, and continuing education courses. U.S. undergraduate institutions are authorized to provide compensation, including honoraria, to such individuals.
(b) Subject to the restriction set forth in paragraph (c) of this section:
(1) Paragraph (a)(2) of this section authorizes the release of technology or software to students ordinarily resident in Iran, provided that all of the following requirements are met:
(i) Such release is ordinarily incident and necessary to the undergraduate educational program or the undergraduate exchange program at the U.S. undergraduate institution in which the student is enrolled;
(ii) The technology or software being released is designated as EAR99 under the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774 (the “EAR”), or constitutes Educational Information not subject to the EAR, as set forth in 15 CFR 734.9;
(iii) The release does not otherwise require a license from the Department of Commerce; and
(iv) The student to whom the release is made is not enrolled in the undergraduate educational program, or participating in the undergraduate exchange program, as an agent, employee, or contractor of the Government of Iran or a business entity or other organization in Iran.
(2) This section authorizes enrollment in undergraduate courses in math, sciences, and engineering that are required or electives for undergraduate programs in the humanities, social sciences, law, or business provided the following conditions are met:
(i) The undergraduate courses are required for the completion of the humanities, social sciences, law, or business program and are for “introductory,” non-major, freshman or sophomore equivalent courses only; or
(ii) The undergraduate courses are required for the completion of the humanities, social sciences, law, or business program and are math-related accounting or economics classes at any undergraduate level, not to include courses allowing for any post-graduate work.
(c) This section does not authorize the exportation or reexportation to Iran or the Government of Iran of any
goods (including software) or technology, including any release of technology or software described in § 560.418 of this part, except as expressly authorized in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing accredited graduate degree-granting academic institutions organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States or located in the United States with graduate educational programs or graduate exchange programs in third countries to recruit, hire, and employ faculty and staff who are ordinarily resident in Iran for such third-country graduate educational programs in the humanities, social sciences, law, and business or graduate exchange programs in the humanities, social sciences, law, and business, and to recruit, enroll, and educate students who are ordinarily resident in Iran in such third-country graduate educational programs in the humanities, social sciences, law, and business or graduate exchange programs in the humanities, social sciences, law, and business.
§ 560.545
Democracy and human rights in Iran and academic and cultural exchange programs.
(a) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental organizations and other entities organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States or located in the United States to engage in the following projects or activities in or related to Iran that are designed to directly benefit the Iranian people:
(1) Projects, including conferences and training, to support human rights, democratic freedoms, and democratic institutions and to meet basic human needs; and
(2) The establishment or support of independent civic organizations.
(b) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize U.S. persons to engage in the following projects or activities in or related to Iran that are designed to directly benefit the Iranian people:
(1) The provision of donated professional medical services;
(2) Certain targeted educational, cultural, and sports exchange programs, provided such programs are not in furtherance of Iranian military, industrial, or technological infrastructure or potential;
(3) Environmental projects, provided such projects are not in furtherance of Iranian military or industrial infrastructure or potential; and
(4) Projects, including exchanges and technical training, to improve the flow of public information through independent media available to the Iranian public.
(c) Specific licenses issued pursuant to this section generally will not authorize the exportation or reexportation to Iran of goods (including software) and technology listed on the Commerce Control List in the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR part 774, supplement No. 1 (CCL).

# Note 1 to § 560.545:
The CCL includes items such as many laptop computers, personal computers, cell phones, personal digital assistants and other wireless handheld devices/blackberries, and other similar items. The exportation or reexportation of these items to Iran, even on a temporary basis, is prohibited, unless specifically authorized in a license issued pursuant to this part in a manner consistent with the Iran-Iraq Arms Nonproliferation Act of 1992 and other relevant law.
§ 560.546
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.

# Note to § 560.546:
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 560.213 of this part concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
§ 560.547
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges authorized.
(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, Internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

# Note to § 560.547:
See
§ 560.517, which authorizes U.S. depository institutions and U.S. registered brokers or dealers in securities to provide and be compensated for services with respect to the limited maintenance of Iranian accounts other than blocked accounts, including the payment of interest and dividends and the debiting of service charges.
§ 560.548
Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.
Subject to the requirements of § 560.213, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 560.211, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (
e.g.,
through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211.
§ 560.549
Policy governing Iranian news organizations' offices in the United States.
Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing transactions necessary for the establishment and operation of news bureaus in the United States by Iranian organizations whose primary purpose is the gathering and dissemination of news to the general public.
§ 560.550
Certain noncommercial, personal remittances to or from Iran authorized.
(a) In cases in which the transfer involves a noncommercial, personal remittance, the transfer of funds to or from Iran or for or on behalf of an individual ordinarily resident in Iran, other than an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211, is authorized, provided that the transfer is processed by a United States depository institution or a United States registered broker or dealer in securities and not by any other U.S. person; does not involve debiting or crediting an Iranian account; and is not by, to, or through the Government of Iran, as defined in § 560.304.
(b) Noncommercial, personal remittances do not include charitable donations to or for the benefit of an entity or funds transfers for use in supporting or operating a business, including a family-owned enterprise.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# ) of § 560.550:
Charitable donations of funds to or for the benefit of an entity in Iran require a specific license.
(c) The transferring institutions identified in paragraph (a) of this section may rely on the originator of a funds transfer with regard to compliance with paragraph (a) of this section, provided that the transferring institution does not know or have reason to know that the funds transfer is not in
compliance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) An individual who is a U.S. person is authorized to carry funds as a noncommercial, personal remittance, as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, to an individual in Iran or ordinarily resident in Iran, other than an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211, provided that the individual who is a U.S. person is carrying the funds on his or her behalf, but not on behalf of another person.
§ 560.551
Student loan payments from persons in Iran authorized.
United States depository institutions and private loan companies are authorized to engage in all transactions necessary to collect, accept, and process student loan payments from persons in Iran or ordinarily resident in Iran.
§ 560.552
Transactions related to U.S. citizens residing in Iran.
(a) Except as provided by paragraph (b) of this section, U.S. persons are authorized to engage in transactions in Iran ordinarily incident to the routine and necessary maintenance and other personal living expenses of U.S. citizens who reside on a permanent basis in Iran.
(b) Nothing in this section authorizes transactions related to employment by U.S. persons in Iran.
§ 560.553
Payments from funds originating outside the United States authorized.
Effective October 22, 2012, receipts of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 560.525(a) to or on behalf of the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 are authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that:
(a) Prior to receiving payment for legal services authorized pursuant to § 560.525(a) rendered to the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211, the U.S. person that is an attorney, law firm, or legal services organization provides to the Office of Foreign Assets Control a copy of a letter of engagement or a letter of intent to engage specifying the services to be performed and signed by the individual to whom such services are to be provided or, where services are to be provided to an entity, by a legal representative of the entity. The copy of a letter of engagement or a letter of intent to engage, accompanied by correspondence referencing this paragraph (a), is to be mailed to: Licensing Division, Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Annex, Washington, DC 20220;
(b) The funds received by U.S. persons as payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 560.525(a) must not originate from:
(1) A source within the United States;
(2) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(3) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 560.525(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order; and

# Note to paragraph (
b

# ) of § 560.553:
This paragraph authorizes the blocked person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 560.525(a) are to be provided to make payments for authorized legal services using funds originating outside the United States that were not previously blocked. Nothing in this paragraph authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order holds an interest.
(c)
Reports.
(1) U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to this section in connection with legal services authorized pursuant to § 560.525(a) must submit quarterly reports providing information on the funds received, no later than 30 days following the end of the calendar quarter during which the payments were received. Such reports shall specify:
(i) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(ii) If applicable:
(A) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(B) A general description of the services provided; and
(C) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services;
(2) In the event that no transactions occur or no funds are received during the reporting period, a statement is to be filed to that effect; and
(3) The reports, which must reference this section, are to be mailed to: Licensing Division, Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Annex, Washington, DC 20220.
(d) Nothing in this section authorizes any transaction by an entity owned or controlled by a United States person and established or maintained outside the United States otherwise prohibited by § 560.215 if the transaction would be prohibited by any other part of this chapter V if engaged in by a U.S. person or in the United States.

# Note 1 to § 560.553:
U.S. persons who receive payments in connection with legal services authorized pursuant to § 560.525(a) do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. Additionally, U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 560.525(a).

# Note 2 to § 560.553:
Any payment authorized in or pursuant to this section that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference this § 560.553 to avoid the blocking of the transfer.

# Note 3 to § 560.553:
Nothing in this section authorizes the transfer of any blocked property, the debiting of any blocked account, the entry of any judgment or order that effects a transfer of blocked property, or the execution of any judgment against property blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order.
[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 75849, Dec. 26, 2012]
§ 560.554
Importation and exportation of services related to conferences in the United States or third countries authorized.
(a) Subject to the restrictions in paragraph (c) of this section, the importation of Iranian-origin services into the United States or other dealing in such services and the exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply of services from the United States or by a U.S. person are authorized where such services are performed or provided in the United States by or for a person who is ordinarily resident in Iran, other than the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211, for the purpose of, or which directly relate to, participating in a public conference, performance, exhibition or similar event, and such services are consistent with that purpose.
(b) To the extent not otherwise exempt from the prohibitions of this part and subject to the restrictions in paragraph (c) of this section, the exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply of services directly related to the sponsorship by a U.S. person of a public conference or other similar public event in a third country that is attended by persons who are ordinarily resident in Iran, other than the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211, is authorized, provided that attendance and participation at the conference or other similar public event is open for the public and that the conference or other similar event is not tailored in whole or in part to or for Iran or persons who are ordinarily resident in Iran.
(c) This section does not authorize:
(1) Any release of technology or software to a person who is ordinarily resident in Iran; and
(2) The exportation, reexportation, sale or supply of services, or the importation of Iranian-origin services or other dealing in such services, related to the petroleum or petrochemical industries, energy development, crude oil or natural gas, pipelines, or the oil services industry.
§ 560.555
Winding-down of transactions prohibited by § 560.215.
(a) Except as set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, all transactions ordinarily incident and necessary to the winding-down of transactions prohibited by § 560.215 are authorized from October 9, 2012, through March 8, 2013, provided that those ordinarily incident and necessary transactions do not involve a U.S. person or occur in the United States.
(b) Nothing in this section authorizes any transactions prohibited by § 560.205.
(c) Transactions involving Iranian financial institutions are authorized pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section only if the property and interests in property of the Iranian financial institution are blocked solely pursuant to this part.
[77 FR 75850, Dec. 26, 2012]
§ 560.556
Foreign entities owned or controlled by U.S. persons authorized to engage in transactions that are authorized by general license if engaged in by a U.S. person or in the United States.
(a) Except as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, an entity owned or controlled by a United States person and established or maintained outside the United States (a “U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity”) is authorized to engage in a transaction otherwise prohibited by § 560.215 that would be authorized by a general license set forth in or issued pursuant to this part if engaged in by a U.S. person or in the United States, provided the U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity is authorized to engage in the transaction only to the same extent as the U.S. person is authorized to engage in the transaction and subject to all the conditions and requirements set forth in the general license for the U.S. person.
(b) This section does not authorize any transaction by a U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity otherwise prohibited by § 560.215 if the transaction would be prohibited by any other part of this chapter V if engaged in by a U.S. person or in the United States.
[77 FR 75850, Dec. 26, 2012]
§ 560.557
Official business of the United States Government.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[87 FR 78477, Dec. 21, 2022]

# Subpart F—Reports
§ 560.601
Records and reports.
For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.
§§ 560.602-560.603
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Penalties
§ 560.701
Penalties.
(a) Attention is directed to section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (“IEEPA”), which is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) The applicable maximum civil penalty per violation of IEEPA is the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, or willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a
natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(4) As set forth in section 218 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (Pub. L. 112-158), a civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on a United States person if an entity owned or controlled by the United States person and established or maintained outside the United States violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of the prohibition set forth in § 560.215 or of any order, regulation, or license set forth in or issued pursuant to this part concerning such prohibition. The penalties set forth in this paragraph shall not apply with respect to a transaction described in § 560.215 by an entity owned or controlled by the United States person and established or maintained outside the United States if the United States person divests or terminates its business with the entity not later than February 6, 2013, such that the U.S. person no longer owns or controls the entity, as defined in § 560.215(b)(1).
(b)
Adjustments to penalty amounts.
(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Attention is also directed to 18 U.S.C. 1001, which provides that whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact, or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation, or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned, or both.
(d) Attention is directed to 18 U.S.C. 2332d, as added by Public Law 104-132, section 321, which provides that, except as provided in regulations issued by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, a U.S. person, knowing or having reasonable cause to know that a country is designated under section 6(j) of the Export Administration Act, 50 U.S.C. App. 2405, as a country supporting international terrorism, engages in a financial transaction with the government of that country, shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned for not more than 10 years, or both.
(e) Violations of this part may also be subject to relevant provisions of Customs laws and other applicable laws.
[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 75850, Dec. 26, 2012; 81 FR 43076, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 10438, Feb. 10, 2017; 83 FR 11880, Mar. 19, 2018; 84 FR 27718, June 14, 2019; 85 FR 19887, Apr. 9, 2020; 85 FR 61825, Oct. 1, 2020; 86 FR 14538, Mar. 17, 2021; 87 FR 7372, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2233, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2143, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3692, Jan. 15, 2025]
§ 560.702
Detention of shipments.
Import shipments into the United States of Iranian-origin goods in violation of § 560.201 and export shipments from the United States of goods destined for Iran in violation of § 560.204 shall be detained. No such import, export, or reexport will be permitted to proceed, except as specifically authorized by or on behalf of the Secretary of the Treasury. Unless licensed, such shipments are subject to penalty or seizure and forfeiture action, under the customs laws or other applicable provisions of law, depending on the circumstances.
§ 560.703
Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.
(a)
When required.
If the Office of Foreign Assets Control has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, the Office of Foreign Assets Control will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged
violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see Appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b)(1)
Right to
respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to the Office of Foreign Assets Control. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2)
Deadline for
response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within the applicable 30-day period set forth in this paragraph. The failure to submit a response within the applicable time period set forth in this paragraph shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i)
Computation of
time for
response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to the Office of Foreign Assets Control by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii)
Extensions of
time for
response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, only upon specific request to the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
(3)
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and must include the Office of Foreign Assets Control identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to the Office of Foreign Assets Control Civil Penalties Division by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see Appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d)
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by the Office of Foreign Assets Control are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e)
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with the Office of Foreign Assets Control prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
§ 560.704
Penalty imposition.
If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, the Office of Foreign Assets Control may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
§ 560.705
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.
In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.

# Subpart H—Procedures
§ 560.801
Procedures.
For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
§ 560.802
Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.
Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 12613 of October 29, 1987 (3 CFR, 1987 Comp., p. 256), Executive Order 12957 of March 15, 1995 (3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 332), Executive Order 12959 of May 6, 1995 (3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 356), Executive Order 13059 of August 19, 1997 (3 CFR, 1997 Comp., p. 217), Executive Order 13599 of February 5, 2012 (77 FR 6659, February 8, 2012), and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12957, may be taken by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.
§ 560.803
[Reserved]

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
§ 560.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures (including those pursuant to statements of licensing policy), and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
Appendix A to Part 560 [Reserved]
Pt. 560, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 560—Bulk Agricultural Commodities

# Notes:
1. Appendix B sets forth those bulk agricultural commodities eligible for sale pursuant to the licensing procedures and the general license in § 560.530.
2. Commodities are identified by their classification numbers in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (see 19 U.S.C. 1202) (“HTS”).
HTS No.
Commodity
1001.10
Durum Wheat.
1001.90
Other Wheat and Meslin, including seed, Red Spring Wheat, White Winter Wheat, “Canadian” Western Red Winter Wheat, Soft White Spring Wheat, and Wheat not elsewhere specified.
1101.00
Wheat or Meslin Flour.
1006.10
Rice in the husk (paddy or rough).
1006.20
Husked (brown) Rice.
1006.30
Semi-milled or wholly milled Rice, whether or not polished or glazed.
1006.40
Broken Rice.
1102.30
Rice Flour.
1103.14
Rice Groats, Meal and Pellets.
1002.00
Rye.
1003.00
Barley.
1004.00
Oats.
1007.00
Grain Sorghum.
1005.00
Corn (Maize).
0713.31
Dried Beans including Vigna mungo (L.), Hepper, and Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek.
0713.32
Small red (adzuki) beans.
0713.33
Kidney beans, including white pea beans.
0713.39
Beans, other.
0713.50
Broad beans and horse beans.
0713.10
Dried Peas (Pisum sativum).
0713.20
Chickpeas (garbanzos).
0713.40
Lentils.
0713.90
Dried leguminous vegetables, shelled, not elsewhere specified.
1201.00
Soybeans, whether or not broken.
2304.00
Soybean cake, meal and pellets.
1507.10
Soybean oil, crude.
1507.90
Soybean oil, other.
1514.10
Rapeseed, colza and mustard oil, crude.
1514.90
Rapeseed, colza and mustard oil, other.
1515.21
Corn (Maize) oil, crude.
1515.29
Corn (Maize) oil, other.
1512.21
Cottonseed oil, crude.
1512.29
Cottonseed oil, other.
1517.90
Cottonseed oil, hydrogenated.
1508.10
Peanut (ground-nut) oil, crude.
1508.90
Peanut (ground-nut) oil, other.
1515.50
Sesame oil.
1512.11
Sunflower-seed oil, crude.
1512.19
Sunflower-seed oil, other.
1212.91
Sugar Beets, fresh, chilled, frozen or dried.
1212.92
Sugar Cane, fresh, chilled, frozen or dried.
1701.11
Cane Sugar, raw, solid form.
1701.12
Beet Sugar, raw, solid form.
1701.91
Cane or Beet Sugar, solid form, containing added coloring or flavoring.
1701.99
Cane or Beet Sugar, other, not elsewhere specified.
Appendix C to Part 560 [Reserved]
Pt. 561

# PART 561—IRANIAN FINANCIAL SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
Sec.
561.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
561.201
CISADA-based sanctions on certain foreign financial institutions.
561.202
Prohibitions on persons owned or controlled by U.S. financial institutions.
561.203
NDAA-based sanctions on certain foreign financial institutions.
561.204
Additional petroleum-related sanctions on certain foreign financial institutions.
561.205
Metals-related sanctions on certain foreign financial institutions.
561.220
Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
561.301
Effective date.
561.302
UNSC Resolution 1737.
561.303
UNSC Resolution 1747.
561.304
UNSC Resolution 1803.
561.305
UNSC Resolution 1929.
561.306
Correspondent account.
561.307
Payable-through account.
561.308
Foreign financial institution.
561.309
U.S. financial institution.
561.310
Money laundering.
561.311
Agent.
561.312
Act of international terrorism.
561.313
Financial services.
561.314
Knowingly.
561.315
Person.
561.316
Entity.
561.317
Money service businesses.
561.318
Petroleum.
561.319
Petroleum products.
561.320
Iranian financial institution.
561.321
Government of Iran.
561.322
Entity owned or controlled by the Government of Iran.
561.323
Foreign financial institution owned or controlled by the government of a foreign country.
561.324
Designated Iranian financial institution.
561.325
Financial transaction.
561.326
Privately owned foreign financial institution.
561.327
Agricultural commodities, food, medicine, and medical devices.
561.328
Reduce significantly, significantly reduced, and significant reduction.
561.329
Iran.
561.330
Petrochemical products.
561.331
Aluminum, aluminum products.
561.332
Aluminum sector of Iran.
561.333
Copper, copper products.
561.334
Copper sector of Iran.
561.335
Iron, iron products, steel, steel products.
561.336
Iron sector of Iran.
561.337
Steel sector of Iran.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
561.401
Reference to amended sections.
561.402
Effect of amendment.
561.403
Facilitation of certain efforts, activities, or transactions by foreign financial institutions.
561.404
Significant transaction or transactions; significant financial services; significant financial transaction.
561.405
Entities owned by a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.
561.406
Country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution.
561.407
Conducting or facilitating a financial transaction with the Central Bank of Iran or a designated Iranian financial institution.
561.408
Goods or services originating in a country.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
561.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
561.502
Effect of license or authorization.
561.503
Exclusion from licenses.
561.504
Transactions related to closing a correspondent account or payable-through account.
561.505
Official business of the United States Government.

# Subpart F—Reports
561.601
Records and reports.

# Subpart G—Penalties
561.701
Penalties.
561.702
Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.
561.703
Penalty imposition.
561.704
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

# Subpart H—Procedures
561.801
Procedures.
561.802
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.
561.803
Consultations.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
561.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; 22 U.S.C. 8501-8551, 8701-8795; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 12957, 60 FR 14615, 3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 332; E.O. 13553, 75 FR 60567, 3 CFR, 2010 Comp., p. 253; E.O. 13599, 77 FR 6659, 3 CFR, 2012 Comp., p. 215; E.O. 13846, 83 FR 38939, 3 CFR, 2018 Comp., p. 854; E.O. 13871, 84 FR 20761, 3 CFR, 2019 Comp., p. 309.

# Source:
77 FR 11726, Feb. 27, 2012, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
§ 561.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part or the conditions imposed pursuant to this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
§ 561.201
CISADA-based sanctions on certain foreign financial institutions.
Upon a finding by the Secretary of the Treasury that a foreign financial institution knowingly engages in one or more of the activities described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) of this section, attempts or conspires to facilitate or participate in one or more of such activities, or is owned or controlled by a foreign financial institution that the Secretary finds knowingly engages in one or more of such activities, consistent with the Secretary of the Treasury's authorities under the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (Pub. L. 111-195) (22 U.S.C. 8501-8551) (“CISADA”), as amended by the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (Pub. L. 112-
158), either the Secretary of the Treasury will impose one or more strict conditions, as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, on the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for that foreign financial institution, or, as set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury will prohibit a U.S. financial institution from opening or maintaining a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for that foreign financial institution. The name of the foreign financial institution and the relevant prohibition or strict condition(s) will be added to the List of Foreign Financial Institutions Subject to Correspondent Account or Payable-Through Account Sanctions (CAPTA List) on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site (
www.treasury.gov/ofac
) and published in the
Federal Register.
(a) A foreign financial institution engages in an activity described in this paragraph if, in any location or currency, the foreign financial institution knowingly:
(1) Facilitates the efforts of the Government of Iran (including efforts of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its agents or affiliates)—
(i) To acquire or develop weapons of mass destruction or delivery systems for weapons of mass destruction; or
(ii) To provide support for organizations designated as foreign terrorist organizations under section 219(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189(a)) or support for acts of international terrorism, as defined in § 561.312 of this part;
(2) Facilitates the activities of—
(i) A person subject to financial sanctions pursuant to United Nations Security Council Resolutions 1737, 1747, 1803, or 1929, or any other resolution adopted by the Security Council that imposes sanctions with respect to Iran; or
(ii) A person acting on behalf of or at the direction of, or owned or controlled by, a person described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section;

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(2) of § 561.201:
Persons subject to financial sanctions pursuant to the United Nations Security Council resolutions listed in § 561.201(a)(2) include individuals and entities listed in the Annex to UNSC Resolution 1737, Annex I of UNSC Resolution 1747, Annexes I and III of UNSC Resolution 1803, and Annexes I, II, and III of UNSC Resolution 1929; and individuals and entities designated by the Security Council or by the Committee established pursuant to UNSC Resolution 1737 (the “Committee”) as being engaged in, directly associated with or providing support for Iran's proliferation sensitive nuclear activities, or the development of nuclear weapon delivery systems; and individuals and entities acting on behalf of or at the direction of those so listed or designated; and entities owned or controlled by those so listed or designated; and individuals and entities determined by the Security Council or the Committee to have assisted listed or designated individuals or entities in evading sanctions of, or in violating the provisions of, UNSC Resolutions 1737, 1747, 1803, or 1929.
(3) Engages in money laundering to carry out an activity described in paragraphs (a)(1) or (2) of this section;
(4) Facilitates efforts by the Central Bank of Iran or any other Iranian financial institution to carry out an activity described in paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section;
(5) Facilitates a significant transaction or transactions or provides significant financial services for—
(i) Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its agents or affiliates whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) (“IEEPA”); or
(ii) A person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to parts 544 or 594 of this chapter in connection with Iran's proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or delivery systems for weapons of mass destruction or Iran's support for international terrorism; or

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(5) of § 561.201:
The names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to IEEPA are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (the “SDN List”). The SDN List is accessible through the following page on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. Agents or affiliates of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary
Guard Corps (“IRGC”) whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to IEEPA are identified by a special reference to the “IRGC” at the end of their entries on the SDN List, in addition to the reference to the regulatory part of this chapter pursuant to which their property and interests in property are blocked. For example, an affiliate of the IRGC whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferators Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 544, will have the tags “[NPWMD][IRGC]” at the end of its entry on the SDN List. Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to parts 544 or 594 of this chapter in connection with Iran's proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or delivery systems for weapons of mass destruction or Iran's support for international terrorism also are identified by the tag “[IFSR]” in addition to the tag referencing part 544 or part 594, as the case may be, located at the end of their entries on the SDN List (e.g., [NPWMD][IFSR] or [SDGT][IFSR]). In addition, see § 561.405 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked.
(6) Facilitates, or participates or assists in, an activity described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section, including by acting on behalf of, at the direction of, or as an intermediary for, or otherwise assisting, another person with respect to the activity.
(b) The Secretary of the Treasury may impose one or more strict conditions on the opening or maintaining by a U.S. financial institution of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution that the Secretary finds engages in one or more of the activities described in paragraph (a) of this section. Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, a U.S. financial institution shall not open or maintain a correspondent account or payable-through account in the United States in a manner that is inconsistent with any strict condition imposed and in effect pursuant to this paragraph. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Prohibiting or restricting any provision of trade finance through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution;
(2) Restricting the transactions that may be processed through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution to certain types of transactions, such as personal remittances;
(3) Placing monetary limits on, or limiting the volume of, the transactions that may be processed through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution;
(4) Requiring pre-approval from the U.S. financial institution for all transactions processed through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution; or
(5) Prohibiting or restricting the processing of foreign exchange transactions through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# ) of § 561.201:
The name of the foreign financial institution, together with the actual strict condition or conditions to be imposed, will be added to the CAPTA List on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site (
www.treasury.gov/ofac
), and published in the
Federal Register.
(c) If the Secretary of the Treasury does not impose one or more strict conditions, pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, on the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution that the Secretary finds engages in one or more of the activities described in paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary, consistent with CISADA, will prohibit the opening or maintaining by a U.S. financial institution of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for that foreign financial institution. Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, a U.S. financial institution shall not open or maintain a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution for which the opening or maintaining of such an account is prohibited pursuant to this paragraph.

# Note to paragraph (
c

# ) of § 561.201:
The names of foreign financial institutions for
which the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States is prohibited will be listed on the CAPTA List on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site (
www.treasury.gov/ofac
), and published in the
Federal Register.

# Note to § 561.201:
The CAPTA List will specify whether U.S. financial institutions are required to:
(1) Impose strict conditions on the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a particular foreign financial institution pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section;
(2) Prohibit the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a particular foreign financial institution pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section;
(3) Prohibit the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a particular foreign financial institution pursuant to § 561.203(a)(1) and (a)(2)(i); or
(4) Prohibit the opening of a correspondent account or a payable-through account and impose strict conditions on maintaining a preexisting correspondent account or a payable-through account for a particular foreign financial institution pursuant to § 561.203(a)(1) and (a)(2)(ii). Where applicable, the CAPTA List also will specify the strict condition or conditions to be imposed on the correspondent account or the payable-through account.
[77 FR 11726, Feb. 27, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 66919, Nov. 8, 2012; 84 FR 9457, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 561.202
Prohibitions on persons owned or controlled by U.S. financial institutions.
Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, any person that is owned or controlled by a U.S. financial institution is prohibited from knowingly engaging in any transaction with or benefitting Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its agents or affiliates whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) (“IEEPA”).

# Note 1 to § 561.202:
The names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to IEEPA are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (the “SDN List”). The SDN List is accessible through the following page on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. Agents or affiliates of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (“IRGC”) whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to IEEPA are identified by a special reference to the “IRGC” at the end of their entries on the SDN List, in addition to the reference to the regulatory part of this chapter pursuant to which their property and interests in property are blocked. For example, an affiliate of the IRGC whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferators Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 544, will have the tag “[NPWMD] [IRGC]” at the end of its entry on the SDN List. In addition, see § 561.405 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked.

# Note 2 to § 561.202:
A U.S. financial institution is subject to the civil penalties provided for in section 206(b) of IEEPA if any person that it owns or controls violates the prohibition set forth in this section and the U.S. financial institution knew or should have known of such violation.
See
§ 561.701(a)(2).
§ 561.203
NDAA-based sanctions on certain foreign financial institutions.
(a)
Imposition of
sanctions.
Subject to the limitations, exceptions, and conditions set forth in paragraphs (d) through (k) of this section, upon a determination by the Secretary of the Treasury that a foreign financial institution has knowingly conducted or facilitated any significant financial transaction with the Central Bank of Iran or a designated Iranian financial institution, consistent with section 1245 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Pub. L. 112-81) (22 U.S.C. 8513a) (the “2012 NDAA”), as amended by the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (Pub. L. 112-158) (22 U.S.C. 8701-8795) (the “TRA”), the Secretary of the Treasury:
(1) Will prohibit U.S. financial institutions from opening a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for the foreign financial institution with respect to which the determination has been made; and either
(2)(i) Will prohibit U.S. financial institutions from maintaining a correspondent account or a payable-
through account in the United States for the foreign financial institution with respect to which the determination has been made; or
(ii) Will impose one or more strict conditions on the maintaining of any correspondent account or payable-through account that had been opened in the United States for the foreign financial institution prior to the Secretary of the Treasury's determination with respect to the foreign financial institution.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# ) of § 561.203:
The names of
designated Iranian financial institutions
are identified on the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (the “SDN List”) on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site with the tag “[NDAA]” at the end of their entries, in addition to the reference to the regulatory part of this chapter pursuant to which their property and interests in property are blocked. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
a

# ) of § 561.203:
The name of any foreign financial institution with respect to which a determination has been made pursuant to this paragraph (a), along with the relevant sanctions to be imposed (prohibition(s) and/or strict condition(s)), will be added to the List of Foreign Financial Institutions Subject to Correspondent Account or Payable-Through Account Sanctions (CAPTA List), which is maintained on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site (
www.treasury.gov/ofac
), and published in the
Federal Register.
(b)
Strict conditions.
The strict conditions that might be imposed on the maintaining of a pre-existing correspondent account or payable-through account for a foreign financial institution pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Prohibiting or restricting any provision of trade finance through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution;
(2) Restricting the transactions that may be processed through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution to certain types of transactions, such as personal remittances;
(3) Placing monetary limits on, or limiting the volume of, the transactions that may be processed through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution;
(4) Requiring pre-approval from the U.S. financial institution for all transactions processed through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution; or
(5) Prohibiting or restricting the processing of foreign exchange transactions through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution.
(c)
Prohibitions.
(1) Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, a U.S. financial institution shall not open a correspondent account or payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution for which the opening of such an account is prohibited pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(2) Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, a U.S. financial institution shall not maintain a correspondent account or payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution for which the maintaining of such an account is prohibited pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.
(3) Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, a U.S. financial institution shall not maintain a correspondent account or payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution in a manner that is inconsistent with any strict condition imposed and in effect pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.
(d)
Privately owned
foreign financial
institutions.
(1) Subject to the exceptions set forth in paragraphs (g) and (i) through (k) of this section, sanctions may be imposed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section beginning on February 29, 2012, with respect to any significant financial transaction conducted or facilitated by a privately owned foreign financial institution that is not for the purchase of petroleum or petroleum products from Iran.
(2) Subject to the exceptions and conditions set forth in paragraphs (h) through (k) of this section, sanctions may be imposed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section with respect to any
significant financial transaction conducted or facilitated by a privately owned foreign financial institution on or after June 28, 2012, for the purchase of petroleum or petroleum products from Iran.
(e)
Government-owned or
-controlled foreign
financial institutions,
excluding foreign
central banks.
(1) Subject to the exceptions and conditions set forth in paragraphs (h) through (k) of this section, sanctions may be imposed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section with respect to any significant financial transaction conducted or facilitated by a foreign financial institution owned or controlled by the government of a foreign country, excluding a central bank of a foreign country, on or after June 28, 2012, for the sale or purchase of petroleum or petroleum products to or from Iran.
(2) Subject to the exceptions and conditions set forth in paragraphs (g) and (i) through (k) of this section, sanctions may be imposed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section with respect to any significant financial transaction conducted or facilitated by a foreign financial institution owned or controlled by the government of a foreign country, excluding a central bank of a foreign country, on or after February 6, 2013, that is not for the sale or purchase of petroleum or petroleum products to or from Iran.
(f)
Foreign central
banks.
Subject to the exceptions and conditions set forth in paragraphs (h) through (k) of this section, sanctions may be imposed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section on a central bank of a foreign country only insofar as it engages in a financial transaction for the sale or purchase of petroleum or petroleum products to or from Iran conducted or facilitated on or after June 28, 2012.
(g) Sanctions will not be imposed under paragraph (a) of this section with respect to any foreign financial institution for conducting or facilitating a transaction for the sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices to Iran.
(h) The Secretary of the Treasury may impose sanctions pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section with respect to any significant financial transaction conducted or facilitated by a foreign financial institution on or after June 28, 2012, for the purchase of petroleum or petroleum products from Iran only if the President determines, not later than March 30, 2012, and every 180 days thereafter, that there is a sufficient supply of petroleum and petroleum products from countries other than Iran to permit a significant reduction in petroleum and petroleum products purchased from Iran by or through foreign financial institutions. Such successive sufficiency determinations by the President shall render subject to sanctions under paragraph (a) of this section those financial transactions conducted or facilitated by a foreign financial institution for the purchase of petroleum or petroleum products from Iran during each successive 180-day period beginning 90 days after the President's determination.

# Note to paragraph (
h

# ) of § 561.203:
Under Section 1245(d)(4)(B) of the 2012 NDAA, the President is to make a determination, not later than March 30, 2012, and every 180 days thereafter, of whether the price and supply of petroleum and petroleum products produced in countries other than Iran is sufficient to permit purchasers of petroleum and petroleum products from Iran to reduce significantly their purchases from Iran. This determination is to be based on reports on the availability and price of petroleum and petroleum products produced in countries other than Iran that, pursuant to section 1245(d)(4)(A) of the 2012 NDAA, the Administrator of the Energy Information Administration, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of State, and the Director of National Intelligence, was to submit to Congress beginning not later than February 29, 2012, and every 60 days thereafter. Beginning September 1, 2012, pursuant to section 1245(d)(4)(A) of the 2012 NDAA, as amended by section 503(b) of the TRA, the report of the Administrator of the Energy Information Administration is to be submitted to Congress not later than October 25, 2012, and the last Thursday of every other month thereafter.
(i) Sanctions will not be imposed under paragraph (a) of this section with respect to a financial transaction described in paragraph (j) of this section that is conducted or facilitated by a foreign financial institution if, for the 180-day period during which the financial transaction is conducted or facilitated, the Secretary of State has determined and reported to Congress:
(1) That the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution has significantly reduced its crude oil purchases from Iran, thus qualifying for a “significant reduction exception” for the 180-day period during which the financial transaction is conducted or facilitated; or
(2) That the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution has received a significant reduction exception described in this paragraph in a previous period and, after receiving the exception, has reduced its crude oil purchases from Iran to zero during a subsequent 180-day reporting period.

# Note to paragraph (
i

# ) of § 561.203:
The Secretary of State is to determine whether a country qualifies for the “significant reduction exception” and report such determination to Congress not later than 90 days after the date on which the President makes the initial determination referenced in paragraph (h) of this section, and every 180 days thereafter. Accordingly, a significant reduction exception covers a period of 180 days.
(j) A financial transaction conducted or facilitated by a foreign financial institution is described in this paragraph (j) if:
(1) The financial transaction is only for trade in goods or services that either originate in the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution and are exported and sold directly to Iran or originate in Iran and are exported and sold directly to the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution;
(2) Any funds owed to the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution as a result of such trade are paid to:
(i) Individuals who are citizens, nationals, or permanent residents of the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution; or
(ii) Entities organized under the laws of the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution that are not the Government of Iran, as defined in § 561.321;
(3) Any funds owed to Iran as a result of such trade are subject to the terms and conditions set forth in paragraph (k) of this section; and
(4) Funds owed as a result of such trade are not credited to an account held at any financial institution whose name appears on the List of Foreign Financial Institutions Subject to Correspondent Account or Payable-Through Account Sanctions (CAPTA List), which is maintained on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site (
www.treasury.gov/ofac
).
(k) In order for a transaction to qualify for the significant reduction exception from the sanctions imposed under paragraph (a) of this section described in paragraph (i), all funds owed to Iran as a result of a trade transaction described in paragraph (j)(1) of this section must be subject to the following conditions and restrictions:
(1) The funds must be credited to an account held at a foreign financial institution that conducted or facilitated the trade transaction described in paragraph (j)(1) of this section;
(2) The funds must be credited to an account held in the country with primary jurisdiction over that foreign financial institution;
(3) The funds must be credited to an account held in the name of the Central Bank of Iran, the Iranian party to the trade transaction, or an Iranian financial institution that is not a designated Iranian financial institution;
(4) Payments from the funds may be made only in the manner and to the persons specified in paragraph (k)(5) of this section for amounts owed to such persons for the direct exportation and sale to Iran of goods or services originating in the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution holding the funds (
but see
Note 2 to § 561.203);
(5) Payments from the funds for the goods or services exported and sold to Iran, as described in paragraph (k)(4) of this section, may be made only by check payable to or to the order of, or by transfer to an account at a foreign financial institution in the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution holding the funds that is held in the name of:
(i) Individuals who are citizens, nationals, or permanent residents of the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution holding the funds; or
(ii) Entities that are organized under the laws of that country;
(6) The funds may not be withdrawn in cash, remitted to Iran or paid to anyone that is the
Government of
Iran,
as defined in § 561.321, or credited to an account held at a financial institution whose name appears on the CAPTA List (see paragraph (j)(4) of this section); and
(7) Other than in payment for goods or services exported and sold to Iran as set forth in paragraphs (k)(4) through (k)(6) of this section, the funds may be transferred from the initial account described in paragraphs (k)(1) through (k)(3) of this section only to another account that is held at the same foreign financial institution, located in the country with primary jurisdiction over that foreign financial institution, and subject to the following conditions and restrictions:
(i) The account must be a separate, special purpose account holding only funds owed to Iran as a result of trade transactions that qualify for the significant reduction exception described in paragraph (i) of this section and that are conducted or facilitated by the foreign financial institution holding the account; and
(ii) The conditions and restrictions on the funds owed to Iran set forth in paragraphs (k)(1) through (k)(6) of this section apply in full to the account described in this paragraph, except that the account must be held only in the name of the Central Bank of Iran or an Iranian financial institution that is not a designated Iranian financial institution.

# Note to paragraphs (
j

# ) and (
k

# ) of § 561.203:
See
§ 561.408 for a provision interpreting the phrases goods or services originating in the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution and goods or services originating in Iran.

# Note 1 to § 561.203:
The sanctions regime described in § 561.203 is separate from the sanctions regimes described in §§ 561.201 and 561.204 and applies in addition to, and independently of, the sanctions regimes imposed under §§ 561.201 and 561.204.

# Note 2 to § 561.203:
Paragraph (g) of this section excepts transactions for the sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices to Iran from the imposition of sanctions under paragraph (a) of this section. Therefore, funds owed to Iran as a result of a trade transaction described in paragraph (j)(1) of this section may be used for the purchase and export to Iran of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices regardless of the country from which such goods are purchased and regardless of where such goods originate, and payment from the funds for such goods may be made to exporters in countries other than the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution holding the funds.
[77 FR 11726, Feb. 27, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 16405, Mar. 15, 2013; 84 FR 9457, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 561.204
Additional petroleum-related sanctions on certain foreign financial institutions.
(a)
Imposition of sanctions.
Subject to the limitations, exceptions, and conditions set forth in paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section, upon a determination by the Secretary of the Treasury that a foreign financial institution has knowingly engaged in one or more of the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury may:
(1) Prohibit U.S. financial institutions from opening a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for the foreign financial institution with respect to which the determination has been made; and either
(2)(i) Prohibit U.S. financial institutions from maintaining a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for the foreign financial institution with respect to which the determination has been made; or
(ii) Impose one or more strict conditions on the maintaining of any correspondent account or payable-through account that had been opened in the United States for the foreign financial institution prior to the Secretary of the Treasury's determination with respect to the foreign financial institution.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# ) of § 561.204:
The name of any foreign financial institution with respect to which a determination has been made pursuant to this paragraph (a), along with the relevant sanctions to be imposed (prohibition(s) and/or strict condition(s)), will be added to the List of Foreign
Financial Institutions Subject to Correspondent Account or Payable-Through Account Sanctions (CAPTA List), which is maintained on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site (
www.treasury.gov/ofac
), and published in the
Federal Register.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
a

# ) of § 561.204:
See
§ 561.203(b) for examples of strict conditions that might be imposed, pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, on the maintaining of a pre-existing correspondent account or payable-through account for a foreign financial institution with respect to which the Secretary of the Treasury's determination has been made.
(b)
Sanctionable activity.
A foreign financial institution engages in an activity described in this paragraph if it knowingly conducts or facilitates any significant financial transaction:
(1) With the National Iranian Oil Company (“NIOC”), the Naftiran Intertrade Company (“NICO”), or any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for or on behalf of, NIOC or NICO, except for a sale or provision to any of the foregoing of the products described in section 5(a)(3)(A)(i) of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-172) (50 U.S.C. 1701 note), as amended, provided that the fair market value of such products is lower than the applicable dollar threshold specified in that provision;

# Note to paragraph (
b

# )(1) of § 561.204:
As of March 15, 2013, the products described in section 5(a)(3)(A)(i) of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-172) (50 U.S.C. 1701 note), as amended, are refined petroleum products, and for the fair market value of such products to be lower than the applicable dollar threshold specified in that provision the products sold or provided to NIOC, NICO, or any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for or on behalf of, NIOC or NICO, must have a fair market value of less than $1,000,000, and, during a 12-month period, an aggregate fair market value of less than $5,000,000.
(2) For the purchase or acquisition of petroleum or petroleum products from Iran; or
(3) For the purchase or acquisition of petrochemical products from Iran.
(c)
Prohibitions.
(1) A U.S. financial institution shall not open a correspondent account or payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution for which the opening of such an account is prohibited pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(2) A U.S. financial institution shall not maintain a correspondent account or payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution for which the maintaining of such an account is prohibited pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.
(3) A U.S. financial institution shall not maintain a correspondent account or payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution in a manner that is inconsistent with any strict condition imposed and in effect pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.
(4) The prohibitions in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section apply except to the extent transactions are authorized by regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contracts entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of the prohibition.
(d)
Exempt activity.
Sanctions will not be imposed under paragraph (a) of this section with respect to any foreign financial institution for:
(1) Conducting or facilitating a transaction for the sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices to Iran or when the underlying transaction has been authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control pursuant to any part of this chapter V; or
(2) Conducting or facilitating a transaction involving a natural gas development and pipeline project initiated prior to July 31, 2012, to bring gas from Azerbaijan to Europe and Turkey in furtherance of a production sharing agreement or license awarded by a sovereign government other than the Government of Iran before July 31, 2012.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# )(2) of § 561.204:
The natural gas development and pipeline project referred to in this paragraph is the project to develop the Shah Deniz natural gas field in Azerbaijan's sector of the Caspian Sea and related pipeline projects to bring the gas from Azerbaijan to Europe and Turkey.
(e) The Secretary of the Treasury may impose sanctions pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section with respect to any significant financial transaction described in paragraphs
(b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section only if the President makes the successive determinations that there is a sufficient supply of petroleum and petroleum products from countries other than Iran described in paragraph (h) of § 561.203.
(f) Sanctions will not be imposed under paragraph (a) of this section with respect to any significant financial transaction described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section that is conducted or facilitated by a foreign financial institution if:
(1) For the 180-day period during which the financial transaction is conducted or facilitated, the Secretary of State has determined and reported to Congress:
(i) That the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution has significantly reduced its crude oil purchases from Iran, thus qualifying for the “significant reduction exception” for the 180-day period during which the financial transaction is conducted or facilitated; or
(ii) That the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution has received a significant reduction exception described in this paragraph in a previous period, and, after receiving the exception, has reduced its crude oil purchases from Iran to zero during a subsequent 180-day reporting period; and
(2) The transaction satisfies the conditions and restrictions set forth in paragraphs (j) and (k) of § 561.203.

# Note to paragraph (
f

# ) of § 561.204:
The Secretary of State is to determine whether a country qualifies for the “significant reduction exception” and report such determination to Congress not later than 90 days after the date on which the President makes the initial determination referenced in paragraph (h) of this section, and every 180 days thereafter. Accordingly, a significant reduction exception covers a period of 180 days.

# Note to § 561.204:
The sanctions regime described in this section is separate from the sanctions regimes described in §§ 561.201 and 561.203 and applies in addition to, and independently of, the sanctions regimes imposed under §§ 561.201 and 561.203.
[78 FR 16407, Mar. 15, 2013, as amended at 84 FR 9457, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 561.205
Metals-related sanctions on certain foreign financial institutions.
(a)
Imposition of sanctions.
Subject to the exemptions set forth in paragraph (d) of this section, upon a determination by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, that a foreign financial institution has, on or after May 8, 2019, knowingly engaged in one or more of the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury may:
(1) Prohibit U.S. financial institutions from opening a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for the foreign financial institution with respect to which the determination has been made; and either
(2)(i) Prohibit U.S. financial institutions from maintaining a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for the foreign financial institution with respect to which the determination has been made; or
(ii) Impose one or more strict conditions on the maintaining of a correspondent account or payable-through account in the United States for the foreign financial institution with respect to which the determination has been made.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# ):
The name of any foreign financial institution with respect to which a determination has been made pursuant to this paragraph (a), along with the relevant sanctions to be imposed (prohibition(s) and/or strict condition(s)), will be added to the List of Foreign Financial Institutions Subject to Correspondent Account or Payable-Through Account Sanctions (CAPTA List), which is maintained on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's website (
www.treasury.gov/ofac
), and published in the
Federal Register
.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
a

# ):
See
§ 561.203(b) for examples of strict conditions that might be imposed, pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, on the maintaining of a correspondent account or payable-through account for a foreign financial institution with respect to which the Secretary of the Treasury's determination has been made.
(b)
Sanctionable activity.
A foreign financial institution has engaged in an activity described in this paragraph if it knowingly conducted or facilitated,
on or after May 8, 2019, any significant financial transaction:
(1) For the sale, supply, or transfer to Iran of significant goods or services used in connection with the iron, steel, aluminum, or copper sectors of Iran;
(2) For the purchase, acquisition, sale, transport, or marketing of iron, iron products, aluminum, aluminum products, steel, steel products, copper, or copper products from Iran; or
(3) For or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to Executive Order 13871.
(c)
Prohibitions.
(1) A U.S. financial institution shall not open a correspondent account or payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution for which the opening of such an account is prohibited pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(2) A U.S. financial institution shall not maintain a correspondent account or payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution for which the maintaining of such an account is prohibited pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.
(3) A U.S. financial institution shall not maintain a correspondent account or payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution in a manner that is inconsistent with any strict condition imposed and in effect pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.
(4) The prohibitions in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section apply except to the extent provided by regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
(d)
Exempt activity.
Nothing in this section shall apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the Federal Government or the United Nations (including its specialized agencies, programmes, funds, and related organizations) by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
[84 FR 38547, Aug. 7, 2019]
§ 561.220
Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.
(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
[78 FR 16408, Mar. 15, 2013. Redesignated at 84 FR 38547, Aug. 7, 2019]

# Subpart C—General Definitions
§ 561.301
Effective date.
(a) The effective date of a prohibition or condition imposed pursuant to §§ 561.201, 561.203, 561.204, or 561.205 on the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States by a U.S. financial institution for a particular foreign financial institution is the earlier of the date the U.S. financial institution receives actual or constructive notice of such prohibition or condition.
(b) The effective date of the prohibition contained in § 561.202 with respect to Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and any of its agents or affiliates whose property and interests in property are blocked as of August 16, 2010, is August 16, 2010.
(c) The effective date of the prohibition contained in § 561.202 with respect to an agent or affiliate of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps whose property and interests in property become blocked after August 16, 2010, is the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(d) For the purposes of this section,
constructive notice
is the date that notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.
[77 FR 11726, Feb. 27, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 16408, Mar. 15, 2013; 84 FR 38547, Aug. 7, 2019]
§ 561.302
UNSC Resolution 1737.
The term
UNSC Resolution
1737
means United Nations Security Council Resolution 1737, adopted December 23, 2006.
§ 561.303
UNSC Resolution 1747.
The term
UNSC Resolution
1747
means United Nations Security Council Resolution 1747, adopted March 24, 2007.
§ 561.304
UNSC Resolution 1803.
The term
UNSC Resolution
1803
means United Nations Security Council Resolution 1803, adopted March 3, 2008.
§ 561.305
UNSC Resolution 1929.
The term
UNSC Resolution
1929
means United Nations Security Council Resolution 1929, adopted June 9, 2010.
§ 561.306
Correspondent account.
The term
correspondent account
means an account established by a U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution to receive deposits from, or to make payments on behalf of, the foreign financial institution, or to handle other financial transactions related to such foreign financial institution.
§ 561.307
Payable-through account.
The term
payable-through account
means a correspondent account maintained by a U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution by means of which the foreign financial institution permits its customers to engage, either directly or through a subaccount, in banking activities usual in connection with the business of banking in the United States.
§ 561.308
Foreign financial institution.
The term
foreign financial institution
means any foreign entity that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes but is not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money service businesses, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and holding companies, affiliates, or subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. The term does not include the international financial institutions identified in 22 U.S.C. 262r(c)(2), the International Fund for Agricultural Development, the North American Development Bank, or any other international financial institution so notified by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
[77 FR 66920, Nov. 8, 2012]
§ 561.309
U.S. financial institution.
The term
U.S. financial
institution
means any U.S. entity that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes but is not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money service businesses, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
§ 561.310
Money laundering.
The term
money laundering
means engaging in deceptive practices to obscure the nature of transactions involving the movement of illicit cash or illicit cash equivalent proceeds into, out of, or through a country, or into, out of, or through a financial institution, such that the transactions are made to appear legitimate.
§ 561.311
Agent.
The term
agent
includes an entity established by a person for purposes of conducting transactions on behalf of the person in order to conceal the identity of the person.
§ 561.312
Act of international terrorism.
The term
act of
international terrorism
has the same definition as that provided under section 14 of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note). As of February 27, 2012, the term
act of
international terrorism
means an act which is violent or dangerous to human life and that is a violation of the criminal laws of the United States or of any state or that would be a criminal violation if committed within the jurisdiction of the United States or any state and which appears to be intended to intimidate or coerce a civilian population; to influence the policy of a government by intimidation or coercion; or to affect the conduct of a government by assassination or kidnapping.
§ 561.313
Financial services.
The term
financial services
includes loans, transfers, accounts, insurance, investments, securities, guarantees, foreign exchange, letters of credit, and commodity futures or options.
§ 561.314
Knowingly.
The term
knowingly,
with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result.
§ 561.315
Person.
The term
person
means an individual or entity.
§ 561.316
Entity.
The term
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, or other organization.
§ 561.317
Money service businesses.
The term
money service
businesses
means any agent, agency, branch, or office of any person doing business, whether or not on a regular basis or as an organized business concern, in one or more of the capacities listed in 31 CFR 103.11(uu)(1) through (5). The term does not include a bank or a person registered with, and regulated or examined by, the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
§ 561.318
Petroleum.
The term
petroleum
(also known as crude oil) means a mixture of hydrocarbons that exists in liquid phase in natural underground reservoirs and remains liquid at atmospheric pressure after passing through surface separating facilities.
[78 FR 16408, Mar. 15, 2013]
§ 561.319
Petroleum products.
The term
petroleum products
includes unfinished oils, liquefied petroleum gases, pentanes plus, aviation gasoline, motor gasoline, naphtha-type jet fuel, kerosene-type jet fuel, kerosene, distillate fuel oil, residual fuel oil, petrochemical feedstocks, special naphthas, lubricants, waxes, petroleum coke, asphalt, road oil, still gas, and miscellaneous products obtained from the processing of crude oil (including lease condensate), natural gas, and other hydrocarbon compounds. The term does not include natural gas, liquefied natural gas, biofuels, methanol, and other non-petroleum fuels.
§ 561.320
Iranian financial institution.
The term
Iranian financial institution
means any entity (including foreign branches), wherever located, organized under the laws of Iran or any jurisdiction within Iran, or owned or controlled by the Government of Iran, or in Iran, or owned or controlled by any of the foregoing, that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes but is not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money service businesses, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange
merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and holding companies, affiliates, or subsidiaries of any of the foregoing.
[77 FR 66920, Nov. 8, 2012]
§ 561.321
Government of Iran.
The term
Government of
Iran
includes:
(a) The state and the Government of Iran, as well as any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof;
(b) Any entity owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the foregoing;
(c) Any person to the extent that such person is, or has been, or to the extent that there is reasonable cause to believe that such person is, or has been, acting or purporting to act directly or indirectly on behalf of any of the foregoing; and
(d) Any person or entity identified by the Secretary of the Treasury to be the Government of Iran under 31 CFR part 560.
§ 561.322
Entity owned or controlled by the Government of Iran.
The phrase
entity owned
or controlled
by the
Government of
Iran
means any entity, including a financial institution, in which the Government of Iran owns a 50 percent or greater interest or a controlling interest, and any entity, including a financial institution, which is otherwise controlled by that government.
§ 561.323
Foreign financial institution owned or controlled by the government of a foreign country.
The phrase
foreign financial
institution owned
or controlled
by the
government of
a foreign
country
means any foreign financial institution, including a central bank of a foreign country, in which a government of a foreign country owns a 50 percent or greater interest and any foreign financial institution which is otherwise controlled by a government of a foreign country.
§ 561.324
Designated Iranian financial institution.
The term
designated Iranian
financial institution
means any Iranian financial institution whose property and interests in property are blocked by the Department of the Treasury pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order issued pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) and whose name is listed on the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site, except for any Iranian financial institution whose property and interests in property are blocked solely pursuant to Executive Order 13599 of February 5, 2012.

# Note to § 561.324:
Facilitating significant transactions or providing significant financial services for a financial institution whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to parts 544 or 594 of this chapter in connection with Iran's proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or delivery systems for weapons of mass destruction or Iran's support for international terrorism has, since the enactment of CISADA on July 1, 2010, constituted an activity that could subject a foreign financial institution to prohibitions or strict conditions on correspondent accounts or payable-through accounts in the United States. See § 561.201.
§ 561.325
Financial transaction.
The term
financial transaction
means any transfer of value involving a financial institution.
§ 561.326
Privately owned foreign financial institution.
The phrase
privately owned
foreign financial
institution
means any foreign financial institution that is not owned or controlled by the government of a foreign country.
§ 561.327
Agricultural commodities, food, medicine, and medical devices.
(a) The term
agricultural commodities
means:
(1) Products not listed on the Commerce Control List in the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR part 774, supplement no. 1, that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(2) Products not listed on the Commerce Control List in the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR part
774, supplement no. 1, that are intended for ultimate use in Iran as:
(i) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(ii) Seeds for food crops;
(iii) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(iv) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(b) The term
food
means items that are intended to be consumed by and provide nutrition to humans or animals in Iran, including vitamins and minerals, food additives and supplements, and bottled drinking water, and seeds that germinate into items that are intended to be consumed by and provide nutrition to humans or animals in Iran. For purposes of this definition, the term
food
does not include:
(1) Alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, gum, or fertilizer; and
(2) The following excluded food items: castor beans, castor bean seeds, raw eggs, fertilized eggs (other than fish and shrimp roe), dried egg albumin, live animals, Rosary/Jequirity peas, non-food-grade gelatin powder, and peptones and their derivatives.
(c) The term
medicine
has the same meaning given the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321) but does not include any item listed on the Commerce Control List in the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR part 774, supplement no. 1 (excluding items classified as EAR 99).
(d) The term
medical devices
has the meaning given the term “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321) but does not include any item listed on the Commerce Control List in the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR part 774, supplement no. 1 (excluding items classified as EAR 99).
[77 FR 11726, Feb. 27, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 16408, Mar. 15, 2013]
§ 561.328
Reduce significantly, significantly reduced, and significant reduction.
The terms
reduce significantly,
significantly reduced,
and
significant reduction,
used with respect to purchases from Iran of petroleum and petroleum products, include a reduction in such purchases in terms of price or volume toward a complete cessation of such purchases.
[78 FR 16408, Mar. 15, 2013]
§ 561.329
Iran.
The term
Iran
means the Government of Iran and the territory of Iran and any other territory or marine area, including the exclusive economic zone and continental shelf, over which the Government of Iran claims sovereignty, sovereign rights, or jurisdiction, provided that the Government of Iran exercises partial or total de facto control over the area or derives a benefit from economic activity in the area pursuant to international arrangements.
[78 FR 16408, Mar. 15, 2013]
§ 561.330
Petrochemical products.
The term
petrochemical products
includes any aromatic, olefin, and synthesis gas, and any of their derivatives, including ethylene, propylene, butadiene, benzene, toluene, xylene, ammonia, methanol, and urea.
[78 FR 16409, Mar. 15, 2013]
§ 561.331
Aluminum, aluminum products.
The terms
aluminum
and
aluminum products
mean any raw, semi-fabricated, fabricated, or finished form of aluminum or aluminum alloy of all grades, sizes, and thicknesses, including in the following forms: Ores and concentrates (
e.g.,
bauxite and alumina); unwrought aluminum including ingots, slabs, and billets; powders and flakes; wrought aluminum including bars, rods, profiles, plates, sheets, strip, foil, tubes, and pipes; tube or pipe fittings; reservoirs, tanks, vats, and similar containers; wire, stranded wire, ropes, cables, and plaited band; castings, stampings, and forgings; waste and scrap, including slag, and
any aluminum and aluminum products produced from the melting or recycling of aluminum scrap.
[84 FR 38547, Aug. 7, 2019]
§ 561.332
Aluminum sector of Iran.
The term
aluminum sector of Iran
means the mining, refining, processing, or manufacturing of aluminum or aluminum products in Iran.
[84 FR 38547, Aug. 7, 2019]
§ 561.333
Copper, copper products.
The terms
copper
and
copper products
mean any raw, semi-fabricated, fabricated, or finished form of copper or copper alloy of all grades, sizes, and thicknesses, including in the following forms: Ores and concentrates; copper mattes, cement copper (precipitated copper); refined, unrefined, wrought, or unwrought copper; billets; cathodes; bars, rods, profiles, plates, sheets, strips, foil, tubes, and pipes; tube and pipe fittings; powders and flakes; reservoirs, tanks, vats, and similar containers; wire, stranded wire, ropes, cables, and plaited band; castings, stampings, and forgings; and waste and scrap, including slag.
[84 FR 38547, Aug. 7, 2019]
§ 561.334
Copper sector of Iran.
The term
copper sector of Iran
means the mining, refining, processing, or manufacturing of copper or copper products in Iran.
[84 FR 38547, Aug. 7, 2019]
§ 561.335
Iron, iron products, steel, steel products.
The terms
iron, iron products, steel,
and
steel products
mean any raw, semi-fabricated, fabricated, or finished form of iron, iron alloy, alloy steel, non-alloy steel, ferroalloys, pig iron, and spiegeleisen of all grades, sizes, and thicknesses, whether or not clad, plated, or coated, including in the following forms: Iron ores and concentrates including roasted iron pyrites; pigs and blocks; ferrous products obtained by direct reduction of iron ore and other spongy ferrous products, in lumps or pellets; granules and powders; ingots, blooms billets, slabs, and beam blanks; flat-rolled products (plates, sheets, strips, and foils) either cut-to-length or in coils; bars, and rods; structural profiles (beams, channels, angles, and other shapes); sheet piling; railway or tramway track construction materials; tubes, pipes, and hollow profiles; tube or pipe fittings; reservoirs, tanks, vats, and similar containers; wire, stranded wire, ropes, cables, and plaited band; castings, stampings, and forgings; and ferrous waste and scrap, including slag.
[84 FR 38547, Aug. 7, 2019]
§ 561.336
Iron sector of Iran.
The term
iron sector of Iran
means the mining, refining, processing, or manufacturing of iron or iron products in Iran.
[84 FR 38547, Aug. 7, 2019]
§ 561.337
Steel sector of Iran.
The term
steel sector of Iran
means the iron-ore smelting, ferrous-scrap melting, refining, processing, or manufacturing of steel or steel products in Iran.
[84 FR 38547, Aug. 7, 2019]

# Subpart D—Interpretations
§ 561.401
Reference to amended sections.
Except as otherwise specified, reference to any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or to any regulation, ruling, order, instruction, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part refers to the same as currently amended.
§ 561.402
Effect of amendment.
Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment,
modification, or revocation had not been made.
§ 561.403
Facilitation of certain efforts, activities, or transactions by foreign financial institutions.
For purposes of §§ 561.201, 561.203, 561.204, and 561.205, the term
facilitate
or
facilitated
used with respect to certain efforts, activities, or transactions refers to the provision of assistance by a foreign financial institution for those efforts, activities, or transactions, including the provision of currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; purchasing; selling; transporting; swapping; brokering; financing; approving; guaranteeing; or the provision of other services of any kind; or the provision of personnel; or the provision of software, technology, or goods of any kind.
[84 FR 38548, Aug. 7, 2019]
§ 561.404
Significant transaction or transactions; significant financial services; significant financial transaction.
In determining, for purposes of paragraph (a)(5) of § 561.201, whether a transaction is significant, whether transactions are significant, or whether financial services are significant, or, for purposes of paragraph (a) of § 561.203, paragraph (b) of § 561.204, and paragraph (b) of § 561.205 whether a financial transaction is significant, the Secretary of the Treasury may consider the totality of the facts and circumstances. As a general matter, the Secretary may consider some or all of the following factors:
(a)
Size, number, and frequency.
The size, number, and frequency of transactions, financial services, or financial transactions performed over a period of time, including whether the transactions, financial services, or financial transactions are increasing or decreasing over time and the rate of increase or decrease.
(b)
Nature.
The nature of the transaction(s), financial services, or financial transaction, including the type, complexity, and commercial purpose of the transaction(s), financial services, or financial transaction.
(c)
Level of Awareness; Pattern of Conduct.
(1) Whether the transaction(s), financial services, or financial transaction is performed with the involvement or approval of management or only by clerical personnel; and (2) Whether the transaction(s), financial services, or financial transaction is part of a pattern of conduct or the result of a business development strategy.
(d)
Nexus.
The proximity between the foreign financial institution engaging in the transaction(s) or providing the financial services and a blocked person described in paragraph (a)(5) of § 561.201, or between the foreign financial institution conducting or facilitating the financial transaction described in paragraph (a) of § 561.203 and the Central Bank of Iran or a designated Iranian financial institution, as defined in § 561.324, or between the foreign financial institution conducting or facilitating the financial transaction described in paragraph (b) of § 561.204 and the National Iranian Oil Company (“NIOC”), the Naftiran Intertrade Company (“NICO”), any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for or on behalf of, NIOC or NICO, or the activities described in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of that section. For example, a transaction or financial service in which a foreign financial institution provides brokerage or clearing services to, or maintains an account or makes payments for, a blocked person described in paragraph (a)(5) of § 561.201, the Central Bank of Iran, a designated Iranian financial institution, NIOC, or NICO in a direct customer relationship generally would be of greater significance than a transaction or financial service a foreign financial institution conducts for or provides to a blocked person described in paragraph (a)(5) of § 561.201, the Central Bank of Iran, a designated Iranian financial institution, NIOC, or NICO indirectly or in a tertiary relationship.
(e)
Impact.
The impact of the transaction(s) or financial services on the objectives of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010, as amended by the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (“TRA”), or of the financial transaction on the objectives of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012, as
amended by TRA, or of the financial transaction on the objectives of Executive Order 13622 of July 30, 2012, including:
(1) The economic or other benefit conferred or attempted to be conferred on a blocked person described in paragraph (a)(5) of § 561.201, on the Central Bank of Iran or a designated Iranian financial institution, or on NIOC, NICO, any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for or on behalf of, NIOC or NICO, or any person engaged in the activities described in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of § 561.204;
(2) Whether and how the transaction(s), financial services, or financial transaction contributes to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or delivery systems for such weapons, to support for international terrorism, to the suppression of human rights, to an increase in Iran's crude oil revenues, or to connecting the Central Bank of Iran or a designated Iranian financial institution to the international financial system; and
(3) Whether the transaction(s), financial services, or financial transaction supports humanitarian activity or involves the payment of basic expenses as specified in and authorized pursuant to UNSC Resolution 1737 or the payment of extraordinary expenses that have been authorized by the Sanctions Committee established pursuant to UNSC Resolution 1737, or the payment for the sale of food, medicine, or medical devices to Iran.
(f)
Deceptive practices:
Whether the transaction(s), financial services, or financial transaction involves an attempt to obscure or conceal the actual parties or true nature of the transaction(s), financial services, or financial transaction or to evade sanctions; for example, whether the transaction enabled the Central Bank of Iran to facilitate the evasion of sanctions by a blocked person described in § 561.201(a)(5) or a designated Iranian financial institution, as defined in § 561.324.
(g)
Central Bank of Iran Reserves, Settlement Services, Foreign Currency Exchanges, and Official Development Assistance Repayment:
Other factors involved in making a determination of whether a transaction(s), financial service, or financial transaction is significant are whether the transaction solely involves the passive holding of Central Bank of Iran reserves by a foreign financial institution; whether the Central Bank of Iran's role is limited to providing settlement services or foreign currency exchanges in transactions between a non-designated Iranian financial institution and a foreign financial institution; and whether the transaction involves only the repayment of official development assistance by the Central Bank of Iran or the transfer of funds required as a condition of Iran's membership in an international financial institution.
(h)
Other relevant factors.
Such other factors that the Secretary deems relevant on a case-by-case basis in determining the significance of a transaction(s), financial services, or financial transaction.
[77 FR 11726, Feb. 27, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 16409, Mar. 15, 2013; 84 FR 38548, Aug. 7, 2019]
§ 561.405
Entities owned by a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.
A person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) has an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which it owns, directly or indirectly, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
), regardless of whether the entity itself is listed on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List.
§ 561.406
Country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution.
For purposes of § 561.203(i) and § 561.204(f), a country includes any jurisdiction that has its own central bank or contains a separate financial sector authority, and a foreign financial institution (including its foreign
branches outside of the United States) is under a country's primary jurisdiction if the foreign financial institution is organized under the laws of the country or any jurisdiction within that country.
[78 FR 16409, Mar. 15, 2013]
§ 561.407
Conducting or facilitating a financial transaction with the Central Bank of Iran or a designated Iranian financial institution.
A foreign financial institution conducts or facilitates a financial transaction with the Central Bank of Iran or a designated Iranian financial institution if it maintains an account for such entities or engages in a financial transaction directly or indirectly with such entities.

# Note to § 561.407:
See § 561.404 for factors that may be considered in determining whether a financial transaction is significant, as required for the imposition of certain sanctions pursuant to this part.
§ 561.408
Goods or services originating in a country.
(a) Goods originating in a country are goods that have been grown, produced, manufactured, extracted, or processed, and goods that have been substantially transformed, in the country.
(b) Services originating in a country are services performed in that country or services performed in the country to which the services are being exported by a citizen, national, or permanent resident of the country from which the services originate who is ordinarily resident in that country.
(c) For purposes of this part, services originating in a country do not include the brokering of transactions for the sale and exportation of goods or services not originating in that country.
[78 FR 16409, Mar. 15, 2013]

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
§ 561.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part or conditions imposed pursuant to this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part.
§ 561.502
Effect of license or authorization.
(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction otherwise prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property which would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
§ 561.503
Exclusion from licenses.
The Office of Foreign Assets Control reserves the right to exclude any person, property, or transaction from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. The Office of Foreign Assets Control also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.
§ 561.504
Transactions related to closing a correspondent account or payable-through account.
(a) During the 10-day period beginning on the effective date of the prohibition in § 561.201(c), § 561.203(c)(2), § 561.204(c)(2), § 561.205(a), or § 561.205(c) on the maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a foreign financial institution whose name is added to the List of Foreign Financial Institutions Subject to Correspondent Account or Payable-Through Account Sanctions (CAPTA List), which is maintained on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's website (
www.treasury.gov/ofac
), U.S. financial institutions that maintain correspondent accounts or payable-through accounts for the foreign financial institution are authorized to:
(1) Process only those transactions through the account, or permit the foreign financial institution to execute only those transactions through the account, that are for the purpose of, and necessary for, closing the account; and
(2) Transfer the funds remaining in the correspondent account or the payable-through account to an account of the foreign financial institution located outside of the United States and close the correspondent account or the payable-through account.
(b) A report must be filed with the Office of Foreign Assets Control within 30 days of the closure of an account, providing full details on the closing of each correspondent account or payable-through account maintained by a U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution whose name is added to the CAPTA List, maintained on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site (
www.treasury.gov/ofac
). Such report must include complete information on the closing of the account and on all transactions processed or executed through the account pursuant to this section, including the account outside of the United States to which funds remaining in the account were transferred. Reports should be addressed to the attention of the Compliance Division, Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20220.
(c) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize transactions by a U.S. financial institution with respect to a correspondent account or a payable-through account maintained by the U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution whose name is added to the CAPTA List, that are outside the scope of the transactions authorized in paragraph (a) of this section and/or that occur beyond the 10-day period authorized in that paragraph. License applications should be filed in conformance with § 501.801 of the Reporting, Procedures and Penalties Regulations, 31 CFR part 501.
(d) Nothing in this section authorizes the opening of a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a foreign financial institution whose name appears on the CAPTA List.

# Note to § 561.504:
This section does not authorize a U.S. financial institution to unblock property or interests in property, or to engage in any transaction or dealing in property or interests in property, blocked pursuant to any other part of this chapter, in the process of closing a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a foreign financial institution whose name has been added to the CAPTA List, maintained on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site (
www.treasury.gov/ofac
).
See
§ 561.101.
[77 FR 11726, Feb. 27, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 16409, Mar. 15, 2013; 84 FR 9457, Mar. 15, 2019; 84 FR 38548, Aug. 7, 2019; 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]
§ 561.505
Official business of the United States Government.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[87 FR 78477, Dec. 21, 2022]

# Subpart F—Reports
§ 561.601
Records and reports.
For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter.

# Subpart G—Penalties
§ 561.701
Penalties.
(a)
Civil Penalties.
(1) As set forth in section 104(c) of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (Pub. L. 111-195) (22 U.S.C. 8501-8551) (“CISADA”) and section 1245(g)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Pub. L. 112-81) (22 U.S.C. 8513a) (“2012 NDAA”), a civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (“IEEPA”) (50 U.S.C. 1705(b)) may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any prohibition contained in § 561.201 or § 561.203 or of any order, regulation, or license set forth in or issued pursuant to this part concerning such prohibitions.
(2) As set forth in section 104(d) of CISADA, a civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206(b) of IEEPA may be imposed on a U.S. financial institution if:
(i) A person owned or controlled by the U.S. financial institution violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of the prohibition in § 561.202 or of any order, regulation, or license set forth in or issued pursuant to this part concerning such prohibition; and
(ii) The U.S. financial institution knew or should have known that the person violated, attempted to violate, conspired to violate, or caused a violation of such prohibition.
(3) Pursuant to section 206 of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1705), which is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury under IEEPA, a civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206(b) of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any prohibition contained in § 561.204 or of any order, regulation, or license set forth in or issued pursuant to this part concerning such prohibition.
(4) The applicable maximum civil penalty per violation of IEEPA is the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(b)
Criminal Penalty.
(1) As set forth in section 104(c) of CISADA and section 1245(g)(2) of the 2012 NDAA, a person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, or willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any prohibition contained in §§ 561.201 or 561.203 shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(2) Pursuant to section 206 of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1705), a person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, or willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any prohibition contained in § 561.204 or of any order, regulation, or license set forth in or issued pursuant to this part concerning such prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(c)
Adjustments to
penalty amounts.
(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(d) Attention is also directed to 18 U.S.C. 1001, which provides that “whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry” shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(e) Violations of this part may also be subject to relevant provisions of other applicable laws.
[77 FR 11726, Feb. 27, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 16410, Mar. 15, 2013; 81 FR 43076, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 10438, Feb. 10, 2017; 83 FR 11879, Mar. 19, 2018; 84 FR 27718, June 14, 2019; 85 FR 19887, Apr. 9, 2020; 86 FR 14538, Mar. 17, 2021; 87 FR 7373, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2233, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2143, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3692, Jan. 15, 2025]
§ 561.702
Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.
(a)
When required.
If the Office of Foreign Assets Control has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA and determines that a civil monetary penalty may be warranted, the Office of Foreign Assets Control may issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b)(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to the Office of Foreign Assets Control. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2)
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days of the date of service of the Pre-Penalty Notice. The failure to submit a response within the applicable time period set forth in this paragraph shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i)
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to the Office of Foreign Assets Control by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii)
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, only upon specific request to the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
(3)
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and must include the Office of Foreign Assets Control identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to the Office of Foreign Assets Control Enforcement Division by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d)
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by the Office of Foreign Assets Control are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e)
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with the Office of Foreign Assets Control prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the
Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
§ 561.703
Penalty imposition.
If, after considering any timely written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, the Office of Foreign Assets Control may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
§ 561.704
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.
In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.

# Subpart H—Procedures
§ 561.801
Procedures.
For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
§ 561.802
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.
Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to subsections 104(c), (d), (h), or (i), or section 104A of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (Pub. L. 111-195) (22 U.S.C. 8501-8551), as amended by the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (Pub. L. 112-158) (22 U.S.C. 8701-8795), pursuant to Executive Order 13553 of September 28, 2010 (75 FR 60567, October 1, 2010), Executive Order 13599 of February 5, 2012 (77 FR 6659, February 8, 2012), Executive Order 13846 of August 6, 2018 (83 FR 38939, August 7, 2018), Executive Order 13871 of May 8, 2019 (84 FR 20761, May 10, 2019), or any further Executive order relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12957 of March 15, 1995, and any action of the Secretary of the Treasury described in this part, may be taken by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.
[84 FR 38548, Aug. 7, 2019]
§ 561.803
Consultations.
In implementing sections 104 and 104A of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (Pub. L. 111-195) (22 U.S.C. 8501-8551), as amended by the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (Pub. L. 112-158) (22 U.S.C. 8701-8795), the Secretary of the Treasury shall consult with the Secretary of State and may, in the sole discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury, consult with such other agencies and departments and such other interested parties as the Secretary considers appropriate.
[78 FR 16410, Mar. 15, 2013]

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
§ 561.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of the information collections relating to the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of § 561.601, licensing procedures (including those pursuant to statements of licensing policy), and other procedures,
see
§ 501.901 of this chapter. The information collection in § 561.504(b) has been approved by OMB and assigned control number 1505-0243. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
Pt. 562

# PART 562—IRANIAN SECTOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
Sec.
562.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
562.201
Prohibited transactions.
562.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
562.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
562.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
562.302
Effective date.
562.303
Entity.
562.304
Interest.
562.305
Licenses; general and specific.
562.306
Person.
562.307
Property; property interest.
562.308
Transfer.
562.309
United States.
562.310
U.S. financial institution.
562.311
United States person; U.S. person.
562.312
Aluminum, aluminum products.
562.313
Aluminum sector of Iran.
562.314
Copper, copper products.
562.315
Copper sector of Iran.
562.316
Iron, iron products, Steel, Steel products.
562.317
Iron sector of Iran.
562.318
Steel sector of Iran.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
562.401
[Reserved]
562.402
Effect of amendment.
562.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
562.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction authorized.
562.405
Setoffs prohibited.
562.406
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.
562.407
Significant transaction or transactions.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
562.501-562.502
[Reserved]
562.503
Exclusion from licenses.
562.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
562.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges authorized.
562.506
Provision of certain legal services authorized.
562.507
Authorization of emergency medical services.
562.508
Official business of the United States Government.
562.509
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
562.510
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
562.511
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.
Subparts F-G [Reserved]

# Subpart H—Procedures
562.801
[Reserved]
562.802
Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
562.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
Appendix A to Part 562—Executive Order 13553 of September 28, 2010
Appendix B to Part 562—Executive Order 13871 of May 8, 2019

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 2332d; 22 U.S.C. 8501-8551; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 12957, 60 FR 14615, 3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 332; E.O. 13553, 75 FR 60567, 3 CFR, 2010 Comp., p. 253; E.O. 13871, 84 FR 20761, 3 CFR, 2019 Comp., p. 308.

# SOURCE:
76 FR 7695, Feb. 11, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
§ 562.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which
apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

# Note to § 562.101:
This part has been published in abbreviated form for the purpose of providing immediate guidance to the public. OFAC intends to supplement this part with a more comprehensive set of regulations, which may include additional interpretive and definitional guidance and additional general licenses and statements of licensing policy.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
§ 562.201
Prohibited transactions.
(a) All transactions prohibited pursuant to Executive Order 13553 are also prohibited pursuant to this part.
(b) All transactions prohibited pursuant to sections 1 and 6 of Executive Order 13871 are also prohibited pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
b

# ):
Section 2 of Executive Order 13871 is implemented in section 561.205 of the Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 561.

# Note 1 to § 562.201:
Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons listed in or designated pursuant to Executive Order 13553, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (“SDN List”) with the identifier “[IRAN-HR].” The names of persons designated pursuant to section 1 of Executive Order 13871, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[IRAN-EO13871].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's website:
http://www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 562.406 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.

# Note 2 to § 562.201:
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. The names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to Executive Order 13553 also are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-IRAN-HR].” The names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to Executive Order 13871 also are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-IRAN-EO13871].”

# Note 3 to § 562.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.

# Note 4 to § 562.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
[84 FR 38549, Aug. 7, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 75962, Sept. 17, 2024]
§ 562.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 562.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or property interests.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 562.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, an appropriate license or other authorization issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of IEEPA, Executive Order 13553, this part, and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of the Office of Foreign Assets Control each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with the Office of Foreign Assets Control a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ) of § 562.202:
The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section have been satisfied.
(e) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property in which, on or since the effective date, there existed an interest of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 562.201.
§ 562.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section, or as otherwise directed by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 562.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a Federally-insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(3) Funds held or placed in a blocked account described in paragraph (b) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days. If interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(c) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 562.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account as described in paragraphs (b) or (d) of this section.
(d) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 562.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(e) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as chattels or real estate, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, the Office of Foreign Assets Control may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(f) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides immediate financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 562.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
§ 562.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
The terms
blocked account
and
blocked property
shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 562.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 562.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to an authorization or license from the Office of Foreign Assets Control expressly authorizing such action.

# Note to 1 § 562.301:
See
§ 562.406 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 562.201.
[76 FR 7695, Feb. 11, 2011, as amended at 87 FR 78477, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 562.302
Effective date.
(a) The term
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(1) With respect to a person listed in the Annex to Executive Order 13553, 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, September 29, 2010;
(2) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to Executive Order 13553, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked; and
(3) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to Executive Order 13871, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section,
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.
[84 FR 38549, Aug. 7, 2019]
§ 562.303
Entity.
The term
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
§ 562.304
Interest.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
§ 562.305
Licenses; general and specific.
(a) Except as otherwise specified, the term
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part.
(c) The term
specific license
means any license or authorization not set forth in subpart E of this part but issued pursuant to this part.

# Note to § 562.305:
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
§ 562.306
Person.
The term
person
means an individual or entity.
§ 562.307
Property; property interest.
The terms
property
and
property interest
include, but are not limited to, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
§ 562.308
Transfer.
The term
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
§ 562.309
United States.
The term
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
§ 562.310
U.S. financial institution.
The term
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes but is not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
§ 562.311
United States person; U.S. person.
The term
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
§ 562.312
Aluminum, aluminum products.
The terms
aluminum
and
aluminum products
mean any raw, semi-fabricated, fabricated, or finished form of aluminum or aluminum alloy of all grades, sizes, and thicknesses, including in the following forms: Ores and concentrates (
e.g.,
bauxite and alumina); unwrought aluminum including ingots, slabs, and billets; powders and flakes; wrought aluminum including bars, rods, profiles, plates, sheets, strip, foil, tubes, and pipes; tube or pipe fittings; reservoirs, tanks, vats, and similar containers; wire, stranded wire, ropes, cables, and plaited band; castings, stampings, and forgings; waste and scrap, including slag, and any aluminum and aluminum products produced from the melting or recycling of aluminum scrap.
[84 FR 38549, Aug. 7, 2019]
§ 562.313
Aluminum sector of Iran.
The term
aluminum sector of Iran
means the mining, refining, processing, or manufacturing of aluminum or aluminum products in Iran.
[84 FR 38549, Aug. 7, 2019]
§ 562.314
Copper, Copper products.
The terms
copper
and
copper products
mean any raw, semi-fabricated, fabricated, or finished form of copper or copper alloy of all grades, sizes, and thicknesses, including in the following forms: Ores and concentrates; copper mattes, cement copper (precipitated copper); refined, unrefined, wrought, or unwrought copper; billets; cathodes; bars, rods, profiles, plates, sheets, strips, foil, tubes, and pipes; tube and pipe fittings; powders and flakes; reservoirs, tanks, vats, and similar containers; wire, stranded wire, ropes, cables, and plaited band; castings, stampings, and forgings; and waste and scrap, including slag.
[84 FR 38549, Aug. 7, 2019]
§ 562.315
Copper sector of Iran.
The term
copper sector of Iran
means the mining, refining, processing, or manufacturing of copper or copper products in Iran.
[84 FR 38549, Aug. 7, 2019]
§ 562.316
Iron, iron products, steel, steel products.
The terms
iron, iron products,
steel,
and
steel products
mean any raw, semi-fabricated, fabricated, or finished form of iron, iron alloy, alloy steel, non-alloy steel, ferroalloys, pig iron, and spiegeleisen of all grades, sizes, and
thicknesses, whether or not clad, plated, or coated, including in the following forms: Iron ores and concentrates, including roasted iron pyrites; pigs and blocks; ferrous products obtained by direct reduction of iron ore and other spongy ferrous products, in lumps or pellets; granules and powders; ingots, blooms billets, slabs, and beam blanks; flat-rolled products (plates, sheets, strips, and foils) either cut-to-length or in coils; bars and rods; structural profiles (beams, channels, angles, and other shapes); sheet piling; railway or tramway track construction materials; tubes, pipes, and hollow profiles; tube or pipe fittings; reservoirs, tanks, vats, and similar containers; wire, stranded wire, ropes, cables, and plaited band; castings, stampings, and forgings; and ferrous waste and scrap, including slag.
[84 FR 38549, Aug. 7, 2019]
§ 562.317
Iron sector of Iran.
The term
iron sector of Iran
means the mining, refining, processing, or manufacturing of iron or iron products in Iran.
[84 FR 38549, Aug. 7, 2019]
§ 562.318
Steel sector of Iran.
The term
steel sector of Iran
means the iron-ore smelting, ferrous-scrap melting, refining, processing, or manufacturing of steel or steel products in Iran.
[84 FR 38549, Aug. 7, 2019]

# Subpart D—Interpretations
§ 562.401
[Reserved]
§ 562.402
Effect of amendment.
Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in this part, any provision in or appendix to this chapter, or any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.
§ 562.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 562.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 562.201 or any other part of this chapter, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 562.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which that person has an interest and therefore blocked.
§ 562.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction authorized.
Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(a) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 562.201; or
(b) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
§ 562.405
Setoffs prohibited.
A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 562.201 if effected after the effective date.
§ 562.406
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.
Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 562.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 562.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).
[87 FR 78477, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 562.407
Significant transaction or transactions.
In determining, for purposes of section 1(a)(ii) and 1(a)(iii) of Executive Order 13871, whether a transaction is significant, the Secretary of the Treasury may consider the totality of the facts and circumstances. As a general matter, the Secretary may consider some or all of the following factors:
(a)
Size, number, and frequency.
The size, number, and frequency of transactions performed, over a period of time, including whether the transactions are increasing or decreasing over time and the rate of increase or decrease.
(b)
Nature.
The nature of the transaction(s), or the goods or services for sale, supply, or transfer, including the type, complexity, and commercial purpose of the transaction(s), or the goods or services for sale, supply, or transfer.
(c)
Level of Awareness; Pattern of Conduct.
(1) Whether the transaction(s) is performed with the involvement or approval of management or only by clerical personnel; and
(2) Whether the transaction(s) is part of a pattern of conduct or the result of a business development strategy.
(d)
Nexus.
The proximity between the person that engaged in the transaction(s) and the activity described in sections 1(a)(ii) and (iii) of Executive Order 13871.
(e)
Impact.
The impact of the transaction(s) on the objectives of Executive Order 13871, including the economic or other benefit conferred or attempted to be conferred on Iran or the iron, steel, aluminum, and copper sectors of Iran.
(f)
Deceptive practices.
Whether the transaction(s) involves an attempt to obscure or conceal the actual parties or true nature of the transaction(s), or to evade sanctions.
(g)
Other relevant factors.
Such other factors that the Secretary deems relevant on a case-by-case basis in determining the significance of a transaction(s) or the sale, supply, or transfer of goods or services.
[84 FR 38550, Aug. 7, 2019]

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
§§ 562.501-562.502
[Reserved]
§ 562.503
Exclusion from licenses.
The Office of Foreign Assets Control reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. The Office of Foreign Assets Control also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.
§ 562.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 562.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another
blocked account held in the same name.

# Note to § 562.504:
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See
also § 562.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
§ 562.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges authorized.
(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, Internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
§ 562.506
Provision of certain legal services authorized.
(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 562.201 is authorized, provided that all receipts of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be specifically licensed:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to domestic U.S. legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings;
(3) Initiation and conduct of domestic U.S. legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings in defense of property interests subject to U.S. jurisdiction;
(4) Representation of persons before any Federal or State agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 562.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 562.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
§ 562.507
Authorization of emergency medical services.
The provision of nonscheduled emergency medical services in the United States to persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 562.201 is authorized, provided that all receipt of payment for such services must be specifically licensed.
§ 562.508
Official business of the United States Government.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[87 FR 78477, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 562.509
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(e) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
[87 FR 78477, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 562.510
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.

# Note 1 to § 562.510.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78495, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 562.511
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.
(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical
devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1)
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2)
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3)
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).

# Note 1 to § 562.511.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78495, Dec. 21, 2022]
Subparts F-G [Reserved]

# Subpart H—Procedures
§ 562.801
[Reserved]
§ 562.802
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.
Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 13553 of September 28, 2010 (75 FR 60567, October 1, 2010), Executive Order 13871 of May 8, 2019 (84 FR 20761, May 10, 2019) and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12957 of March 17, 1995, may be taken by the Director of Office of Foreign Assets Control or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.
[84 FR 38550, Aug. 7, 2019]

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
§ 562.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures (including those pursuant to statements of licensing policy), and other procedures,
see
§ 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
Pt. 562, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 562—Executive Order 13553 of September 28, 2010

# EXECUTIVE ORDER

# BLOCKING PROPERTY OF CERTAIN PERSONS WITH RESPECT TO SERIOUS HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES BY THE GOVERNMENT OF IRAN AND TAKING CERTAIN OTHER ACTIONS
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et
seq.
), the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (Pub. L. 111-195) (CISADA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and in order to take additional steps with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12957 of March 15, 1995,
I, BARACK OBAMA, President of the United States of America, hereby order:
Section 1.
(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person, including any overseas branch, of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(i) the persons listed in the Annex to this order; and
(ii) any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with or at the recommendation of the Secretary of State:
(A) to be an official of the Government of Iran or a person acting on behalf of the Government of Iran (including members of paramilitary organizations) who is responsible for or complicit in, or responsible for ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, the commission of serious human rights abuses against persons in Iran or Iranian citizens or residents, or the family members of the foregoing, on or after June 12, 2009, regardless of whether such abuses occurred in Iran;
(B) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, the activities described in subsection (a)(ii)(A) of this section or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or
(C) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.
(b) I hereby determine that the making of donations of the type of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to subsection (a) of this section would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12957, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by subsection (a) of this section.
(c) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section include but are not limited to:
(i) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and
(ii) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.
(d) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order.
Sec. 2.
(a) Any transaction by a United States person or within the United States that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 3.
For the purposes of this order:
(a) the term “
person
” means an individual or entity;
(b) the term “
entity
” means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;
(c) the term “
United States person
” means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States;
(d) the term “
Government of Iran
” includes the Government of Iran, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, and any person owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of Iran; and
(e) the term “
family member
” means, with respect to an individual, a spouse, child, parent, sibling, grandchild, or grandparent of the individual.
Sec. 4.
For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12957, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1(a) of this order.
Sec. 5.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA and sections 105(a)-(c) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8514(a)-(c)), other than as described in sections 6 and 7 of this order, as may be necessary to carry out the
purposes of this order other than the purposes of sections 6 and 7. The Secretary of the Treasury may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of the United States Government consistent with applicable law. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby further authorized to exercise the functions and waiver authorities conferred upon the President by section 401(b) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8551(b)) with respect to the requirement to impose or maintain sanctions pursuant to IEEPA under section 105(a) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8514(a)) and to redelegate these functions and waiver authorities consistent with applicable law. All agencies of the United States Government are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.
Sec. 6.
The Secretary of State is hereby authorized to exercise the functions and authorities conferred upon the President by section 105(a) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8514(a)) with respect to imposition of the visa sanctions described in section 105(c) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8514(c)) and to redelegate these functions and authorities consistent with applicable law. The Secretary of State is hereby further authorized to exercise the functions and authorities conferred upon the President by section 105(c) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8514(c)) with respect to the promulgation of rules and regulations related to the visa sanctions described therein and to redelegate these functions and authorities consistent with applicable law. The Secretary of State is hereby further authorized to exercise the functions and waiver authorities conferred upon the President by section 401(b) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8551(b)) with respect to the requirement to impose or maintain visa sanctions under section 105(a) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8514(a)) and to redelegate these functions and waiver authorities consistent with applicable law. In exercising the functions and authorities in the previous sentence, the Secretary of State shall consult the Secretary of Homeland Security on matters related to admissibility or inadmissibility within the authority of the Secretary of Homeland Security.
Sec. 7.
The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, is hereby authorized to submit the initial and updated lists of persons who are subject to visa sanctions and whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order to the appropriate congressional committees as required by section 105(b) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8514(b)) and to redelegate these functions consistent with applicable law. The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, is hereby further authorized to exercise the functions and waiver authorities conferred upon the President by section 401(b) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8551(b)) with respect to the requirement to include a person on the list required by section 105(b) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8514(b)) and to redelegate these functions and waiver authorities consistent with applicable law.
Sec. 8.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA, as may be necessary to carry out section 104 of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8513). The Secretary of the Treasury may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of the United States Government consistent with applicable law.
Sec. 9.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to determine that circumstances no longer warrant the blocking of the property and interests in property of a person listed in the Annex to this order, and to take necessary action to give effect to that determination.
Sec. 10.
This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
Sec. 11.
The measures taken pursuant to this order are in response to actions of the Government of Iran occurring after the conclusion of the 1981 Algiers Accords, and are intended solely as response to those later actions.
Sec. 12.
This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on September 29, 2010.

# ANNEX

# Individuals
1. Mohammad Ali JAFARI [Commander of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, born September 1, 1957]
2. Sadeq MAHSOULI [Minister of Welfare and Social Security, former Minister of the Interior and Deputy Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces for Law Enforcement, born 1959]
3. Qolam-Hossein MOHSENI-EJEI [Prosecutor-General of Iran, former Minister of Intelligence, born circa 1956]
4. Saeed MORTAZAVI [Head of Iranian Anti-Smuggling Task Force, former Prosecutor-General of Tehran, born 1967]
5. Heydar MOSLEHI [Minister of Intelligence, born 1956]
6. Mostafa Mohammad NAJJAR [Minister of the Interior and Deputy Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces for Law Enforcement, born 1956]
7. Ahmad-Reza RADAN [Deputy Chief of the National Police, born 1963 or 1964]
8. Hossein TAEB [Deputy Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Commander for Intelligence, former Commander of the Basij Forces, born 1963]
Pt. 562, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 562—Executive Order 13871 of May 8, 2019

# Executive Order 13871 of May 8, 2019

# Imposing Sanctions With Respect to the Iron, Steel, Aluminum, and Copper Sectors of Iran
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, find that: It remains the policy of the United States to deny Iran all paths to both a nuclear weapon and intercontinental ballistic missiles, and to counter the totality of Iran's malign influence in the Middle East. It is also the policy of the United States to deny the Iranian government revenue, including revenue derived from the export of products from Iran's iron, steel, aluminum, and copper sectors, that may be used to provide funding and support for the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, terrorist groups and networks, campaigns of regional aggression, and military expansion.
In light of these findings and in order to take further steps with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12957 of March 15, 1995, and to supplement the authorities provided in the Iran Freedom and Counter-Proliferation Act of 2012 (subtitle D of title XII of Public Law 112-239), I hereby order:
Section 1.
(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in: any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To be operating in the iron, steel, aluminum, or copper sector of Iran, or to be a person that owns, controls, or operates an entity that is part of the iron, steel, aluminum, or copper sector of Iran;
(ii) to have knowingly engaged, on or after the date of this order, in a significant transaction for the sale, supply, or transfer to Iran of significant goods or services used in connection with the iron, steel, aluminum, or copper sectors of Iran;
(iii) to have knowingly engaged, on or after the date of this order, in a significant transaction for the purchase, acquisition, sale, transport, or marketing of iron, iron products, aluminum, aluminum products, steel, steel products, copper, or copper products from Iran;
(iv) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section; or
(v) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section.
(b) The prohibitions in this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.
Sec. 2.
(a) The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to impose on a foreign financial institution the sanctions described in subsection (b) of this section upon determining that the foreign financial institution has, on or after the date of this order, knowingly conducted or facilitated any significant financial transaction:
(i) For the sale, supply, or transfer to Iran of significant goods or services used in connection with the iron, steel, aluminum, or copper sectors of Iran;
(ii) for the purchase, acquisition, sale, transport, or marketing of iron, iron products, aluminum, aluminum products, steel, steel products, copper, or copper products from Iran; or
(iii) for or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.
(b) With respect to any foreign financial institution determined by the Secretary of the Treasury in accordance with this section to meet any of the criteria set forth in subsection (a)(i) through (a)(iii) of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury may prohibit the opening, and prohibit or impose strict conditions on maintaining, in the United States of a correspondent account or payable-through account by such foreign financial institution.
(c) The prohibitions in subsection (b) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.
Sec. 3.
I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C.
1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12957, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by this section.
Sec. 4.
The prohibitions in section 1 of this order include:
(a) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to subsection (a) of that section; and
(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.
Sec. 5.
The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in subsection 1(a) of this order would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and the entry of such persons into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is therefore hereby suspended. Such persons shall be treated as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions).
Sec. 6.
(a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 7.
Nothing in this order shall apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the Federal Government or the United Nations (including its specialized agencies, programmes, funds, and related organizations) by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Sec. 8.
For the purposes of this order:
(a) The term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;
(b) the term “foreign financial institution” means any foreign entity that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes, but is not limited to, depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money service businesses, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and holding companies, affiliates, or subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. The term does not include the international financial institutions identified in 22 U.S.C. 262r(c)(2), the International Fund for Agricultural Development, the North American Development Bank, or any other international financial institution so notified by the Secretary of the Treasury;
(c) the term “Government of Iran” includes the Government of Iran, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the Central Bank of Iran, and any person owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of Iran;
(d) the term “Iran” means the Government of Iran and the territory of Iran and any other territory or marine area, including the exclusive economic zone and continental shelf, over which the Government of Iran claims sovereignty, sovereign rights, or jurisdiction, provided that the Government of Iran exercises partial or total de facto control over the area or derives a benefit from economic activity in the area pursuant to international arrangements;
(e) the term “knowingly,” with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result;
(f) the term “person” means an individual or entity; and
(g) the term “United States person” means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
Sec. 9.
For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12957, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.
Sec. 10.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including adopting rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to implement this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All agencies shall take all appropriate measures
within their authority to implement this order.
Sec. 11
. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) The authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
Sec. 12.
The measures taken pursuant to this order are in response to actions of the Government of Iran occurring after the conclusion of the 1981 Algiers Accords, and are intended solely as a response to those later actions.
Donald J. Trump
THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 8, 2019.
[84 FR 38550, Aug. 7, 2019]
Pt. 566

# PART 566—HIZBALLAH FINANCIAL SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
Sec.
566.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
566.201
Prohibitions or strict conditions with respect to correspondent or payable-through accounts of certain foreign financial institutions identified by the Secretary of the Treasury.
566.202
Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.
566.203
Exempt transactions.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
566.300
Applicability of definitions.
566.301
Agent.
566.302
Correspondent account.
566.303
Covered financial institution.
566.304
Effective date.
566.305
Entity.
566.306
Financial institution.
566.307
Financial services.
566.308
Financial transaction.
566.309
Foreign financial institution.
566.310
HIFPA.
566.311
Hizballah.
566.312
Knowingly.
566.313
Licenses; general and specific.
566.314
Money laundering.
566.315
OFAC.
566.316
Payable-through account.
566.317
Person.
566.318
Transaction account.
566.319
United States.
566.320
U.S. financial institution.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
566.401
Reference to amended sections.
566.402
Effect of amendment.
566.403
Facilitation of certain efforts, activities, or transactions by foreign financial institutions.
566.404
Significant transaction or transactions; significant financial services.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
566.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
566.502
Effect of license or authorization.
566.503
Exclusion from licenses.
566.504
Transactions related to closing a correspondent or payable-through account.

# Subpart F—Reports
566.601
Records and reports.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Finding of Violation
566.701
Penalties.
566.702
Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.
566.703
Penalty imposition.
566.704
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.
566.705
Finding of violation.

# Subpart H—Procedures
566.801
Procedures.
566.802
Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
566.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 114-102, 129 Stat. 2205 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); Pub. L. 115-272, 132 Stat. 4144 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note).

# Source:
81 FR 22186, Apr. 15, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
§ 566.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
§ 566.201
Prohibitions or strict conditions with respect to correspondent or payable-through accounts of certain foreign financial institutions identified by the Secretary of the Treasury.
Upon a determination by the Secretary of the Treasury that a foreign financial institution knowingly engages in one or more of the activities described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury may, as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, impose one or more strict conditions on the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for that foreign financial institution, or, as set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, prohibit a U.S. financial institution from opening or maintaining a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for that foreign financial institution.
(a) A foreign financial institution engages in an activity described in this paragraph if, in any location or currency, the foreign financial institution, on or after December 18, 2015, knowingly:
(1) Facilitates a significant transaction or transactions for Hizballah;
(2) Facilitates a significant transaction or transactions of a person identified on OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List), the property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) (IEEPA) for acting on behalf of or at the direction of, or being owned or controlled by, Hizballah;

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(2):
The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's Web site:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to IEEPA for acting on behalf of or at the direction of or being owned or controlled by Hizballah are identified by a special reference to Hizballah at the end of their entries on the SDN List, in addition to the reference to the regulatory part of this chapter pursuant to which their property and interests in property are blocked. For example, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the Global Terrorism Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 594, and identified on the SDN List, will have the program tag “[SDGT]” and descriptive text [“Subject to secondary sanctions pursuant to the Hizballah Financial Sanctions Regulations”].
(3) Engages in money laundering to carry out an activity described in paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section; or
(4) Facilitates a significant transaction or transactions or provides significant financial services to carry out an activity described in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section.
(b) The Secretary of the Treasury may impose one or more strict conditions on the opening or maintaining by a U.S. financial institution of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution that the Secretary finds engages in one or more of the activities described in
paragraph (a) of this section. Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, a U.S. financial institution shall not open or maintain a correspondent account or payable-through account in the United States in a manner that is inconsistent with any strict condition imposed and in effect pursuant to this paragraph. Such conditions may include the following:
(1) Prohibiting or restricting any provision of trade finance through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution;
(2) Restricting the transactions that may be processed through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution to certain types of transactions, such as personal remittances;
(3) Placing monetary limits on, or limiting the volume of, the transactions that may be processed through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution;
(4) Requiring pre-approval from the U.S. financial institution for all transactions processed through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution; or
(5) Prohibiting or restricting the processing of foreign exchange transactions through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# ):
The name of the foreign financial institution, together with the actual strict condition(s) to be imposed, will be added to the List of Foreign Financial Institutions Subject to Correspondent Account or Payable-Through Account Sanctions (CAPTA List) on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site (
www.treasury.gov/ofac
), and published in the
Federal Register
.
(c) If the Secretary of the Treasury does not impose one or more strict conditions, pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, on the opening or maintaining by a U.S. financial institution of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution that the Secretary determines engages in one or more of the activities described in paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary may prohibit the opening or maintaining by a U.S. financial institution of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for that foreign financial institution. Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, a U.S. financial institution shall not open or maintain a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution for which the opening or maintaining of such an account is prohibited pursuant to this paragraph.

# Note to paragraph (
c

# ):
The names of foreign financial institutions for which the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States is prohibited will be listed on the CAPTA List on OFAC's Web site (
www.treasury.gov/ofac
), and published in the
Federal Register
.
[81 FR 22186, Apr. 15, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 9457, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 566.202
Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.
(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
§ 566.203
Exempt transactions.
Sanctions will not be imposed under § 566.201 with respect to:
(a) Any authorized intelligence, law enforcement, or national security activities of the United States.
(b) Any transaction necessary to comply with United States obligations under the Agreement between the United Nations and the United States of America regarding the Headquarters of the United States, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into force November 21, 1947, or the Convention on Consular Relations, done at Vienna April 24, 1963, and entered into force March 19, 1967, or any other United States international agreement.
[84 FR 35310, July 23, 2019]

# Subpart C—General Definitions
§ 566.300
Applicability of definitions.
The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.
§ 566.301
Agent.
The term
agent
includes an entity established by a person for purposes of conducting transactions on behalf of the person in order to conceal the identity of the person.
§ 566.302
Correspondent account.
The term
correspondent account
means an account established to receive deposits from, make payments on behalf of, or handle other financial transactions related to a foreign financial institution.
§ 566.303
Covered financial institution.
The term
covered financial institution
means a broker or dealer in securities registered, or required to be registered, with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), except persons who register pursuant to section 15(b)(11) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; a futures commission merchant or an introducing broker registered, or required to be registered, with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), except persons who register pursuant to section 4(f)(a)(2) of the Commodity Exchange Act; or a mutual fund.
§ 566.304
Effective date.
The
effective date
refers to the effective date of a prohibition or strict condition imposed pursuant to § 566.201 on the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States by a U.S. financial institution for a particular foreign financial institution and is the earlier of the date the U.S. financial institution receives actual or constructive notice of such prohibition or condition.
§ 566.305
Entity.
The term
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
§ 566.306
Financial institution.
The term
financial institution
means:
(a) An insured bank (as defined in section 3(h) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(h));
(b) A commercial bank or trust company;
(c) A private banker;
(d) An agency or branch of a foreign bank in the United States;
(e) Any credit union;
(f) A thrift institution;
(g) A broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
);
(h) A broker or dealer in securities or commodities;
(i) An investment banker or investment company;
(j) A currency exchange;
(k) An issuer, redeemer, or cashier of travelers' checks, checks, money orders, or similar instruments;
(l) An insurance company;
(m) A dealer in precious metals, stones, or jewels;
(n) A loan or finance company;
(o) A licensed sender of money or any other person who engages as a business in the transmission of funds including any person who engages as a business in an informal money transfer system or any network of people who engage as a business in facilitating the transfer of money domestically or internationally outside of the conventional financial institutions system;
(p) A business engaged in vehicle sales, including automobile, airplane, and boat sales;
(q) Any business or agency which engages in any activity which the Secretary of the Treasury determines, by regulation, to be an activity which is similar to, related to, or a substitute for any activity in which any business described in this paragraph is authorized to engage; or
(r) Any other business designated by the Secretary whose cash transactions have a high degree of usefulness in criminal, tax, or regulatory matters.
§ 566.307
Financial services.
The term
financial services
includes loans, transfers, accounts, insurance, investments, securities, guarantees, foreign exchange, letters of credit, and commodity futures or options.
§ 566.308
Financial transaction.
The term
financial transaction
means any transfer of value involving a financial institution.
§ 566.309
Foreign financial institution.
(a) The term
foreign financial institution
means:
(1) A foreign bank;
(2) Any branch or office located outside the United States of a covered financial institution, as defined in § 566.303;
(3) Any other person organized under foreign law (other than a branch or office of such person in the United States) that, if it were located in the United States, would be a covered financial institution, as defined in § 566.303; and
(4) Any person organized under foreign law (other than a branch or office of such person in the United States) that is engaged in the business of, and is readily identifiable as, a dealer in foreign exchange or a money transmitter.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a)(4) of this section, a person is not “engaged in the business” of a dealer in foreign exchange or a money transmitter if such transactions are merely incidental to the person's business.
[81 FR 22186, Apr. 15, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 35310, July 23, 2019]
§ 566.310
HIFPA.
The term
HIFPA
means the Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015, Public Law 114-102.
§ 566.311
Hizballah.
The term
Hizballah
means:
(a) The entity known as Hizballah and designated by the Secretary of State as a foreign terrorist organization pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189); or
(b) Any person:
(1) The property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
); and
(2) Who is identified on the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) maintained by OFAC as an agent, instrumentality, or affiliate of Hizballah.

# Note to § 566.311:
The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's Web site:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. Persons on the SDN List that fall within the definition of Hizballah set forth in this section are identified by a special reference to Hizballah at the end of their entries on the SDN List, in addition to the reference to the regulatory part of this chapter pursuant to which their property and interests in property are blocked. For example, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the Global Terrorism Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 594, and identified on the SDN List will have the program tag “[SDGT]” and descriptive text [“Subject to secondary sanctions pursuant to the Hizballah Financial Sanctions Regulations”].
§ 566.312
Knowingly.
The term
knowingly,
with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result.
§ 566.313
Licenses; general and specific.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's Web site:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
(c) The term
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's Web site:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.

# Note to § 566.313:
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
§ 566.314
Money laundering.
The term
money laundering
includes the movement of illicit cash or cash equivalent proceeds into, out of, or through a country, or into, out of, or through a financial institution.
§ 566.315
OFAC.
The term
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
§ 566.316
Payable-through account.
The term
payable-through account
means an account, including a transaction account as defined in § 566.317, opened at a depository institution by a foreign financial institution by means of which the foreign financial institution permits its customers to engage, either directly or through a subaccount, in banking activities usual in connection with the business of banking in the United States.
§ 566.317
Person.
The term
person
means an individual or entity.
§ 566.318
Transaction account.
The term
transaction account
means a deposit or account on which the depositor or account holder is permitted to make withdrawals by negotiable or transferable instrument, payment orders of withdrawal, telephone transfers, or other similar items for the purpose of making payments or transfers to third persons or others. Such term includes demand deposits, negotiable order of withdrawal accounts, savings deposits subject to automatic transfers, and share draft accounts.
§ 566.319
United States.
The term
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
§ 566.320
U.S. financial institution.
The term
U.S. financial institution
means a financial institution located in or organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
§ 566.401
Reference to amended sections.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, reference to any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or to any regulation, ruling, order, instruction, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part refers to the same as currently amended.
§ 566.402
Effect of amendment.
Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any regulations, ruling, order, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such regulation, ruling, order, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.
§ 566.403
Facilitation of certain efforts, activities, or transactions by foreign financial institutions.
For purposes of § 566.201, the term
facilitate
used with respect to certain efforts, activities, or transactions refers to the provision of assistance by a foreign financial institution for those efforts, activities, or transactions, including the provision of currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; purchasing; selling; transporting; swapping; brokering; financing; approving; guaranteeing; the provision of other services of any kind; the provision of personnel; or the provision of software, technology, or goods of any kind.
§ 566.404
Significant transactions; significant financial services.
In determining, for purposes of paragraph (a) of § 566.201, whether a transaction(s) or financial service(s) is significant, the Secretary of the Treasury may consider the totality of the facts and circumstances. As a general matter, the Secretary may consider some or all of the following factors:
(a)
Size, number, and frequency.
The size, number, and frequency of transaction(s) or financial service(s) performed over a period of time, including whether the transaction(s) or financial service(s) is increasing or decreasing over time and the rate of increase or decrease.
(b)
Nature.
The nature of the transaction(s) or financial service(s), including the type, complexity, and commercial purpose of the transaction(s) or financial service(s).
(c)
Level of awareness; pattern of conduct.
(1) Whether the transaction(s) or financial service(s) is performed with the involvement or approval of management or only by clerical personnel; and
(2) Whether the transaction(s) or financial service(s) is part of a pattern of conduct or the result of a business development strategy.
(d)
Nexus.
The proximity between the foreign financial institution engaging in the transaction(s) or providing the financial service(s) and Hizballah or a blocked person described in paragraph (a)(2) of § 566.201. For example, a transaction or financial service in which a foreign financial institution provides brokerage or clearing services to, or maintains an account or makes payments for, Hizballah or such a blocked person generally would be of greater significance than a transaction or financial service a foreign financial institution conducts for or provides to Hizballah or such a blocked person indirectly or in a tertiary relationship.
(e)
Impact.
The impact of the transaction(s) or financial service(s) on the objectives of the Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015, including:
(1) The economic or other benefit conferred or attempted to be conferred on Hizballah or a blocked person described in paragraph (a)(2) of § 566.201; and
(2) Whether and how the transaction(s) or financial service(s) contributes to support for international terrorism.
(f)
Deceptive practices.
Whether the transaction(s) or financial service(s) involves an attempt to obscure or conceal the actual parties or true nature of the transaction(s) or financial service(s) to evade sanctions.
(g)
Other relevant factors.
Such other factors that the Secretary deems relevant on a case-by-case basis in determining the significance of a transaction(s) or financial service(s).

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
§ 566.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Counter Terrorism Sanctions page on OFAC's Web site:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
§ 566.502
Effect of license or other authorization.
(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction or financial service effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction or financial service prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction or financial services prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction or financial service otherwise prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the
regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. Government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency.
§ 566.503
Exclusion from licenses.
OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.
§ 566.504
Transactions related to closing a correspondent or payable-through account.
(a) During the 10-day period beginning on the effective date of the prohibition in§ 566.201(c) on the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a foreign financial institution listed on the List of Foreign Financial Institutions Subject to Correspondent Account or Payable-Through Account Sanctions (CAPTA List), U.S. financial institutions that maintain correspondent accounts or payable-through accounts for the foreign financial institution are authorized to:
(1) Process only those transactions through the account, or permit the foreign financial institution to execute only those transactions through the account, that are for the purpose of, and necessary for, closing the account; and
(2) Transfer the funds remaining in the correspondent account or the payable-through account to an account of the foreign financial institution located outside of the United States and close the correspondent account or the payable-through account.
(b) A report must be filed with OFAC within 30 days of the closure of an account, providing full details on the closing of each correspondent account or payable-through account maintained by a U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution whose name is added to the CAPTA List, maintained on OFAC's Web site (
www.treasury.gov/ofac
). Such report must include complete information on the closing of the account and on all transactions processed or executed through the account pursuant to this section, including the account outside of the United States to which funds remaining in the account were transferred. Reports should be addressed to the attention of the Compliance Division, Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Freedman's Bank Building, Washington, DC 20220.
(c) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize transactions outside the scope or time period authorized in paragraph (a) by a U.S. financial institution with respect to a correspondent account or a payable-through account maintained by the U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution whose name is added to the CAPTA List. License applications should be filed in conformance with § 501.801 of the Reporting, Procedures and Penalties Regulations, 31 CFR part 501.
(d) Nothing in this section authorizes the opening of a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a foreign financial institution whose name appears on the CAPTA List.

# Note to § 566.504:
This section does not authorize a U.S. financial institution to unblock property or interests in property, or to engage in any transaction or dealing in property or interests in property, blocked pursuant to any other part of this chapter, in the process of closing a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a foreign financial institution whose name has been added to the CAPTA List, maintained
on OFAC's Web site (
www.treasury.gov/ofac
).
See
§ 566.101.
[81 FR 22186, Apr. 15, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 9457, Mar. 15, 2019; 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]

# Subpart F—Reports
§ 566.601
Records and reports.
For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Finding of Violation
§ 566.701
Penalties.
(a)
Civil penalties.
As set forth in section 102(a)(3) of the Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015 (Pub. L. 114-102, 129 Stat. 2205 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note)), a civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA) (50 U.S.C. 1705(b)) may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition set forth in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The applicable maximum civil penalty per violation of IEEPA is the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(c)
Criminal penalties.
As set forth in section 102(a)(3) of HIFPA, a person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, or willfully conspires to commit a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition set forth in or issued pursuant to this part shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(d)
Adjustments to penalty amounts.
(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(e) Attention is also directed to 18 U.S.C. 1001, which provides that “whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry” shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(f) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[81 FR 22186, Apr. 15, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 43076, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 10438, Feb. 10, 2017; 83 FR 11880, Mar. 19, 2018; 84 FR 27718, June 14, 2019; 85 FR 19888, Apr. 9, 2020; 86 FR 14538, Mar. 17, 2021; 87 FR 7373, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2233, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2143, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3692, Jan. 15, 2025]
§ 566.702
Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.
(a)
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b)(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-
Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2)
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth below. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i)
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii)
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3)
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and must include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Settlement.
Settlement discussions may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d)
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e)
Representation.
A representative may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the PrePenalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[81 FR 22186, Apr. 15, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 35310, July 23, 2019]
§ 566.703
Penalty imposition.
If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
[84 FR 35310, July 23, 2019]
§ 566.704
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.
In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.
§ 566.705
Finding of violation.
(a)
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation,
order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706);
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and,
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b)
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2)
Deadline for response; Default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(i)
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii)
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3)
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4)
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that the alleged violation did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c)
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
(2)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# )(2):
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d)
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[84 FR 35310, July 23, 2019]

# Subpart H—Procedures
§ 566.801
Procedures.
For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
§ 566.802
Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.
Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to the Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015 (Pub. L. 114-102, 129 Stat. 2205 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note)) may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority to so act.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
§ 566.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. The information collection in § 566.504(b) has been approved by OMB and assigned control number 1505-0255. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
[84 FR 35311, July 23, 2019]
Pt. 569

# PART 569—SYRIA-RELATED SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
Sec.
569.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
569.201
Prohibited transactions.
569.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
569.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
569.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.
569.205
Exempt transactions.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
569.300
Applicability of definitions.
569.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
569.302
Effective date.
569.303
Entity.
569.304
Financial, material, or technological support.
569.305
Information or informational materials.
569.306
Interest.
569.307
Licenses; general and specific.
569.308
OFAC.
569.309
Person.
569.310
Property; property interest.
569.311
Transfer.
569.312
United States.
569.313
United States person; U.S. person.
569.314
U.S. financial institution.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
569.401
[Reserved]
569.402
Effect of amendment.
569.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
569.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
569.405
Setoffs prohibited.
569.406
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
569.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
569.502
[Reserved]
569.503
Exclusion from licenses.
569.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
569.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.
569.506
Provision of certain legal services.
569.507
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
569.508
Emergency medical services.
569.509
Official business of the United States Government.
569.510
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
569.511
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
569.512
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

# Subpart F—Reports
569.601
Records and reports.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation
569.701
Penalties and Findings of Violation.

# Subpart H—Procedures
569.801
Procedures.
569.802
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
569.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
Appendix A to Part 569—Executive Order 13894

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13894, 84 FR 55851, 3 CFR, 2019 Comp., p. 382.

# Source:
85 FR 34510, June 5, 2020, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
§ 569.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

# Note 1 to § 569.101:
This part has been published in abbreviated form for the purpose of providing immediate guidance to the public. OFAC intends to supplement this part with a more comprehensive set of regulations, which may include additional interpretive and definitional guidance, general licenses, and statements of licensing policy.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
§ 569.201
Prohibited transactions.
All transactions prohibited pursuant to Executive Order 13894 of October 14, 2019 (E.O. 13894), or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13894, are prohibited pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 569.201:
The names of persons designated pursuant to E.O. 13894, or listed in or designated or identified pursuant to any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13984, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the identifier formulation “[SYRIA-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this
chapter.
See
§ 569.406 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.

# Note 2 to § 569.201:
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the identifier formulation “[BPI-SYRIA-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”

# Note 3 to § 569.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.

# Note 4 to § 569.201:
The names of persons determined by the Secretary of State to meet the criteria for the imposition of sanctions pursuant to section 2 of E.O. 13894 will be incorporated into a data file containing OFAC's Consolidated Non-SDN data and will also be provided in a human readable format on the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/cons.
These listings will include specific information on the sanctions imposed on such persons pursuant to section 2 of E.O. 13894. However, for any persons determined to meet the criteria for the imposition of sanctions pursuant to section 2 of E.O. 13894, where the Secretary of State chooses to impose the sanctions described in section 2(c)(iv) of E.O. 13894, such persons' names will instead be incorporated into OFAC's SDN List using the identifier “[SYRIA-EO13894].” The names of persons determined to meet the criteria for the imposition of sanctions pursuant to section 2 of E.O. 13894 will be published in the
Federal Register
along with the applicable sanctions that have been imposed on such persons under that section.

# Note 5 to § 569.201:
The names of foreign financial institutions for which the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States is prohibited or for which the maintenance of a correspondent account or payable-through account is subject to one or more strict conditions pursuant to section 3 of E.O. 13894, or pursuant to any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13984, will be added to the List of Foreign Financial Institutions Subject to Correspondent Account or Payable-Through Account Sanctions (CAPTA List) on OFAC's website (
www.treasury.gov/ofac
), and published in the
Federal Register
along with the applicable prohibition or strict condition(s) that have been imposed on such foreign financial institutions under that section.

# Note 6 to § 569.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section.
[85 FR 34510, June 5, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 75963, Sept. 17, 2024]
§ 569.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 569.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 569.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by
OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 569.201.
§ 569.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 569.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 569.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings,
or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 569.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.
§ 569.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.
(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 569.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 569.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.
§ 569.205
Exempt transactions.
(a)
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
(b)
Information or informational materials.
(1) The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to the importation from any country and the exportation to any country of any information or informational materials, as defined in § 569.305, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission.
(2) This section does not exempt from regulation transactions related to information or informational materials not fully created and in existence at the date of the transactions, or to the substantive or artistic alteration or enhancement of information or informational materials, or to the provision of marketing and business consulting services. Such prohibited transactions include payment of advances for information or informational materials not yet created and completed (with the exception of prepaid subscriptions for widely circulated magazines and other periodical publications); provision of services to market, produce or co-produce, create, or assist in the creation of information or informational materials; and payment of royalties with respect to income received for enhancements or alterations made by U.S. persons to such information or informational materials.
(3) This section does not exempt transactions incident to the exportation of software subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774, or to the exportation of goods (including software) or technology for use in the transmission of any data, or to the provision, sale, or leasing of capacity on telecommunications transmission facilities (such as satellite or terrestrial network connectivity) for use in the transmission of any data. The exportation of such items or services and the provision, sale, or leasing of such capacity or facilities to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201 are prohibited.
(c)
Travel.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to transactions ordinarily incident to travel to
or from any country, including importation or exportation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
§ 569.300
Applicability of definitions.
The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.
§ 569.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
The terms
blocked account
and
blocked property
shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 569.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.

# Note 1 to § 569.301:
See
§ 569.406 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201.
§ 569.302
Effective date.
(a) The term
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and, with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section,
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.
§ 569.303
Entity.
The term
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
§ 569.304
Financial, material, or technological support.
The term
financial, material, or technological support
means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
§ 569.305
Information or informational materials.
(a)(1) The term
information or informational materials
includes publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.
(2) To be considered information or informational materials, artworks must be classified under heading 9701, 9702, or 9703 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
(b) The term
information or informational materials,
with respect to exports, does not include items:
(1) That were, as of April 30, 1994, or that thereafter become, controlled for export pursuant to section 5 of the Export Administration Act of 1979, 50 U.S.C. App. 2401-2420 (1979) (EAA), or section 6 of the EAA to the extent that such controls promote the nonproliferation or antiterrorism policies of the United States; or
(2) With respect to which acts are prohibited by 18 U.S.C. chapter 37.
§ 569.306
Interest.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
§ 569.307
Licenses; general and specific.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
(c) The term
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.

# Note 1 to § 569.307:
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
§ 569.308
OFAC.
The term
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
§ 569.309
Person.
The term
person
means an individual or entity.
§ 569.310
Property; property interest.
The terms
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
§ 569.311
Transfer.
The term
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
§ 569.312
United States.
The term
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
§ 569.313
United States person; U.S. person.
The term
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
§ 569.314
U.S. financial institution.
The term
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or other extensions of credit, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
§ 569.401
[Reserved]
§ 569.402
Effect of amendment.
Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.
§ 569.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 569.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 569.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.
§ 569.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(a) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201; or
(b) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
§ 569.405
Setoffs prohibited.
A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 569.201 if effected after the effective date.
§ 569.406
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.
Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
§ 569.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Syria-related sanctions page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
§ 569.502
[Reserved]
§ 569.503
Exclusion from licenses.
OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.
§ 569.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.

# Note 1 to § 569.504:
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 569.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
§ 569.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.
(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
§ 569.506
Provision of certain legal services.
(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 569.507, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States;
via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services.
See
§ 569.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 569.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 569.506:
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.
§ 569.507
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
(a)
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 569.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 569.506(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b)
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[85 FR 34510, June 5, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 103645, Dec. 19, 2024]
§ 569.508
Emergency medical services.
The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are otherwise prohibited by this part are authorized.
§ 569.509
Official business of the United States Government.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[87 FR 78478, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 569.510
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(1) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(2) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(3) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(4) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies;
(5) The Arab Monetary Fund and the Islamic Development Bank; and
(6) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
(b) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
[87 FR 78478, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 569.511
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.

# Note 1 to § 569.511.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78495, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 569.512
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.
(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1)
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2)
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3)
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).

# Note 1 to § 569.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78496, Dec. 21, 2022]

# Subpart F—Reports
§ 569.601
Records and reports.
For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to
the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation
§ 569.701
Penalties and Findings of Violation.
(a) The penalties available under section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) (IEEPA), as adjusted annually pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note) or, in the case of criminal violations, as adjusted pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571, are applicable to violations of the provisions of this part.
(b) OFAC has the authority, pursuant to IEEPA, to issue Pre-Penalty Notices, Penalty Notices, and Findings of Violation; impose monetary penalties; engage in settlement discussions and enter into settlements; refer matters to the United States Department of Justice for administrative collection; and, in appropriate circumstances, refer matters to appropriate law enforcement agencies for criminal investigation and/or prosecution. For more information, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, which provides a general framework for the enforcement of all economic sanctions programs administered by OFAC, including enforcement-related definitions, types of responses to apparent violations, general factors affecting administrative actions, civil penalties for failure to comply with a requirement to furnish information or keep records, and other general civil penalties information.

# Subpart H—Procedures
§ 569.801
Procedures.
For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
§ 569.802
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.
Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 13894 of October 14, 2019 (E.O. 13894), and any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13894, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
§ 569.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
Pt. 569, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 569—Executive Order 13894

# Executive Order 13894 of October 14, 2019

# Blocking Property and Suspending Entry of Certain Persons Contributing to the Situation in Syria
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) (NEA), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, find that the situation in and in relation to Syria, and in particular the recent actions by the Government of Turkey to conduct a military offensive into northeast Syria, undermines the campaign to defeat the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, or ISIS, endangers civilians, and further threatens to undermine the peace, security, and stability in the region, and thereby constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. I hereby
declare a national emergency to deal with that threat. I hereby determine and order:
Section 1.
(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(i) any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(A) to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged in, or attempted to engage in, any of the following in or in relation to Syria:
(1) actions or policies that further threaten the peace, security, stability, or territorial integrity of Syria; or
(2) the commission of serious human rights abuse;
(B) to be a current or former official of the Government of Turkey;
(C) to be any subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of the Government of Turkey;
(D) to operate in such sectors of the Turkish economy as may be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State;
(E) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or
(F) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.
(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.
Sec. 2.
(a) The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and other officials of the U.S. Government as appropriate, is hereby authorized to impose on a foreign person any of the sanctions described in subsections (b) and (c) of this section, upon determining that the person, on or after the date of this order:
(i) is responsible for or complicit in, has directly or indirectly engaged in, or attempted to engage in, or financed, any of the following:
(A) the obstruction, disruption, or prevention of a ceasefire in northern Syria;
(B) the intimidation or prevention of displaced persons from voluntarily returning to their places of residence in Syria;
(C) the forcible repatriation of persons or refugees to Syria; or
(D) the obstruction, disruption, or prevention of efforts to promote a political solution to the conflict in Syria, including:
(1) the convening and conduct of a credible and inclusive Syrian-led constitutional process under the auspices of the United Nations (UN);
(2) the preparation for and conduct of UN-supervised elections, pursuant to the new constitution, that are free and fair and to the highest international standards of transparency and accountability; or
(3) the development of a new Syrian government that is representative and reflects the will of the Syrian people;
(ii) is an adult family member of a person designated under subsection (a)(i) of this section; or
(iii) is responsible for or complicit in, or has directly or indirectly engaged in, or attempted to engage in, the expropriation of property, including real property, for personal gain or political purposes in Syria.
(b) When the Secretary of State, in accordance with the terms of subsection (a) of this section, has determined that a person meets any of the criteria described in that subsection and has selected one or more of the sanctions set forth below to impose on that person, the heads of relevant departments and agencies, in consultation with the Secretary of State, as appropriate, shall ensure that the following actions are taken where necessary to implement the sanctions selected by the Secretary of State:
(i) agencies shall not procure, or enter into a contract for the procurement of, any goods or services from the sanctioned person; or
(ii) the Secretary of State shall direct the denial of a visa to, and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall exclude from the United States, any alien that the Secretary of State determines is a corporate officer or principal of, or a shareholder with a controlling interest in, a sanctioned person.
(c) When the Secretary of State, in accordance with the terms of subsection (a) of this section, has determined that a person meets any of the criteria described in that subsection and has selected one or more of the sanctions set forth below to impose on that person, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall take the following actions where necessary to implement the sanctions selected by the Secretary of State:
(i) prohibit any United States financial institution that is a U.S. person from making loans or providing credits to the sanctioned person totaling more than $10,000,000 in any 12-month period, unless such person is engaged in activities to relieve human suffering and the loans or credits are provided for such activities;
(ii) prohibit any transactions in foreign exchange that are subject to the jurisdiction of
the United States and in which the sanctioned person has any interest;
(iii) prohibit any transfers of credit or payments between banking institutions or by, through, or to any banking institution, to the extent that such transfers or payments are subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and involve any interest of the sanctioned person;
(iv) block all property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person of the sanctioned person, and provide that such property and interests in property may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in;
(v) prohibit any United States person from investing in or purchasing significant amounts of equity or debt instruments of the sanctioned person;
(vi) restrict or prohibit imports of goods, technology, or services, directly or indirectly, into the United States from the sanctioned person; or
(vii) impose on the principal executive officer or officers, or persons performing similar functions and with similar authorities, of the sanctioned person the sanctions described in subsections (c)(i)-(c)(vi) of this section, as selected by the Secretary of State.
(d) The prohibitions in subsections (b) and (c) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.
Sec. 3.
(a) The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to impose on a foreign financial institution the sanctions described in subsection (b) of this section upon determining that the foreign financial institution knowingly conducted or facilitated any significant financial transaction for or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order.
(b) With respect to any foreign financial institution determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in accordance with this section, to meet the criteria set forth in subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury may prohibit the opening, and prohibit or impose strict conditions on the maintaining, in the United States of a correspondent account or a payable-through account by such foreign financial institution.
(c) The prohibitions in subsection (b) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.
Sec. 4.
The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in subsection 1(a) or 2(a) of this order, or aliens for which the sanctions under subsection 2(b)(ii) have been selected, would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and the entry of such persons into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended, except where the Secretary of State determines that the entry of the person into the United States would not be contrary to the interests of the United States, including when the Secretary so determines, based on a recommendation of the Attorney General, that the person's entry would further important United States law enforcement objectives. In exercising this responsibility, the Secretary of State shall consult the Secretary of Homeland Security on matters related to admissibility or inadmissibility within the authority of the Secretary of Homeland Security. Such persons shall be treated in the same manner as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions). The Secretary of State shall have the responsibility for implementing this section pursuant to such conditions and procedures as the Secretary has established or may establish pursuant to Proclamation 8693.
Sec. 5.
I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order.
Sec. 6.
The prohibitions in sections 1 and 2 of this order include:
(a) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and
(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.
Sec. 7.
(a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 8.
For the purposes of this order:
(a) The term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;
(b) the term “foreign financial institution” means any foreign entity that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. The term includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money service businesses, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and holding companies, affiliates, or subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. The term does not include the international financial institutions identified in 22 U.S.C. 262r(c)(2), the International Fund for Agricultural Development, the North American Development Bank, or any other international financial institution so notified by the Secretary of the Treasury;
(c) the term “knowingly,” with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result;
(d) the term “person” means an individual or entity;
(e) the term “United States person” or “U.S. person” means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States; and
(f) the term “Government of Turkey” means the Government of Turkey, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, or any person owned or controlled by or acting for or on behalf of the Government of Turkey.
Sec. 9.
For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to this order.
Sec. 10.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All departments and agencies of the United States shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.
Sec. 11.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit the recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)), and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 12.
(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
DONALD J. TRUMP
THE WHITE HOUSE,
October 14, 2019.
Pt. 570

# PART 570—LIBYAN SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
Sec.
570.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
570.201
Prohibited transactions.
570.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
570.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
570.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.
570.205
Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.
570.206
Exempt transactions.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
570.300
Applicability of definitions.
570.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
570.302
Effective date.
570.303
Entity.
570.304
Financial, material, logistical, or technical support; financial, material, logistical, or technological support.
570.305
Government of Libya.
570.306
Government of National Accord or a successor government.
570.307
[Reserved]
570.308
Interest.
570.309
Licenses; general and specific.
570.310
OFAC.
570.311
Person.
570.312
Property; property interest.
570.313
Transfer.
570.314
United States.
570.315
United States person; U.S. person.
570.316
U.S. financial institution.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
570.401
Reference to amended sections.
570.402
Effect of amendment.
570.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
570.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
570.405
Provision and receipt of services.
570.406
Offshore transactions involving blocked property.
570.407
Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.
570.408
Charitable contributions.
570.409
Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.
570.410
Setoffs prohibited.
570.411
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
570.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
570.502
Effect of license or other authorization.
570.503
Exclusion from licenses.
570.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
570.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.
570.506
Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.
570.507
Provision of certain legal services.
570.508
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
570.509
Emergency medical services.
570.510
Official business of the United States Government.
570.511
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
570.512
Property of the Government of Libya, its agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities, and the Central Bank of Libya.
570.513
Normal operations of investment funds in which there is a blocked non-controlling, minority interest of the Government of Libya.
570.514
Transactions with, and property and interests in property of, the Libyan National Oil Corporation and its subsidiaries.
570.515
Funds of the General National Maritime Transport Company unblocked.
570.516
Property and interests in property of Arab Turkish Bank and North African International Bank unblocked.
570.517
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
570.518
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

# Subpart F—Reports
570.601
Records and reports.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation
570.701
Penalties.
570.702
Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.
570.703
Penalty imposition.
570.704
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.
570.705
Findings of Violation.

# Subpart H—Procedures
570.801
Procedures.
570.802
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
570.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
22 U.S.C. 287c; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13566, 76 FR 11315, 3 CFR, 2011 Comp., p. 222; E.O. 13726, 81 FR 23559, 3 CFR, 2016 Comp., p. 454.

# Source:
87 FR 59678, Oct. 3, 2022, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
§ 570.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
§ 570.201
Prohibited transactions.
(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(1)
Government of Libya.
The Government of Libya, its agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities, and the Central Bank of Libya;
(2)
E.O. 13566 Annex.
The persons listed in the Annex to E.O. 13566 of February 25, 2011;
(3)
E.O. 13566.
Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To be a senior official of the Government of Libya;
(ii) To be a child of Colonel Muammar Qadhafi;
(iii) To be responsible for or complicit in, or responsible for ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, or to have participated in, the commission of human rights abuses related to political repression in Libya;
(iv) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, logistical, or technical support for, or goods or services in support of the activities described in paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, or this paragraph (a)(3);
(v) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, or this paragraph (a)(3); or
(vi) To be a spouse or dependent child of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, or this paragraph (a)(3);
(4)
E.O. 13726.
Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have engaged in, directly or indirectly, any of the following:
(A) Actions or policies that threaten the peace, security, or stability of Libya, including through the supply of arms or related materiel;
(B) Actions or policies that obstruct, undermine, delay, or impede, or pose a significant risk of obstructing, undermining, delaying, or impeding, the adoption of or political transition to a Government of National Accord or a successor government;
(C) Actions that may lead to or result in the misappropriation of state assets of Libya; or
(D) Threatening or coercing Libyan state financial institutions or the Libyan National Oil Company;
(ii) To be planning, directing, or committing, or to have planned, directed, or committed, attacks against any Libyan state facility or installation (including oil facilities), against any air, land, or sea port in Libya, or against any foreign mission in Libya;
(iii) To be involved in, or to have been involved in, the targeting of civilians through the commission of acts of violence, abduction, forced displacement, or attacks on schools, hospitals, religious sites, or locations where civilians are seeking refuge, or through conduct that would constitute a serious abuse or violation of human rights or a violation of international humanitarian law;
(iv) To be involved in, or to have been involved in, the illicit exploitation of crude oil or any other natural resources in Libya, including the illicit production, refining, brokering, sale, purchase, or export of Libyan oil;
(v) To be a leader of an entity that has, or whose members have, engaged in any activity described in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section;
(vi) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, logistical, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of any of the activities described in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a)(4); or
(vii) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a)(4).
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this part, any dealing in securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
(e) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any Executive order issued after April 19, 2016 pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13566 of February 25, 2011 are prohibited pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 570.201:
The names of persons designated or identified as blocked pursuant to E.O. 13566, E.O. 13726, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared therein, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the identifier for E.O. 13566: “[LIBYA2]”; for E.O. 13726: “[LIBYA3]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13566: using the identifier formulation “[LIBYA-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 570.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section. The property and interests in property of persons who meet the definition of the term Government of Libya and are blocked pursuant to
paragraph (a) of this section are blocked regardless of whether the names of such persons are published in the
Federal Register
or incorporated into the SDN List.

# Note 2 to § 570.201:
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
), in section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section may be published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13566: “[BPI-LIBYA2]”; for E.O. 13726: “[BPI-LIBYA3]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13566: “[BPI-LIBYA-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”

# Note 3 to § 570.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.

# Note 4 to § 570.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
[87 FR 59678, Oct. 3, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 75963, Sept. 17, 2024]
§ 570.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 570.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 570.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of
material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 570.201.
§ 570.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 570.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For the purposes of this section, the term
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For the purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For the purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 570.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 570.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds blocked pursuant to § 570.201 not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.
§ 570.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.
(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 570.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 570.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.
§ 570.205
Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.
(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
§ 570.206
Exempt transactions.
(a)
United Nations Participation Act.
The exemptions cited in this section do not apply to transactions involving property or interests in property of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c(b)) (UNPA).

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# ).
Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the UNPA include those listed on
both
OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) and the Consolidated United Nations Security Council Sanctions List (UN List) (
see https://www.un.org
), as well as persons listed on the SDN List for being owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, persons listed on
both
the SDN List and the UN List.
(b)
International Emergency Economic Powers Act.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any transactions that are exempt pursuant to section 203(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)).

# Subpart C—General Definitions
§ 570.300
Applicability of definitions.
The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.
§ 570.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
The terms
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 570.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.

# Note 1 to § 570.301:
See
§ 570.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201.
§ 570.302
Effective date.
(a) The term
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(1) With respect to the Government of Libya or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201(a)(1) or (2), 8:00 p.m. eastern standard time, February 25, 2011; and
(2) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 570.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section, c
onstructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.
§ 570.303
Entity.
The term
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
§ 570.304
Financial, material, logistical, or technical support; financial, material, logistical, or technological support.
The terms financial, material, logistical, or technical support, and financial, material, logistical, or technological support, as used, respectively, in § 570.201(a)(3)(iv) and § 570.201(a)(4)(vi), mean any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
§ 570.305
Government of Libya.
The term
Government of Libya
includes:
(a) The state and the Government of the Libya, as well as any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, and the Central Bank of Libya;
(b) Any entity directly or indirectly owned or controlled by the foregoing, including any corporation, partnership, association, or other entity in which the Government of Libya owns a 50 percent or greater interest or a controlling interest, and any entity which is otherwise controlled by that government;
(c) Any person that is, or has been, since the effective date, acting or purporting to act, directly or indirectly, for or on behalf of any of the foregoing; and
(d) Any other person determined by OFAC to be included within paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.

# Note 1 to § 570.305.
The names of persons that OFAC has determined fall within this definition are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the identifier “[LIBYA2].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
However, the property and interests in property of persons who meet the definition of the term
Government of Libya
and are blocked pursuant to § 570.201 are blocked regardless of whether the names of such persons are published in the
Federal Register
or incorporated into the SDN List.

# Note 2 to § 570.305:
Section 501.807 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed by persons seeking administrative reconsideration of OFAC's determination that they fall within the definition of the term
Government of Libya.
§ 570.306
Government of National Accord or a successor government.
The term
Government of National Accord or a successor government
means:
(a) A Government of National Accord formed pursuant to the terms of the Libyan Political Agreement signed in Skhirat, Morocco, on December 17, 2015, or any amendments thereto;
(b) A governmental authority formed under the Libyan Constitution pursuant to the terms of the Libyan Political Agreement signed in Skhirat, Morocco, on December 17, 2015, or any amendments thereto;
(c) Any subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of the foregoing, and any partnership, association, corporation, or other organization owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by, or acting for or on behalf of, the foregoing; or
(d) Any other person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury to be included within paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
§ 570.307
[Reserved]
§ 570.308
Interest.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
§ 570.309
Licenses; general and specific.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
(c) The term
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.

# Note 1 to § 570.309:
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
§ 570.310
OFAC.
The term
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
§ 570.311
Person.
The term
person
means an individual or entity.
§ 570.312
Property; property interest.
The terms
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
§ 570.313
Transfer.
The term
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
§ 570.314
United States.
The term
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
§ 570.315
United States person; U.S. person.
The term
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign
branches), or any person in the United States.
§ 570.316
U.S. financial institution.
The term
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
§ 570.401
Reference to amended sections.
(a) Reference to any section in this part is a reference to the same as currently amended, unless the reference includes a specific date.
See
44 U.S.C. 1510.
(b) Reference to any ruling, order, instruction, direction, or license issued pursuant to this part is a reference to the same as currently amended unless otherwise so specified.
§ 570.402
Effect of amendment.
Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.
§ 570.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 570.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 570.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.
§ 570.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
(a) Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(1) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201; or
(2) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
(b) For example, a license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Company A, whose property and interests in property are
blocked pursuant to § 570.201, also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks, provided that such other persons are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201.
§ 570.405
Provision and receipt of services.
(a) The prohibitions contained in § 570.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201; or
(2) With respect to property interests of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201.
(b) The prohibitions on transactions contained in § 570.201 apply to services received in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, where the service is performed by, or at the direction of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201.
(c) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201, or negotiate with or enter into contracts signed by a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201.

# Note 1 to § 570.405:
See
§§ 570.507 and 570.509 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
§ 570.406
Offshore transactions involving blocked property.
The prohibitions in § 570.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property, as defined in § 570.301, apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States.
§ 570.407
Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.
Pursuant to § 570.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 570.407:
See also
§ 570.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
§ 570.408
Charitable contributions.
Unless specifically authorized by OFAC pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201. For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201 if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from such a person.
§ 570.409
Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.
The prohibition in § 570.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201.
§ 570.410
Setoffs prohibited.
A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. financial institution or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 570.201 if effected after the effective date.
§ 570.411
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.
(a) Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).
(b) This section, which deals with the consequences of ownership of entities, in no way limits the definition of the Government of Libya in § 570.305, which includes within its definition other persons whose property and interests in property are blocked but who are not on the SDN List.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
§ 570.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Libya sanctions page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
§ 570.502
Effect of license or other authorization.
(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license
or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.
§ 570.503
Exclusion from licenses.
OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.
§ 570.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.

# Note 1 to § 570.504:
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 570.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
§ 570.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.
(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
§ 570.506
Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.
Subject to the requirements of § 570.203, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 570.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (
e.g.,
through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201.
§ 570.507
Provision of certain legal services.
(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to
§ 570.508, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services.
See
§ 570.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 570.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 570.507:
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.
§ 570.508
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
(a)
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 570.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 570.507(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b)
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC
on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[87 FR 59678, Oct. 3, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 103645, Dec. 19, 2024]
§ 570.509
Emergency medical services.
The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.
§ 570.510
Official business of the United States Government.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
§ 570.511
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(e) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria and the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunizations.
§ 570.512
Property of the Government of Libya, its agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities, and the Central Bank of Libya.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, as of December 16, 2011, all property and interests in property of the Government of Libya, its agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities, and the Central Bank of Libya blocked pursuant to § 570.201(a)(1) are unblocked.
(b) All funds, including cash, securities, bank accounts, and investment accounts, and precious metals of the Libyan Investment Authority (LIA) and entities owned or controlled by the LIA blocked pursuant to § 570.201(a)(1), as of September 19, 2011, remain blocked.
§ 570.513
Normal operations of investment funds in which there is a blocked non-controlling, minority interest of the Government of Libya.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, U.S. persons are authorized to continue the normal operations of an investment fund that is organized, located, managed, or administered in the United States in which any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201(a)(1), (2), or (3) has both a non-controlling and a minority interest, provided that the investment fund is not blocked pursuant to any other paragraph of § 570.201.
(b) The authorization in paragraph (a) of this section is subject to the following conditions:
(1) Any payment or transfer of funds, securities, or other assets in the possession or control of a U.S. person to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201 may only be directed or made into a blocked account at a financial institution in the United
States in the name of the blocked person.
(2) Transfers of funds, securities, or other assets by a U.S. person between blocked accounts created or funded pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section in its branches or offices are authorized provided that:
(i) No transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States; and
(ii) A transfer from a blocked account may only be made to another blocked account held in the same name.
(3) No immediate financial or economic benefit is accessible or made available to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201.
(4) U.S. persons shall not:
(i) Make any loans to, or on behalf of, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201; or
(ii) Debit a blocked account for repayment of a loan or as setoff for a debt owed by any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201.

# Note 1 to § 570.513:
Normal operations include: investment management functions; the purchase and disposition of portfolio investments; the custody of portfolio investments; the making of payments owed by the investment fund to its managers, other service providers, directors, government regulators, tax authorities, or investors whose property and interests in property are not blocked; or the receipt of funds, securities, or other assets.
§ 570.514
Transactions with, and property and interests in property of, the Libyan National Oil Corporation and its subsidiaries.
(a) As of September 19, 2011, all transactions involving the Libyan National Oil Corporation (NOC) or entities owned or controlled by the NOC are authorized, provided that such transactions do not involve any other persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) As of September 19, 2011, all property and interests in property of the NOC and entities owned or controlled by the NOC are unblocked.
(c) Within 10 business days of the release of any blocked funds, including cash and securities, pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, a report must be filed with the Compliance Division of the Office of Foreign Assets Control via email to
OFACreport@treasury.gov.
For each amount released, the report must include a copy of the related initial blocking report and indicate the date that the funds were released and the amount released.
[87 FR 59678, Oct. 3, 2022, as amended 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]
§ 570.515
Funds of the General National Maritime Transport Company unblocked.
(a) As of November 18, 2011, all funds, including cash, securities, bank accounts, and investment accounts, and precious metals of the General National Maritime Transport Company blocked pursuant to § 570.201(a)(1) or (3) are unblocked.
(b) Within 10 business days of the release of any blocked funds or precious metals pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, a report must be filed with the Compliance Division of the Office of Foreign Assets Control via email to
OFACreport@treasury.gov.
For each amount released, the report must include a copy of the related initial blocking report and indicate the date that the funds were released and the amount released.
[87 FR 59678, Oct. 3, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]
§ 570.516
Property and interests in property of Arab Turkish Bank and North African International Bank unblocked.
(a) As of December 1, 2011, all property and interests in property of Arab Turkish Bank and North African International Bank blocked pursuant to § 570.201(a)(1) or (3) are unblocked.
(b) Within 10 business days of the release of any blocked funds, including cash, securities, bank accounts, and investment accounts, pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, a report must be filed with the Compliance Division of the Office of Foreign Assets Control via email to
OFACreport@treasury.gov.
For each amount released, the report
must include a copy of the related initial blocking report and indicate the date that the funds were released and the amount released.
[87 FR 59678, Oct. 3, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]
§ 570.517
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.

# Note 1 to § 570.517.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78496, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 570.518
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.
(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1)
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2)
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3)
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).

# Note 1 to § 570.518.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78497, Dec. 21, 2022]

# Subpart F—Reports
§ 570.601
Records and reports.
For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation
§ 570.701
Penalties.
(a) Section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (IEEPA) is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) IEEPA provides for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b)(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Section 5(b) of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c(b)) (UNPA), provides that any person who willfully violates or evades or attempts to violate or evade any order, rule, or regulation issued by the President pursuant to section 5(a) of the UNPA shall, upon conviction, be
fined not more than $1,000,000 and, if a natural person, may also be imprisoned for not more than 20 years.
(e) Violations involving transactions described at section 203(b)(1), (3), and (4) of IEEPA shall be subject only to the penalties set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.
(f) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[87 FR 59678, Oct. 3, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 2233, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2143, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3692, Jan. 15, 2025]
§ 570.702
Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.
(a)
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b)
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2)
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i)
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii)
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3)
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d)
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e)
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[87 FR 59678, Oct. 3, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]
§ 570.703
Penalty imposition.
If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
§ 570.704
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.
In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.
§ 570.705
Findings of Violation.
(a)
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706);
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b)
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2)
Deadline for response; default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(i)
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii)
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3)
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial
Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4)
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c)
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(2)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# )(2):
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d)
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[87 FR 59678, Oct. 3, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]

# Subpart H—Procedures
§ 570.801
Procedures.
For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
§ 570.802
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.
Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to E.O. 13566 of February 25, 2011, E.O. 13726 of April 19, 2016, and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared therein, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
§ 570.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
Pt. 576

# PART 576—IRAQ STABILIZATION AND INSURGENCY SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
Sec.
576.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
576.201
Prohibited transactions involving blocked property.
576.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
576.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
576.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked physical property; liquidation of blocked property.
576.205
Evasions; attempts; conspiracies.
576.207
Exemption for property controlled by the military forces of the United States and their coalition partners in Iraq.
576.208
Prohibited transactions related to certain Iraqi cultural property.
576.209
Exempt transactions.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
576.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
576.302
Development Fund for Iraq.
576.303
Effective date.
576.304
Entity.
576.305
Former Iraqi regime.
576.306
Information or informational materials.
576.307
Interest.
576.309
Licenses; general and specific.
576.310
Government of Iraq.
576.311
Person.
576.312
Property; property interest.
576.313
Transfer.
576.314
UNSC Resolution 1483.
576.315
United States.
576.316
U.S. financial institution.
576.317
United States person; U.S. person.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
576.401
Reference to amended sections.
576.402
Effect of amendment.
576.403
Setoffs prohibited.
576.404
Termination and acquisition of an interest in property.
576.405
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
576.406
Provision of services.
576.407
Offshore transactions.
576.408
Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.
576.409
Charitable contributions.
576.410
Credit extended and cards issued by U.S. financial institutions.
576.411
Prohibited transactions involving certain Iraqi cultural property.
576.412
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
576.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
576.502
Effect of license or authorization.
576.503
Exclusion from licenses.
576.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
576.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges authorized.
576.506
Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.
576.507
Provision of certain legal services.
576.508
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
576.509
Authorization of emergency medical services.
576.510
Unblocking certain blocked property.
576.511
Property controlled by the military forces of the United States and their coalition partners in Iraq.
576.512
Transactions with certain blocked persons authorized.
576.513
Official business of the United States Government.
576.514
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
576.515
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
576.516
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

# Subpart F—Reports
576.601
Records and reports.

# Subpart G—Penalties
576.701
Penalties.
576.702
Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.
576.703
Penalty imposition.
576.704
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

# Subpart H—Procedures
576.801
Procedures.
576.802
Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
576.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 22 U.S.C. 287c; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13303, 68 FR 31931, 3 CFR, 2003 Comp., p. 227; E.O. 13315, 68 FR 52315, 3 CFR, 2003 Comp., p. 252; E.O. 13350, 69 FR 46055, 3 CFR, 2004 Comp., p. 196; E.O. 13364, 69 FR 70177, 3 CFR, 2004 Comp., p. 236; E.O. 13438, 72 FR 39719, 3 CFR, 2007 Comp., p. 224; E.O. 13668, 79 FR 31019, 3 CFR, 2014 Comp., p. 248.

# Source:
75 FR 55466, Sept. 13, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
§ 576.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

# Note to § 576.101:
The Iraqi Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 575, have been removed from 31 CFR chapter V.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
§ 576.201
Prohibited transactions involving blocked property.
(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of U.S. persons, including their overseas branches, of the former Iraqi regime or its state bodies, corporations, or agencies, or of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(1) Persons listed in the Annex to Executive Order 13315 of August 28, 2003, as amended by Executive Order 13350 of July 29, 2004; and
(2) Persons determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State,
(i) To be senior officials of the former Iraqi regime or their immediate family members; or
(ii) To be owned or controlled by, or acting or purporting to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any of the persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section; and
(3) Persons determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense,
(i) To have committed, or to pose a significant risk of committing, an act or acts of violence that have the purpose or effect of:
(A) Threatening the peace or stability of Iraq or the Government of Iraq; or
(B) Undermining efforts to promote economic reconstruction and political reform in Iraq or to provide humanitarian assistance to the Iraqi people;
(ii) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, logistical, or technical support for, or goods or services in support of, such an act or acts of violence or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section; or
(iii) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# ) of § 576.201:
The names of persons listed in or designated pursuant to Executive Order 13315, as amended by Executive Order 13350, or designated pursuant to Executive Order 13438, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the Office of
Foreign Assets Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (“SDN List”) with the identifier “[IRAQ2]” (for persons designated pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section) or “[IRAQ3]” (for persons designated pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section). The SDN List is accessible through the following page on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site:
http://www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 576.412 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
a

# ) of § 576.201:
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this paragraph (a), the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-IRAQ2]” or “[BPI-IRAQ3].”

# Note 3 to paragraph (
a

# ):
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.

# Note 4 to paragraph (
a

# ):
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a).
(b) All property and interests in property blocked pursuant to Executive Order 12722 of August 2, 1990, or Executive Order 12724 of August 9, 1990, that continued to be blocked as of July 30, 2004, remain blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in, except as authorized by regulations, orders, directives, rulings, instructions, licenses or otherwise, and notwithstanding any contracts entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# ) of § 576.201:
In § 576.510 of this part, the Office of Foreign Assets Control authorizes all transactions involving property and interests in property blocked solely pursuant to Executive Orders 12722 or 12724. The Iraqi Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 575, which implemented Executive Orders 12722 and 12724, have been removed from 31 CFR chapter V.
(c) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section include, but are not limited to, prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section.
(d) Unless otherwise authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this section, any dealing in any security (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes but is not limited to the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any such security on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies
irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such security may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the security.
(e) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section apply except to the extent transactions are authorized by regulations, orders, directives, rulings, instructions, licenses, or otherwise, and notwithstanding any contracts entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
[75 FR 55466, Sept. 13, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 38543, June 30, 2011; 89 FR 75963, Sept. 17, 2024]
§ 576.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a) or § 576.201(b), is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or property interests.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a) or § 576.201(b), unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, an appropriate license or other authorization issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of IEEPA, Executive Orders 13315, 13350, or 13438, this part, and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of the Office of Foreign Assets Control each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with the Office of Foreign Assets Control a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other direction or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ) of § 576.202:
The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section have been satisfied.
(e) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property in which, on or since the effective date, there existed an interest of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a), or with respect to any property and interests in property blocked pursuant to § 576.201(b).
§ 576.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section, or as otherwise directed by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 576.201(a) or § 576.201(b) shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally-insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(3) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to this paragraph (b) may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days. If interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(c) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 576.201(a) or § 576.201(b) may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (b) or (d) of this section.
(d) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 576.201(a) or § 576.201(b) may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(e) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as chattels or real estate, or other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, the Office of Foreign Assets Control may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(f) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides immediate financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a), nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.
§ 576.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked physical property; liquidation of blocked property.
(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of physical property blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a) or § 576.201(b) shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a) or § 576.201(b) may, in the discretion of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.
§ 576.205
Evasions; attempts; conspiracies.
(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, any transaction by any U.S. person or within the United States on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
§ 576.207
Exemption for property controlled by the military forces of the United States and their coalition partners in Iraq.
The prohibitions in § 576.201(a)(1) and (a)(2) shall not apply to property and interests in property that come under the control of the military forces of the United States and their coalition partners present in Iraq and acting in their official capacity under the command or operational control of the commander of United States Central Command.
§ 576.208
Prohibited transactions related to certain Iraqi cultural property.
Unless licensed or otherwise authorized pursuant to this part or otherwise consistent with U.S. law, the trade in or transfer of ownership or possession of Iraqi cultural property or other items of archeological, historical, cultural, rare scientific, and religious importance that were illegally removed, or for which a reasonable suspicion exists that they were illegally removed, from the Iraq National Museum, the National Library, and other locations in Iraq since August 6, 1990, is prohibited.

# Note to § 576.208:
See
§ 576.411 for interpretive guidance on this section. Questions concerning whether particular Iraqi cultural property or other items are subject to this section should be directed to the Cultural Heritage Center, U.S. Department of State, tel. 202-632-6301, fax 202-632-6300, Web site
http://culturalheritage.state.gov,
e-mail
culprop@state.gov.
§ 576.209
Exempt transactions.
(a)
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in § 576.201(a)(3) do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
(b)
Information or informational materials.
(1) The importation from any country and the exportation to any country of any information or informational materials, as defined in § 576.306, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission, are exempt from the prohibitions of § 576.201(a)(3).
(2) This section does not exempt from regulation or authorize transactions related to information or informational materials not fully created and in existence at the date of the transactions, or to the substantive or artistic alteration or enhancement of informational materials, or to the provision of marketing and business consulting services. Such prohibited transactions include, but are not limited to, payment of advances for information or informational materials not yet created and completed (with the exception of prepaid subscriptions for widely circulated magazines and other periodical publications); provision of services to market, produce or co-produce, create, or assist in the creation of information or informational materials; and, with respect to information or informational materials imported from persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a)(3), payment of royalties with respect to income received for enhancements or alterations made by U.S. persons to such information or informational materials.
(3) This section does not exempt or authorize transactions incident to the exportation of software subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730-774, or to the exportation of goods, technology, or software for use in the transmission of any data, or to the provision, sale, or leasing of capacity on telecommunications transmission facilities (such as satellite or terrestrial network
connectivity) for use in the transmission of any data. The exportation of such items or services and the provision, sale, or leasing of such capacity or facilities to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a) are prohibited.
(c)
Travel.
The prohibitions contained in § 576.201(a)(3) do not apply to any transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
§ 576.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
The terms
blocked account
and
blocked property
shall mean:
(a) (1) Any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 576.201(a) held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a), or in which such person has an interest, or
(2) Any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 576.201(b), and
(b) With respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to an authorization or license from the Office of Foreign Assets Control expressly authorizing such action.

# Note 1 to § 576.301:
See
§ 576.412 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a).
[75 FR 55466, Sept. 13, 2010, as amended at 87 FR 78478, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 576.302
Development Fund for Iraq.
The term
Development Fund for Iraq
means the fund established on or about May 22, 2003, on the books of the Central Bank of Iraq, by the Administrator of the Coalition Provisional Authority responsible for the temporary governance of Iraq and all accounts held for the fund or for the Central Bank of Iraq in the name of the fund.
§ 576.303
Effective date.
The term
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(a) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a)(1):
(1) 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, August 29, 2003, for those persons listed on the Annex to Executive Order 13315; and
(2) 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, July 30, 2004, for those persons added to the Annex to Executive Order 13315 by Executive Order 13350;
(b) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a)(2) or (a)(3), the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked; and
(c) With respect to the transactions prohibited by § 576.201(b) or § 576.208, 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, July 30, 2004.
[75 FR 55466, Sept. 13, 2010, as amended 82 FR 61451, Dec. 28, 2017]
§ 576.304
Entity.
The term
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup or other organization.
§ 576.305
Former Iraqi regime.
The term
former Iraqi regime
means the Saddam Hussein regime that governed Iraq until on or about May 1, 2003.
§ 576.306
Information or informational materials.
(a) For purposes of this part, the term
information or informational materials
includes, but is not limited to, publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# ) of § 576.307:
To be considered information or informational materials, artworks must be classified under chapter heading 9701, 9702, or 9703 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
(b) The term
information or informational materials,
with respect to United States exports, does not include items:
(1) That were, as of April 30, 1994, or that thereafter become, controlled for export pursuant to sections 5 of the Export Administration Act of 1979, 50 U.S.C. App. 2401-2420 (1979) (the “EAA”), or section 6 of the EAA to the extent that such controls promote the nonproliferation or antiterrorism policies of the United States; or
(2) With respect to which acts are prohibited by 18 U.S.C. chapter 37.
§ 576.307
Interest.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”) means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
§ 576.309
Licenses; general and specific.
(a) Except as otherwise specified, the term
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part.
(c) The term
specific license
means any license or authorization not set forth in subpart E of this part but issued pursuant to this part.

# Note to § 576.309:
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter for licensing procedures.
§ 576.310
Government of Iraq.
The term
Government of Iraq
means:
(a) Any interim or permanent Iraqi government in authority after June 30, 2004, and any subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof; and
(b) Any partnership, association, corporation, or other organization substantially owned or controlled by the foregoing.
§ 576.311
Person.
The term
person
means an individual or entity.
§ 576.312
Property; property interest.
The terms
property
and
property interest
include, but are not limited to, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future or contingent.
§ 576.313
Transfer.
The term
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any
lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
§ 576.314
UNSC Resolution 1483.
The term
UNSC Resolution 1483
means United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 1483, adopted May 22, 2003.
§ 576.315
United States.
The term
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
§ 576.316
U.S. financial institution.
The term
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes but is not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
§ 576.317
United States person; U.S. person.
The term
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
§ 576.401
Reference to amended sections.
Except as otherwise specified, reference to any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or to any regulation, ruling, order, instruction, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part refers to the same as currently amended.
§ 576.402
Effect of amendment.
Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.
§ 576.403
Setoffs prohibited.
A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 576.201 if made after the effective date.
§ 576.404
Termination and acquisition of an interest in property.
(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 576.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 576.201 or any other part of this chapter, the transfer of which has not been
effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a), such property shall be deemed to be property in which that person has an interest and therefore blocked.
[75 FR 55466, Sept. 13, 2010, as amended 82 FR 61451, Dec. 28, 2017]
§ 576.405
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(a) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a); or
(b) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
(c)

# Example.
A license authorizing Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a), to complete a securities sale also authorizes all activities by other parties required to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, banks, etc., provided that such other parties are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a).
§ 576.406
Provision of services.
(a) Except as provided in § 576.209, the prohibitions on transactions involving blocked property contained in § 576.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, including by an overseas branch of an entity located in the United States:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a); or
(2) With respect to property interests subject to § 576.201.
(b)

# Example:
U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a).

# Note to § 576.406:
See
§§ 576.507 and 576.509 on licensing policy with regard to the provision of certain legal and medical services.
§ 576.407
Offshore transactions.
The prohibitions in § 576.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States with respect to property held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201, or property in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201 has or has had an interest since the effective date.
§ 576.408
Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.
Pursuant to § 576.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.
§ 576.409
Charitable contributions.
Unless specifically authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a). For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a) if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or
controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from any such person.
§ 576.410
Credit extended and cards issued by U.S. financial institutions.
The prohibition in § 576.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including, but not limited to, charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a U.S. financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a).
§ 576.411
Prohibited transactions involving certain Iraqi cultural property.
(a) The prohibition on trade in or transfer of ownership or possession of certain Iraqi cultural property in § 576.208 is separate from, and independent of, other laws and regulations that may also prohibit the same conduct.
(b) The mere compliance with certain legal, administrative, or procedural requirements, such as the filing of a U.S. Customs and Border Protection Form 3461 (Entry/Immediate Delivery) or U.S. Customs and Border Protection Form 7501 (Entry Summary), does not render the trade in or transfer of Iraqi cultural property otherwise consistent with U.S. law for purposes of § 576.208. The trade in or transfer of Iraqi cultural property as described in § 576.208 would violate § 576.208 regardless of whether the U.S. Customs and Border Protection forms were truthfully and accurately completed.

# Note to § 576.411:
Other laws and regulations potentially applicable to the unlawful trade in or transfer of Iraqi cultural property include, but are not limited to, the transportation of stolen goods, 18 U.S.C. 2314; the receipt of stolen goods, 18 U.S.C. 2315; the importation of goods contrary to law, 18 U.S.C. 545 and 19 U.S.C. 1595a(a), (b), and (c); the exportation of goods contrary to law, 19 U.S.C. 1595a(d); the importation of stolen cultural property, 19 U.S.C. 2607; the importation of cultural property pertaining to the inventory of a museum or religious or secular public monument, 19 CFR 12.104a; and the emergency protection of Iraqi cultural antiquities, 19 CFR 12.104j.
§ 576.412
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.
Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).
[87 FR 78478, Dec. 21, 2022]

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
§ 576.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
For provisions relating to licensing procedures,
see
part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part.
§ 576.502
Effect of license or authorization.
(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction or license is issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other
part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction otherwise prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property which would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
§ 576.503
Exclusion from licenses.
The Office of Foreign Assets Control reserves the right to exclude any person, property, or transaction from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. The Office of Foreign Assets Control also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.
§ 576.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a) has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.

# Note to § 576.504:
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 576.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
§ 576.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges authorized.
(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term
normal service charge
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
§ 576.506
Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.
Subject to the requirements of § 576.203, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 576.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (
e.g.,
through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a).
§ 576.507
Provision of certain legal services.
(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons
whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 576.508, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services.
See
§ 576.405.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 576.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 576.507:
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.
[75 FR 55466, Sept. 13, 2010, 89 FR 103646, Dec. 19, 2024]
§ 576.508
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
(a)
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 576.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 576.507(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201, any other part of this chapter, or any
Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b)
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[89 FR 103646, Dec. 19, 2024]
§ 576.509
Authorization of emergency medical services.
The provision of nonscheduled emergency medical services in the United States to persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a) is authorized, provided that all receipt of payment for such services must be specifically licensed.
§ 576.510
Unblocking certain blocked property.
(a) Except for such property and interests in property described in paragraph (b) of this section, all transactions involving property and interests in property blocked pursuant to § 576.201(b) of this part are authorized.
(b) The authorization in paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to blocked property and interests in property of persons subject to sanctions pursuant to § 576.201(a) of this part or any other part of 31 CFR chapter V.
§ 576.511
Property controlled by the military forces of the United States and their coalition partners in Iraq.
The prohibition in § 576.201(a)(3) that deals with blocked property and interests in property shall not apply to property and interests in property controlled by the military forces of the United States and their coalition partners present in Iraq and acting in their official capacity under the command or operational control of the commander of United States Central Command.

# Note to § 576.511:
See
§ 576.207 of this part, which exempts property and interests in property that come under the control of the military forces of the United States and their coalition partners present in Iraq and acting in their official capacity from the prohibitions in § 576.201(a)(1) and (2).
§ 576.512
Transactions with certain blocked persons authorized.
(a) All transactions with state bodies, corporations, or agencies of the former Iraqi regime that are otherwise prohibited by § 576.201(a) are authorized.
(b) The authorization in paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to any transactions with state bodies, corporations, or agencies of the former Iraqi regime listed on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List.
[75 FR 55466, Sept. 13, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 38542, June 30, 2011]
§ 576.513
Official business of the United States Government.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[87 FR 78478, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 576.514
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(e) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
[87 FR 78478, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 576.515
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.

# Note 1 to § 576.515.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78497, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 576.516
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.
(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items
are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1)
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2)
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3)
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).

# Note 1 to § 576.516.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78497, Dec. 21, 2022]

# Subpart F—Reports
§ 576.601
Records and reports.
For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

# Subpart G—Penalties
§ 576.701
Penalties.
(a) Attention is directed to section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (“IEEPA”), which is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, or regulation issued under IEEPA.
(2) The applicable maximum civil penalty per violation of IEEPA is the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, or willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, may be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b)
Adjustments to penalty amounts.
(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Attention is also directed to 18 U.S.C. 1001, which provides that whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry
shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Violations of this part may also be subject to relevant provisions of other applicable laws.
[75 FR 55466, Sept. 13, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 43076, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 10438, Feb. 10, 2017; 83 FR 11880, Mar. 19, 2018; 84 FR 27718, June 14, 2019; 85 FR 19888, Apr. 9, 2020; 86 FR 14538, Mar. 17, 2021; 87 FR 7373, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2233, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2143, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3692, Jan. 15, 2025]
§ 576.702
Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.
(a)
When required.
If the Office of Foreign Assets Control has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, the Office of Foreign Assets Control will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see Appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b)(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to the Office of Foreign Assets Control. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see Appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2)
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within the applicable 30-day period set forth in this paragraph. The failure to submit a response within the applicable time period set forth in this paragraph shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i)
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to the Office of Foreign Assets Control by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii)
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, only upon specific request to the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
(3)
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and must include the Office of Foreign Assets Control identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to the Office of Foreign Assets Control Civil Penalties Division by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d)
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by the Office of Foreign Assets Control are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e)
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with the Office of Foreign Assets Control prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty
Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
§ 576.703
Penalty imposition.
If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, the Office of Foreign Assets Control may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
§ 576.704
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.
In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.

# Subpart H—Procedures
§ 576.801
Procedures.
For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
§ 576.802
Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 13303 of May 22, 2003, and any subsequent Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared therein, including but not limited to Executive Order 13315 of August 28, 2003, and Executive Order 13438 of July 17, 2007, may be taken by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated the authority so to act.
(b) Unless otherwise delegated, the authority provided in section 2 of Executive Order 13315 to confiscate property blocked pursuant to this part and transfer all vested right, title, and interest in such property to the Development Fund for Iraq shall be exercised only by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
§ 576.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures (including those pursuant to statements of licensing policy), and other procedures, see 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
Pt. 578

# PART 578—CYBER-RELATED SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
Sec.
578.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
578.201
Prohibited transactions.
578.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
578.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
578.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.
578.205
Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.
578.206
Exempt transactions.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
578.300
Applicability of definitions.
578.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
578.302
Critical infrastructure sector.
578.303
Cyber-enabled activities.
578.304
Effective date.
578.305
Entity.
578.306
Financial, material, or technological support.
578.307
Foreign person.
578.308
[Reserved]
578.309
Interest.
578.310
Licenses; general and specific.
578.311
Misappropriation.
578.312
OFAC.
578.313
Person.
578.314
Property; property interest.
578.315
Significant activities undermining cybersecurity.
578.316
Transfer.
578.317
United States.
578.318
United States person; U.S. person.
578.319
U.S. financial institution.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
578.401
Reference to amended sections.
578.402
Effect of amendment.
578.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
578.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
578.405
Provision and receipt of services.
578.406
Offshore transactions involving blocked property.
578.407
Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.
578.408
Charitable contributions.
578.409
Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.
578.410
Setoffs prohibited.
578.411
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
578.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
578.502
Effect of license or other authorization.
578.503
Exclusion from licenses.
578.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
578.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.
578.506
Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.
578.507
Provision of certain legal services.
578.508
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
578.509
Emergency medical services.
578.510
Official business of the United States Government.
578.511
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
578.512
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
578.513
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

# Subpart F—Reports
578.601
Records and reports.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation
578.701
Penalties.
578.702
Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.
578.703
Penalty imposition.
578.704
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.
578.705
Findings of Violation.

# Subpart H—Procedures
578.801
Procedures.
578.802
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
578.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 115-44, 131 Stat. 886 (codified in scattered sections of 22 U.S.C.); E.O. 13694, 80 FR 18077, 3 CFR 2015 Comp., p. 297; E.O. 13757, 82 FR 1, 3 CFR 2016 Comp., p. 659.

# Source:
87 FR 54376, Sept. 6, 2022, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
§ 578.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
§ 578.201
Prohibited transactions.
(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(1)
Annex to E.O. 13694, as amended by E.O. 13757 (“amended E.O. 13694”).
The persons listed in the Annex to amended E.O. 13694;
(2)
Amended E.O. 13694.
Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of State:
(i) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have engaged in, directly or indirectly, cyber-enabled activities originating from, or directed by persons located, in whole or in substantial part, outside the United States that are reasonably likely to result in, or have materially contributed to, a significant threat to the national security, foreign policy, or economic health or financial stability of the United States and that have the purpose or effect of:
(A) Harming, or otherwise significantly compromising the provision of services by, a computer or network of computers that support one or more entities in a critical infrastructure sector;
(B) Significantly compromising the provision of services by one or more entities in a critical infrastructure sector;
(C) Causing a significant disruption to the availability of a computer or network of computers;
(D) Causing a significant misappropriation of funds or economic resources, trade secrets, personal identifiers, or financial information for commercial or competitive advantage or private financial gain; or
(E) Tampering with, altering, or causing a misappropriation of information with the purpose or effect of interfering with or undermining election processes or institutions;
(ii) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have engaged in, the receipt or use for commercial or competitive advantage or private financial gain, or by a commercial entity, outside the United States of trade secrets misappropriated through cyber-enabled means, knowing they have been misappropriated, where the misappropriation of such trade secrets is reasonably likely to result in, or has materially contributed to, a significant threat to the national security, foreign policy, or economy of the United States;
(iii) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any activity described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section or this paragraph (a)(2);
(iv) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in
property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section or this paragraph (a)(2); or
(v) To have attempted to engage in any of the activities described in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section; and
(3)
Section 224(a)(1) of the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (22 U.S.C. 9524) (CAATSA).
Any person that the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, determines:
(i) Knowingly engages in significant activities undermining cybersecurity against any person, including a democratic institution, or government on behalf of the Government of the Russian Federation; or
(ii) Is owned or controlled by, or acts or purports to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, a person described in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section.
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this part, any dealing in securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
(e) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any Executive order issued after December 28, 2016, pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13694 of April 1, 2015, are prohibited pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 578.201.
The names of persons designated or identified as blocked pursuant to amended E.O. 13694, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared therein, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: for amended E.O. 13694: “[CYBER2]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13694: using the identifier formulation “[CYBER-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” Persons designated pursuant to Section 224(a)(1) of CAATSA will have the identifier “[CAATSA-RUSSIA]”. Certain transactions with persons blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section relating to the Russian Federation may result in the imposition of secondary sanctions, and therefore such blocked persons' entries on the SDN List will include the descriptive prefix text “Secondary sanctions risk:” followed by information about the applicable secondary sanctions authority. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 578.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.

# Note 2 to § 578.201.
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) in section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702) authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described
in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for amended E.O. 13694: “[BPI-CYBER2]”; for CAATSA: “[BPI-CAATSA-RUSSIA]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13694: “[BPI-CYBER-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”

# Note 3 to § 578.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.

# Note 4 to § 578.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
[87 FR 54376, Sept. 6, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 75964, Sept. 17, 2024]
§ 578.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 578.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 578.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 578.201.
§ 578.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 578.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For the purposes of this section, the term
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For the purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For the purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 578.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 578.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds blocked pursuant to § 578.201 may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.
§ 578.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.
(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to
the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 578.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 578.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.
§ 578.205
Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.
(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
§ 578.206
Exempt transactions.
(a)
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
(b)
U.S. intelligence activities.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to activities subject to the reporting requirements under title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091
et seq.
), or any authorized intelligence activities of the United States.
(c)
Activities of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to activities of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), including the supply by any entity of the Russian Federation of any product or service, or the procurement of such product or service by any contractor or subcontractor of the United States or any other entity, relating to or in connection with any space launch conducted for NASA or any other non-Department of Defense customer.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
§ 578.300
Applicability of definitions.
The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.
§ 578.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
The terms
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 578.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.

# Note 1 to § 578.301.
See
§ 578.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201.
§ 578.302
Critical infrastructure sector.
The term
critical infrastructure sector
means any of the designated critical infrastructure sectors identified in Presidential Policy Directive 21 of February 12, 2013.
§ 578.303
Cyber-enabled activities.
The term
cyber-enabled activities
includes any act that is primarily accomplished through or facilitated by computers or other electronic devices.
§ 578.304
Effective date.
(a) The term
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(1) With respect to a person listed in the Annex to E.O. 13694, as amended by E.O. 13757, 12:01 eastern standard time, December 29, 2016.
(2) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 578.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section, c
onstructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.
§ 578.305
Entity.
The term
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
§ 578.306
Financial, material, or technological support.
The term
financial, material, or technological support,
as used in this part, means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods.
Technologies
as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
§ 578.307
Foreign person.
The term
foreign person
means any person that is not a U.S. person.
§ 578.308
[Reserved]
§ 578.309
Interest.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
§ 578.310
Licenses; general and specific.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
(c) The term
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.

# Note 1 to § 578.310.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
§ 578.311
Misappropriation.
The term
misappropriation
includes any taking or obtaining by improper means, without permission or consent, or under false pretenses.
§ 578.312
OFAC.
The term
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
§ 578.313
Person.
The term
person
means an individual or entity.
§ 578.314
Property; property interest.
The terms
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other
property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
§ 578.315
Significant activities undermining cybersecurity.
The term
significant activities undermining cybersecurity
includes: significant efforts to deny access to or degrade, disrupt, or destroy an information and communications technology system or network; or to exfiltrate, degrade, corrupt, destroy, or release information from such a system or network without authorization for purposes of conducting influence operations; or causing a significant misappropriation of funds, economic resources, trade secrets, personal identifications, or financial information for commercial or competitive advantage or private financial gain; significant destructive malware attacks; and significant denial of service activities.
§ 578.316
Transfer.
The term
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
§ 578.317
United States.
The term
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
§ 578.318
United States person; U.S. person.
The term
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
§ 578.319
U.S. financial institution.
The term
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
§ 578.401
Reference to amended sections.
(a) Reference to any section in this part is a reference to the same as currently amended, unless the reference includes a specific date.
See
44 U.S.C. 1510.
(b) Reference to any ruling, order, instruction, direction, or license issued pursuant to this part is a reference to the same as currently amended unless otherwise so specified.
§ 578.402
Effect of amendment.
Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.
§ 578.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 578.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 578.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.
§ 578.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
(a) Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(1) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201; or
(2) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
(b) For example, a license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201, also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks, provided that such other persons are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201.
§ 578.405
Provision and receipt of services.
(a) The prohibitions contained in § 578.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201; or
(2) With respect to property interests of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201.
(b) The prohibitions on transactions contained in § 578.201 apply to services received in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, where the service is performed by, or at the direction of, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201.
(c) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201, or negotiate with or enter into contracts signed by a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201.

# Note 1 to § 578.405.
See
§§ 578.507 and 578.509 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
§ 578.406
Offshore transactions involving blocked property.
The prohibitions in § 578.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property, as defined in § 578.301, apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States.
§ 578.407
Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.
Pursuant to § 578.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 578.407.
See also
§ 578.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
§ 578.408
Charitable contributions.
Unless specifically authorized by OFAC pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201. For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201 if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from such a person.
§ 578.409
Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.
The prohibition in § 578.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201.
§ 578.410
Setoffs prohibited.
A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. financial institution or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 578.201 if effected after the effective date.
§ 578.411
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.
Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
§ 578.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Sanctions Related to Significant Malicious Cyber-Enabled Activities page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.

# Note 1 to § 578.501.
Section 216 of the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (22 U.S.C. 9511) requires congressional review prior to the issuance of a license that significantly alters the United States' foreign policy with regard to the Russian Federation.
§ 578.502
Effect of license or other authorization.
(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. Government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. Government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.
§ 578.503
Exclusion from licenses.
OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.
§ 578.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201 has any
interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.

# Note 1 to § 578.504.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 578.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
§ 578.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.
(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
§ 578.506
Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.
Subject to the requirements of § 578.203, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 578.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (
e.g.,
through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201.
§ 578.507
Provision of certain legal services.
(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 578.508, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. Federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. Federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. Federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services.
See
§ 578.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 578.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 578.507.
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.
§ 578.508
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
(a)
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 578.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 578.506(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b)
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[87 FR 54376, Sept. 6, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 103646, Dec. 19, 2024]
§ 578.509
Emergency medical services.
The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.
§ 578.510
Official business of the United States Government.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
§ 578.511
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing; and
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.
§ 578.512
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.

# Note 1 to § 578.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78498, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 578.513
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.
(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1)
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2)
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3)
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).

# Note 1 to § 578.513.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78498, Dec. 21, 2022]

# Subpart F—Reports
§ 578.601
Records and reports.
For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation
§ 578.701
Penalties.
(a) Section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (IEEPA) is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) IEEPA provides for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b)(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[87 FR 54376, Sept. 6, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 2233, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2143, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3692, Jan. 15, 2025]
§ 578.702
Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.
(a)
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b)
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2)
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i)
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii)
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3)
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Office of Compliance and Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d)
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e)
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[87 FR 59678, Oct. 3, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]
§ 578.703
Penalty imposition.
If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
§ 578.704
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.
In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a Federal district court.
§ 578.705
Findings of Violation.
(a)
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
);
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b)
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2)
Deadline for response; default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
(i)
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii)
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any
other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3)
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4)
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c)
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
(2)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# )(2).
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d)
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[87 FR 59678, Oct. 3, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]

# Subpart H—Procedures
§ 578.801
Procedures.
For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
§ 578.802
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.
Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to E.O. 13694 of April 1, 2015, as amended by E.O. 13757 of December 28, 2016, and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared therein, and any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Presidential Memorandum of September 29, 2017: Delegation of Certain Functions and Authorities under the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act of 2017, the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014, and the Support for the Sovereignty, Integrity, Democracy, and Economic Stability of Ukraine Act of 2014, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
§ 578.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
Pt. 579

# PART 579—FOREIGN INTERFERENCE IN U.S. ELECTIONS SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
Sec.
579.101B
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
579.201
Prohibited transactions.
579.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
579.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
579.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.
579.205
Exempt transactions.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
579.300
Applicability of definitions.
579.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
579.302
Effective date.
579.303
Entity.
579.304
Financial, material, or technological support.
579.305
Information or informational materials.
579.306
Interest.
579.307
Licenses; general and specific.
579.308
OFAC.
579.309
Person.
579.310
Property; property interest.
579.311
Transfer.
579.312
United States.
579.313
United States person; U.S. person.
579.314
U.S. financial institution.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
579.401
[Reserved]
579.402
Effect of amendment.
579.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
579.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
579.405
Setoffs prohibited.
579.406
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
579.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
579.502
[Reserved]
579.503
Exclusion from licenses.
579.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
579.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.
579.506
Provision of certain legal services.
579.507
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
579.508
Emergency medical services.
579.509
Official business of the United States Government.
579.510
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
579.511
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
579.512
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

# Subpart F—Reports
579.601
Records and reports.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation
579.701
Penalties and Findings of Violation.

# Subpart H—Procedures
579.801
Procedures.
579.802
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
579.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
Appendix A to Part 579—Executive Order 13848

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13848, 83 FR 46843, 3 CFR, 2018 Comp., p. 869.

# Source:
84 FR 17951, Apr. 29, 2019, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
§ 579.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

# Note 1 to § 579.101:
This part has been published in abbreviated form for the purpose of providing immediate guidance to the public. OFAC intends to supplement this part with a more comprehensive set of regulations, which may include additional interpretive and definitional guidance, general licenses, and statements of licensing policy.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
§ 579.201
Prohibited transactions.
All transactions prohibited pursuant to Executive Order 13848 of September 12, 2018, are also prohibited pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 579.201:
The names of persons designated pursuant to Executive Order 13848, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the identifier [“ELECTION-EO13848”]. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 579.406 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.

# Note 2 to § 579.201:
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-ELECTION-EO13848]”.

# Note 3 to § 579.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.

# Note 4 to § 579.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section.
[84 FR 17951, Apr. 29, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 75964, Sept. 17, 2024]
§ 579.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 579.201, is null and void and shall not
be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 579.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 579.201.
§ 579.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 579.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of
this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 579.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 579.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.
§ 579.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.
(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 579.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 579.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.
§ 579.205
Exempt transactions.
(a)
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
(b)
Information or informational materials.
(1) The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to the importation from any country and the exportation to any country of any information or informational materials, as defined in § 579.305, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission.
(2) This section does not exempt from regulation transactions related to information or informational materials not fully created and in existence at the date of the transactions, or to the substantive or artistic alteration or enhancement of information or informational materials, or to the provision of marketing and business consulting services. Such prohibited transactions include payment of advances for information or informational materials not yet created and completed (with the exception of prepaid subscriptions for widely circulated magazines and other periodical publications); provision of services to market, produce or co-produce, create, or assist in the creation of information or informational materials; and payment of royalties with respect to income received for enhancements or alterations made by U.S. persons to such information or informational materials.
(3) This section does not exempt transactions incident to the exportation of software subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774, or to the exportation of goods (including software) or technology for use in the transmission of any data, or to the provision, sale, or leasing of capacity on telecommunications transmission facilities (such as satellite or terrestrial network connectivity) for use in the transmission of any data. The exportation of such items or services and the provision, sale, or leasing of such capacity or facilities to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201 are prohibited.
(c)
Travel.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation or exportation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.
(d)
Official business.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
§ 579.300
Applicability of definitions.
The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.
§ 579.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
The terms
blocked account
and
blocked property
shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 579.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.

# Note 1 to § 579.301:
See § 579.406 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201.
§ 579.302
Effective date.
(a) The term
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and, with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 579.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section,
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.
§ 579.303
Entity.
The term
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
§ 579.304
Financial, material, or technological support.
The term
financial, material, or technological support,
as used in Executive Order 13848 of September 14, 2018, means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
§ 579.305
Information or informational materials.
(a)(1) The term
information or informational materials
includes publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.
(2) To be considered information or informational materials, artworks must be classified under heading 9701, 9702, or 9703 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
(b) The term
information or informational materials,
with respect to exports, does not include items:
(1) That were, as of April 30, 1994, or that thereafter become, controlled for export pursuant to section 5 of the Export Administration Act of 1979, 50 U.S.C. App. 2401-2420 (1979) (EAA), or section 6 of the EAA to the extent that such controls promote the nonproliferation or antiterrorism policies of the United States; or
(2) With respect to which acts are prohibited by 18 U.S.C. chapter 37.
§ 579.306
Interest.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
§ 579.307
Licenses; general and specific.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
(c) The term
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.

# Note 1 to § 579.307:
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
§ 579.308
OFAC.
The term
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
§ 579.309
Person.
The term
person
means an individual or entity.
§ 579.310
Property; property interest.
The terms
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
§ 579.311
Transfer.
The term
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off
of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
§ 579.312
United States.
The term
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
§ 579.313
United States person; U.S. person.
The term
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
§ 579.314
U.S. financial institution.
The term
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or other extensions of credit, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
§ 579.401
[Reserved]
§ 579.402
Effect of amendment.
Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.
§ 579.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 579.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 579.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.
§ 579.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary
to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(a) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201; or
(b) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
§ 579.405
Setoffs prohibited.
A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 579.201 if effected after the effective date.
§ 579.406
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.
Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
§ 579.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Foreign Interference in a United States Election Sanctions page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
§ 579.502
[Reserved]
§ 579.503
Exclusion from licenses.
OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.
§ 579.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.

# Note 1 to § 579.504:
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 579.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
§ 579.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.
(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage
costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
§ 579.506
Provision of certain legal services.
(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201 or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13848 of September 12, 2018 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses is authorized pursuant to § 579.507, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201 or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13848 of September 12, 2018, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 579.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 579.201 or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13848 of September 12, 2018, is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 579.506:
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available. For more information, see OFAC's
Guidance on the Release of Limited Amounts of Blocked Funds for Payment of Legal Fees and Costs Incurred in Challenging the Blocking of U.S. Persons in Administrative or Civil Proceedings,
which is available on OFAC's website at:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
§ 579.507
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
(a)
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to
§ 579.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201 or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13848 of September 12, 2018, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 579.506(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order has an interest.
(b)
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[84 FR 17951, Apr. 29, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 103647, Dec. 19, 2024]
§ 579.508
Emergency medical services.
The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are otherwise prohibited by this part or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13848 of September 12, 2018, are authorized.
§ 579.509
Official business of the United States Government.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[87 FR 78479, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 579.510
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(e) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
[87 FR 78479, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 579.511
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in
property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.

# Note 1 to § 579.511.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78499, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 579.512
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.
(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1)
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2)
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3)
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).

# Note 1 to § 579.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78499, Dec. 21, 2022]

# Subpart F—Reports
§ 579.601
Records and reports.
For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation
§ 579.701
Penalties and Findings of Violation.
(a) The penalties available under section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) (IEEPA), as adjusted annually pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note) or, in the case of criminal violations, as adjusted pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571, are applicable to violations of the provisions of this part.
(b) OFAC has the authority, pursuant to IEEPA, to issue Pre-Penalty Notices, Penalty Notices, and Findings of Violation; impose monetary penalties; engage in settlement discussions and enter into settlements; refer matters to the United States Department of Justice for administrative collection; and, in appropriate circumstances, refer matters to appropriate law enforcement agencies for criminal investigation and/or prosecution. For more information, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, which provides a general framework for the enforcement of all economic sanctions programs administered by OFAC, including enforcement-related definitions, types of responses to apparent violations, general factors affecting administrative actions, civil penalties for failure to comply with a requirement to furnish information or keep records, and other general civil penalties information.

# Subpart H—Procedures
§ 579.801
Procedures.
For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
§ 579.802
Delegation of certain authorities by the Secretary of the Treasury.
Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 13848 of September 12, 2018, and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared therein, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
§ 579.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
Pt. 579, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 579—Executive Order 13848

# Executive Order 13848 of September 12, 2018

# Imposing Certain Sanctions in the Event of Foreign Interference in a United States Election
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) (NEA), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, find that the ability of persons located, in whole or in substantial part, outside the United States to interfere in or undermine public confidence in United States elections, including through the unauthorized accessing of election and campaign infrastructure or the covert distribution of propaganda and disinformation, constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. Although there has been no evidence of a foreign power altering the outcome or vote tabulation in any United States election, foreign powers have historically sought to exploit America's free and open political system. In recent years, the proliferation of digital devices and internet-based communications has created significant vulnerabilities and magnified the scope and intensity of the threat of foreign interference, as illustrated in the 2017 Intelligence Community Assessment. I hereby declare a national emergency to deal with this threat. Accordingly, I hereby order:
Section 1.
(a) Not later than 45 days after the conclusion of a United States election, the Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the heads of any other appropriate executive departments and agencies (agencies), shall conduct an assessment of any information indicating that a foreign government, or any person acting as an agent of or on behalf of a foreign government, has acted with the intent or purpose of interfering in that election. The assessment shall identify, to the maximum extent ascertainable, the nature of any foreign interference and any methods employed to execute it, the persons involved, and the foreign government or governments that authorized, directed, sponsored, or supported it. The Director of National Intelligence shall deliver this assessment and appropriate supporting information to the President, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland Security.
(b) Within 45 days of receiving the assessment and information described in section 1(a) of this order, the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the heads of any other appropriate agencies and, as appropriate, State and local officials, shall deliver to the President, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of Defense a report evaluating, with respect to the United States election that is the subject of the assessment described in section 1(a):
(i) the extent to which any foreign interference that targeted election infrastructure materially affected the security or integrity of that infrastructure, the tabulation of votes, or the timely transmission of election results; and
(ii) if any foreign interference involved activities targeting the infrastructure of, or pertaining to, a political organization, campaign, or candidate, the extent to which such activities materially affected the security or integrity of that infrastructure, including by unauthorized access to, disclosure or threatened disclosure of, or alteration or falsification of, information or data.
The report shall identify any material issues of fact with respect to these matters that the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security are unable to evaluate or reach agreement on at the time the report is submitted. The report shall also include updates and recommendations, when appropriate, regarding remedial actions to be taken by the United States Government, other than the sanctions described in sections 2 and 3 of this order.
(c) Heads of all relevant agencies shall transmit to the Director of National Intelligence any information relevant to the execution of the Director's duties pursuant to this order, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law. If relevant information emerges after the submission of the report mandated by section 1(a) of this order, the Director, in consultation with the heads of any other appropriate agencies, shall amend the report, as appropriate, and the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall amend the report required by section 1(b), as appropriate.
(d) Nothing in this order shall prevent the head of any agency or any other appropriate official from tendering to the President, at any time through an appropriate channel, any analysis, information, assessment, or evaluation of foreign interference in a United States election.
(e) If information indicating that foreign interference in a State, tribal, or local election within the United States has occurred is identified, it may be included, as appropriate, in the assessment mandated by section 1(a) of this order or in the report mandated by section 1(b) of this order, or submitted to the President in an independent report.
(f) Not later than 30 days following the date of this order, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director of National Intelligence shall develop a framework for the process that will be used to carry out their respective responsibilities pursuant to this order. The framework, which may be classified in whole or in part, shall focus on ensuring that agencies fulfill their responsibilities pursuant to this order in a manner that maintains methodological consistency; protects law enforcement or other sensitive information and intelligence sources and methods; maintains an appropriate separation between intelligence functions and policy and legal judgments; ensures that efforts to protect electoral processes and institutions are insulated from political bias; and respects the principles of free speech and open debate.
Sec. 2.
(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in: any foreign person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland Security:
(i) to have directly or indirectly engaged in, sponsored, concealed, or otherwise been complicit in foreign interference in a United States election;
(ii) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any activity described in subsection (a)(i) of this section or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or
(iii) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.
(b) Executive Order 13694 of April 1, 2015, as amended by Executive Order 13757 of December 28, 2016, remains in effect. This order is not intended to, and does not, serve to limit the Secretary of the Treasury's discretion to exercise the authorities provided in Executive Order 13694. Where appropriate, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of State, may exercise the authorities described in Executive Order 13694 or other authorities in conjunction with the Secretary of the Treasury's exercise of authorities provided in this order.
(c) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order.
Sec. 3.
Following the transmission of the assessment mandated by section 1(a) and the report mandated by section 1(b):
(a) the Secretary of the Treasury shall review the assessment mandated by section 1(a) and the report mandated by section 1(b), and, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, impose all appropriate sanctions pursuant to section 2(a) of this order and any appropriate sanctions described in section 2(b) of this order; and
(b) the Secretary of State and the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the heads of other appropriate agencies, shall jointly prepare a recommendation for the President as to whether additional sanctions against foreign persons may be appropriate in response to the identified foreign interference and in light of the evaluation in the report mandated by section 1(b) of this order, including, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, proposed sanctions with respect to the largest business entities licensed or domiciled in a country whose government authorized, directed, sponsored, or supported election interference, including at least one entity from each of the following sectors: financial services, defense, energy, technology, and transportation (or, if inapplicable to that country's largest business entities, sectors of comparable strategic significance to that foreign government). The recommendation shall include an assessment of the effect of the recommended sanctions on the economic and national security interests of the United States and its allies. Any recommended sanctions shall be appropriately calibrated to the scope of the foreign interference identified, and may include one or more of the following with respect to each targeted foreign person:
(i) blocking and prohibiting all transactions in a person's property and interests in property subject to United States jurisdiction;
(ii) export license restrictions under any statute or regulation that requires the prior review and approval of the United States Government as a condition for the export or re-export of goods or services;
(iii) prohibitions on United States financial institutions making loans or providing credit to a person;
(iv) restrictions on transactions in foreign exchange in which a person has any interest;
(v) prohibitions on transfers of credit or payments between financial institutions, or by, through, or to any financial institution, for the benefit of a person;
(vi) prohibitions on United States persons investing in or purchasing equity or debt of a person;
(vii) exclusion of a person's alien corporate officers from the United States;
(viii) imposition on a person's alien principal executive officers of any of the sanctions described in this section; or
(ix) any other measures authorized by law.
Sec. 4.
I hereby determine that the making of donations of the type of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 2 of this order.
Sec. 5.
The prohibitions in section 2 of this order include the following:
(a) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and
(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.
Sec. 6.
I hereby find that the unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and I hereby suspend entry into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, of such persons. Such persons shall be treated as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions).
Sec. 7.
(a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 8.
For the purposes of this order:
(a) the term “person” means an individual or entity;
(b) the term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;
(c) the term “United States person” means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person (including a foreign person) in the United States;
(d) the term “election infrastructure” means information and communications technology and systems used by or on behalf of the Federal Government or a State or local government in managing the election process, including voter registration databases, voting machines, voting tabulation equipment, and equipment for the secure transmission of election results;
(e) the term “United States election” means any election for Federal office held on, or after, the date of this order;
(f) the term “foreign interference,” with respect to an election, includes any covert, fraudulent, deceptive, or unlawful actions or attempted actions of a foreign government, or of any person acting as an agent of or on behalf of a foreign government, undertaken with the purpose or effect of influencing, undermining confidence in, or altering the result or reported result of, the election, or undermining public confidence in election processes or institutions;
(g) the term “foreign government” means any national, state, provincial, or other governing authority, any political party, or any official of any governing authority or political party, in each case of a country other than the United States;
(h) the term “covert,” with respect to an action or attempted action, means characterized by an intent or apparent intent that the role of aforeign government will not be apparent or acknowledged publicly; and
(i) the term “State” means the several States or any of the territories, dependencies, or possessions of the United States.
Sec. 9.
For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 2 of this order.
Sec. 10.
Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Sec. 11.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may re-delegate any of these functions to other officers within the Department of the Treasury consistent with applicable law. All agencies of the United States Government are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.
Sec. 12.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit the recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C.1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 13.
This order shall be implemented consistent with 50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(1) and (3).
Sec. 14.
(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
Pt. 582

# PART 582—NICARAGUA SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—Relation of this Part to Other Laws and Regulations
Sec.
582.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
582.201
Prohibited transactions.
582.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
582.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
582.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.
582.205
Exempt transactions.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
582.300
Applicability of definitions.
582.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
582.302
Effective date.
582.303
Entity.
582.304
Financial, material, or technological support.
582.305
Information or informational materials.
582.306
Interest.
582.307
Licenses; general and specific.
582.308
OFAC.
582.309
Person.
582.310
Property; property interest.
582.311
Transfer.
582.312
United States.
582.313
United States person; U.S. person.
582.314
U.S. financial institution.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
582.401
[Reserved]
582.402
Effect of amendment.
582.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
582.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
582.405
Setoffs prohibited.
582.406
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
582.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
582.502
[Reserved]
582.503
Exclusion from licenses.
582.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
582.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.
582.506
Provision of certain legal services.
582.507
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
582.508
Emergency medical services.
582.509
Official business of the United States Government.
582.510
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
582.511
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
582.512
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

# Subpart F—Reports
582.601
Records and reports.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation
582.701
Penalties and Findings of Violation.

# Subpart H—Procedures
582.801
Procedures.
582.802
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
582.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
Appendix A to Part 582—Executive Order 13851 of November 27, 2018

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 115-335, 132 Stat. 5019 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); E.O. 13851, 83 FR 61505, 3 CFR, 2018 Comp., p. 884.

# Source:
84 FR 46441, Sept. 4, 2019, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
§ 582.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

# Note 1 to § 582.101:
This part has been published in abbreviated form for the purpose of providing immediate guidance to the public. OFAC intends to supplement this part with a more comprehensive set of regulations, which may include additional interpretive and definitional guidance, general licenses, and statements of licensing policy.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
§ 582.201
Prohibited transactions.
All transactions prohibited pursuant to Executive Order 13851 of November 27, 2018 (E.O. 13851), or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13851, and any transactions prohibited pursuant to the Nicaragua Human Rights and Anticorruption Act of 2018 (Pub. L. 115-335; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note) (NHRAA), are also prohibited pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 582.201:
The names of persons designated pursuant to E.O. 13851, or listed in or designated or identified pursuant to any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13851, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: For E.O. 13851: “[NICARAGUA]” and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13851: Using the identifier formulation “[NICARAGUA-E.O. [E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]]”. The names of persons designated or identified pursuant to NHRAA will be incorporated into the SDN list with the identifier “[NICARAGUA-NHRAA]”. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 582.406 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.

# Note 2 to § 582.201:
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), and the NHRAA, in section 5(d)(1), authorize the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: For E.O. 13851: “[BPI-NICARAGUA]”; for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13851: Using the identifier formulation “[BPI-NICARAGUA-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]]”; for the NHRAA: “[BPI-NHRAA]”.

# Note 3 to § 582.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking
sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.

# Note 4 to § 582.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section.
[85 FR 43437, July 17, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 75964, Sept. 17, 2024]
§ 582.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 582.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 582.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 582.201.
§ 582.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 582.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 582.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 582.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.
§ 582.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.
(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 582.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 582.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.
§ 582.205
Exempt transactions.
(a)
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
(b)
Information or informational materials.
(1) The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to the importation from any country and the exportation to any country of any information or informational materials, as defined in § 582.305, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission.
(2) This section does not exempt from regulation transactions related to information or informational materials not fully created and in existence at the date of the transactions, or to the substantive or artistic alteration or enhancement of information or informational materials, or to the provision of marketing and business consulting services. Such prohibited transactions include payment of advances for information or informational materials not yet created and completed (with the exception of prepaid subscriptions for widely circulated magazines and other periodical publications); provision of services to market, produce or co-produce, create, or assist in the creation of information or informational materials; and payment of royalties with respect to income received for enhancements or alterations made by U.S. persons to such information or informational materials.
(3) This section does not exempt transactions incident to the exportation of software subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774, or to the exportation of goods (including software) or technology for use in the transmission of any data, or to the provision, sale, or leasing of capacity on telecommunications transmission facilities (such as satellite or terrestrial network connectivity) for use in the transmission of any data. The exportation of such items or services and the provision, sale, or leasing of such capacity or facilities to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201 are prohibited.
(c)
Travel.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation or exportation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
§ 582.300
Applicability of definitions.
The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.
§ 582.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
The terms
blocked account
and
blocked property
shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 582.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.

# Note 1 to § 582.301:
See
§ 582.406 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201.
§ 582.302
Effective date.
(a) The term
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 582.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section,
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.
§ 582.303
Entity.
The term
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
§ 582.304
Financial, material, or technological support.
The term
financial, material, or technological support
means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
§ 582.305
Information or informational materials.
(a)(1) The term
information or informational materials
includes publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.
(2) To be considered information or informational materials, artworks must be classified under heading 9701, 9702, or 9703 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
(b) The term
information or informational materials,
with respect to exports, does not include items:
(1) That were, as of April 30, 1994, or that thereafter become, controlled for export pursuant to section 5 of the Export Administration Act of 1979, 50 U.S.C. App. 2401-2420 (1979) (EAA), or section 6 of the EAA to the extent that such controls promote the nonproliferation or antiterrorism policies of the United States; or
(2) With respect to which acts are prohibited by 18 U.S.C. chapter 37.
§ 582.306
Interest.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
§ 582.307
Licenses; general and specific.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
(c) The term
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.

# Note 1 to § 582.307:
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
§ 582.308
OFAC.
The term
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
§ 582.309
Person.
The term
person
means an individual or entity.
§ 582.310
Property; property interest.
The terms
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of
any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
§ 582.311
Transfer.
The term
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
§ 582.312
United States.
The term
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
§ 582.313
United States person; U.S. person.
The term
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
§ 582.314
U.S. financial institution.
The term
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or other extensions of credit, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
§ 582.401
[Reserved]
§ 582.402
Effect of amendment.
Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.
§ 582.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property
(including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 582.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 582.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.
§ 582.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(a) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201; or
(b) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
§ 582.405
Setoffs prohibited.
A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 582.201 if effected after the effective date.
§ 582.406
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.
Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
§ 582.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Nicaragua sanctions page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
§ 582.502
[Reserved]
§ 582.503
Exclusion from licenses.
OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.
§ 582.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no
transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.

# Note 1 to § 582.504:
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 582.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
§ 582.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.
(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
§ 582.506
Provision of certain legal services.
(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201 or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13851 of November 27, 2018, is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 582.507, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. Federal, State, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201 or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13851 of November 27, 2018, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services.
See
§ 582.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 582.201 or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13851 of November 27,
2018 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 582.506:
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available. For more information, see OFAC's
Guidance on the Release of Limited Amounts of Blocked Funds for Payment of Legal Fees and Costs Incurred in Challenging the Blocking of U.S. Persons in Administrative or Civil Proceedings,
which is available on OFAC's website at:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
§ 582.507
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
(a)
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 582.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201 or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13851, of November 27, 2018 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 582.506(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order has an interest.
(b)
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[84 FR 46441, Sept. 4, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 103647, Dec. 19, 2024]
§ 582.508
Emergency medical services.
The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are otherwise prohibited by this part or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13851 of November 27, 2018 are authorized.
§ 582.509
Official Business of the United States Government.
All transactions that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[85 FR 43437, July 17, 2020]
§ 582.510
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank,
the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(e) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
[87 FR 78479, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 582.511
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.

# Note 1 to § 582.511.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78499, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 582.512
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.
(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1)
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2)
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3)
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).

# Note 1 to § 582.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78500, Dec. 21, 2022]

# Subpart F—Reports
§ 582.601
Records and reports.
For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation
§ 582.701
Penalties and Findings of Violation.
(a) The penalties available under section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) (IEEPA), as adjusted annually pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note) or, in the case of criminal violations, as adjusted pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571, are applicable to violations of the provisions of this part.
(b) OFAC has the authority, pursuant to IEEPA, to issue Pre-Penalty Notices, Penalty Notices, and Findings of Violation; impose monetary penalties; engage in settlement discussions and enter into settlements; refer matters to the United States Department of Justice for administrative collection; and, in appropriate circumstances, refer matters to appropriate law enforcement agencies for criminal investigation and/or prosecution. For more information, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, which provides a general framework for the enforcement of all economic sanctions programs administered by OFAC, including enforcement-related definitions, types of responses to apparent violations, general factors affecting administrative actions, civil penalties for failure to comply with a requirement to furnish information or keep records, and other general civil penalties information.

# Subpart H—Procedures
§ 582.801
Procedures.
For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
§ 582.802
Delegation of certain authorities by the Secretary of the Treasury.
Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 13851 of November 27, 2018, and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared therein, and any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Memorandum of May 24, 2019: Delegation of Functions and Authorities under the Nicaragua Human Rights and Anticorruption Act of 2018, May 24, 2019 (published June 13, 2019), may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.
[85 FR 43437, July 17, 2020]

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
§ 582.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
Pt. 582, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 582—Executive Order 13851

# Executive Order 13851 of November 27, 2018

# Blocking Property of Certain Persons Contributing to the Situation in Nicaragua
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) (NEA), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, find that the situation in Nicaragua, including the violent response by the Government of Nicaragua to the protests that began on April 18, 2018, and the Ortega regime's systematic dismantling and undermining of democratic institutions and the rule of law, its use of indiscriminate violence and repressive tactics against civilians, as well as its corruption leading to the destabilization of Nicaragua's economy, constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States, and I hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat. I hereby determine and order:
Section 1.
(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in: Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged or attempted to engage in, any of the following:
(A) Serious human rights abuse in Nicaragua;
(B) actions or policies that undermine democratic processes or institutions in Nicaragua;
(C) actions or policies that threaten the peace, security, or stability of Nicaragua;
(D) any transaction or series of transactions involving deceptive practices or corruption by, on behalf of, or otherwise related to the Government of Nicaragua or a current or former official of the Government of Nicaragua, such as the misappropriation of public assets or expropriation of private assets for personal gain or political purposes, corruption related to government contracts, or bribery;
(ii) to be a leader or official of an entity that has, or whose members have, engaged in any activity described in subsection (a)(i) of this section or of an entity whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order;
(iii) to be an official of the Government of Nicaragua or to have served as an official of the Government of Nicaragua at any time on or after January 10, 2007;
(iv) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of:
(A) Any activities described in subsection (a)(i) of this section; or
(B) any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or
(v) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.
(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order.
Sec. 2.
The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in section 1 of this order would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and the entry of such persons into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended, except where the Secretary of State determines that the person's entry is in the national interest of the United States. Such persons shall be treated as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions).
Sec. 3.
I hereby determine that the making of donations of the type of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order.
Sec. 4.
The prohibitions in section 1 of this order include:
(a) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and
(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.
Sec. 5.
(a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 6.
For the purposes of this order:
(a) The term “person” means an individual or entity;
(b) the term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;
(c) the term “United States person” means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States; and
(d) the term “Government of Nicaragua” means the Government of Nicaragua, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the Central Bank of Nicaragua, and any person owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of Nicaragua.
Sec. 7.
For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.
Sec. 8.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including promulgating rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to implement this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All agencies of the United States Government shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.
Sec. 9.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit the recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 10.
(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) The authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
Donald J. Trump
,
THE WHITE HOUSE,
November 27, 2018.
Pt. 583

# PART 583—GLOBAL MAGNITSKY SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
Sec.
583.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
583.102
Records and reports.
583.103
Procedures.
583.104
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
583.105
[Reserved]
583.106
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
583.201
Prohibited transactions.
583.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
583.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
583.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.
583.205
Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.
583.206
Exempt transactions.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
583.300
Applicability of definitions.
583.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
583.302
Effective date.
583.303
Entity.
583.304
Financial, material, or technological support.
583.305
Foreign person.
583.306
[Reserved]
583.307
Interest.
583.308
Licenses; general and specific.
583.309
OFAC.
583.310
Person.
583.311
Property; property interest.
583.312
Transfer.
583.313
United States.
583.314
United States person; U.S. person.
583.315
U.S. financial institution.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
583.401
Reference to amended sections.
583.402
Effect of amendment.
583.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
583.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
583.405
Provision and receipt of services.
583.406
Offshore transactions involving blocked property.
583.407
Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.
583.408
Charitable contributions.
583.409
Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.
583.410
Setoffs prohibited.
583.411
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.
583.412
Entities of which one or more blocked persons is a member, leader, official, senior executive officer, or otherwise exercises control.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
583.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
583.502
Effect of license or other authorization.
583.503
Exclusion from licenses.
583.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
583.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.
583.506
Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.
583.507
Provision of certain legal services.
583.508
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
583.509
Emergency medical services.
583.510
Official business of the United States government.
583.511
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
583.512
Certain transactions in support of nongovernmental organizations' activities.
583.513
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.
Subpart F [Reserved]

# Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation
583.701
Penalties.
583.702
Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.
583.703
Penalty imposition.
583.704
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.
583.705
Findings of Violation.

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 22 U.S.C. 10101-10103; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 116-145, 134 Stat. 651, as amended (22 U.S.C. 6901 note); Pub. L. 117-78, 135 Stat. 1531 (22 U.S.C. 6901 note); E.O. 13818, 82 FR 60839, 3 CFR, 2017 Comp., p. 399.

# Source:
89 FR 17731, Mar. 12, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
§ 583.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
§ 583.102
Records and reports.
For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.
§ 583.103
Procedures.
For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
§ 583.104
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
§ 583.105
[Reserved]
§ 583.106
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.
Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to E.O. 13818, any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared therein, or Presidential Memorandum of December 7, 2023: Delegation of Certain Functions and Authorities Under the Uyghur Human Rights Policy Act of 2020 and Public Law 117-78, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority to so act.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
§ 583.201
Prohibited transactions.
(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(1)
Executive Order (E.O.) 13818 Annex.
The persons listed in the Annex to E.O. 13818 of December 20, 2017.
(2)
E.O. 13818.
Any foreign person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Attorney General:
(i) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged in, serious human rights abuse;
(ii) To be a current or former government official, or a person acting for or on behalf of such an official, who is responsible for or complicit in, or has directly or indirectly engaged in:
(A) Corruption, including the misappropriation of state assets, the expropriation of private assets for personal gain, corruption related to government contracts or the extraction of natural resources, or bribery; or
(B) The transfer or the facilitation of the transfer of the proceeds of corruption;
(iii) To be or have been a leader or official of:
(A) An entity, including any government entity, that has engaged in, or whose members have engaged in, any of the activities described in paragraph (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii)(A), or (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section relating to the leader's or official's tenure; or
(B) An entity whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order as a result of activities related to the leader's or official's tenure;
(iv) To have attempted to engage in any of the activities described in paragraph (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii)(A), or (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section; and
(v) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of:
(A) Any activity described in paragraph (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii)(A), or (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section that is conducted by a foreign person;
(B) Any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; or
(C) Any entity, including any government entity, that has engaged in, or whose members have engaged in, any of the activities described in paragraph (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii)(A), or (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, where the activity is conducted by a foreign person;
(vi) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; or
(vii) To have attempted to engage in any of the activities described in paragraph (a)(2)(v) or (a)(2)(vi) of this section.
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this part, any dealing in securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, rulings, instructions, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
(e) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any Executive order issued after December 20, 2017 pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13818 of December 20, 2017 are prohibited pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 583.201:
The names of persons designated or identified as blocked pursuant to E.O. 13818, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared therein, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's
Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13818: “[GLOMAG]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13818: using the identifier formulation “[GLOMAG-E.O. [E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]]”. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 583.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.

# Note 2 to § 583.201:
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
), in section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702) authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13818: “[BPI-GLOMAG]”; for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13818: using the identifier formulation “[BPI-GLOMAG-E.O. [E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”

# Note 3 to § 582.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.

# Note 4 to § 582.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section.
[89 FR 17731, Mar. 12, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 75965, Sept. 17, 2024]
§ 583.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 583.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 583.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, license, or other authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 583.201.
§ 583.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 583.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For the purposes of this section, the term
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For the purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For the purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 583.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 583.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds blocked pursuant to § 583.201 may not be held, invested, or
reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.
§ 583.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.
(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 583.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 583.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.
§ 583.205
Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.
(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
§ 583.206
Exempt transactions.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any transactions that are exempt pursuant to section 203(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)).

# Subpart C—General Definitions
§ 583.300
Applicability of definitions.
The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.
§ 583.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
The terms
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 583.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.

# Note 1 to § 583.301:
See
§ 583.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201.
§ 583.302
Effective date.
(a) The term
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(1) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201(a)(1), 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on December 21, 2017; and
(2) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 583.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section,
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.
§ 583.303
Entity.
The term
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
§ 583.304
Financial, material, or technological support.
The term
financial, material, or technological support
means any property,
tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
§ 583.305
Foreign person.
The term
foreign person
means any citizen or national of a foreign state (including any such individual who is also a citizen or national of the United States), or any entity not organized solely under the laws of the United States or existing solely in the United States, but does not include a foreign state.
§ 583.306
[Reserved]
§ 583.307
Interest.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
interest,
when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
§ 583.308
Licenses; general and specific.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
https://ofac.treasury.gov.
(c) The term
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
https://ofac.treasury.gov.

# Note 1 to § 583.308:
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
§ 583.309
OFAC.
The term
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
§ 583.310
Person.
The term
person
means an individual or entity.
§ 583.311
Property; property interest.
The terms
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
§ 583.312
Transfer.
The term
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without
limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
§ 583.313
United States.
The term
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
§ 583.314
United States person; U.S. person.
The term
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
§ 583.315
U.S. financial institution.
The term
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
§ 583.401
Reference to amended sections.
(a) Reference to any section in this part is a reference to the same as currently amended, unless the reference includes a specific date.
See
44 U.S.C. 1510.
(b) Reference to any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part is a reference to the same as currently amended unless otherwise so specified.
§ 583.402
Effect of amendment.
Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any regulation, ruling, insruction, order, directive, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.
§ 583.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property
blocked pursuant to § 583.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 583.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.
§ 583.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
(a) Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(1) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201; or
(2) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
(b) For example, a license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201, also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks, provided that such other persons are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201.
§ 583.405
Provision and receipt of services.
(a) The prohibitions contained in § 583.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201; or
(2) With respect to property interests of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201.
(b) The prohibitions on transactions contained in § 583.201 apply to services received in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, where the service is performed by, or at the direction of, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201.
(c) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201, or negotiate with or enter into contracts signed by a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201.

# Note 1 to § 583.405:
See
§§ 583.507 and 583.509 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
§ 583.406
Offshore transactions involving blocked property.
The prohibitions in § 583.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property, as defined in § 583.301, apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States.
§ 583.407
Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.
Pursuant to § 583.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 583.407:
See also
§ 583.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
§ 583.408
Charitable contributions.
Unless specifically authorized by OFAC pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201. For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201 if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from such a person.
§ 583.409
Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.
The prohibition in § 583.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201.
§ 583.410
Setoffs prohibited.
A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. financial institution or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 583.201 if effected after the effective date.
§ 583.411
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.
Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).
§ 583.412
Entities of which one or more blocked persons is a member, leader, official, senior executive officer, or otherwise exercises control.
(a) The property and interests in property of an entity, including any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of a governmental entity, are not blocked solely because one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201 is a member, leader, official, senior executive officer, or otherwise exercises control.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# ):
See
§ 583.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201.
(b) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized or exempt pursuant to this part, engage in the following transactions with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201: enter into contracts that are signed by a blocked person, enter into negotiations with a blocked person, or process transactions, directly or indirectly, on behalf of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201. However, U.S. persons are not prohibited from engaging in a routine interaction with an agency in which a blocked person is an official, but which does not involve the blocked person directly or indirectly.

# Note 2 to § 583.412:
OFAC encourages U.S. persons to be cautious in engaging in transactions with any entity of which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201 is a member, leader, official, senior executive officer, or otherwise exercises control to ensure that U.S. persons are not engaged in transactions, directly or indirectly, with a blocked person,
except as authorized or exempt pursuant to this part.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
§ 583.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Global Magnitsky sanctions page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
§ 583.502
Effect of license or other authorization.
(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license authorizing any transaction prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.
§ 583.503
Exclusion from licenses.
OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.
§ 583.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201 has any
interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.

# Note 1 to § 583.504:
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 583.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
§ 583.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.
(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
§ 583.506
Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.
Subject to the requirements of § 583.203, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 583.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (e.g., through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201.
§ 583.507
Provision of certain legal services.
(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201, is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 583.508, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons
whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services.
See
§ 583.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 583.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 583.507:
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.
§ 583.508
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
(a)
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 583.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 583.507(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b)
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[89 FR 17731, Mar. 12, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 103647, Dec. 19, 2024]
§ 583.509
Emergency medical services.
The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.
§ 583.510
Official business of the United States government.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
§ 583.511
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(e) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
§ 583.512
Certain transactions in support of nongovernmental organizations' activities.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.

# Note 1 to § 583.512:
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
§ 583.513
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.
(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1)
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2)
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3)
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).

# Note 1 to § 583.513:
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
Subpart F [Reserved]

# Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation
§ 583.701
Penalties.
(a) Section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (IEEPA) is applicable to violations of the provisions of any regulation in this part, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, license, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) IEEPA provides for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any regulation in this part, ruling, instruction, order, directive, license, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b)(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any
false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[89 FR 17731, Mar. 12, 2024, as amended at 90 FR 3692, Jan. 15, 2025]
§ 583.702
Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.
(a)
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b)
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2)
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i)
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii)
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3)
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d)
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e)
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
§ 583.703
Penalty imposition.
If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines
that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
§ 583.704
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.
In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a Federal district court.
§ 583.705
Findings of Violation.
(a)
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
);
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b)
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2)
Deadline for response; default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
(i)
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii)
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3)
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-
stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4)
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations in this part did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c)
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
(2)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# )(2):
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d)
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Pt. 584

# PART 584—MAGNITSKY ACT SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
Sec.
584.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
584.201
Prohibited transactions involving blocked property.
584.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
584.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
584.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked physical property; liquidation of blocked property.
584.205
Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.
584.206
Exempt transactions.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
584.300
Applicability of definitions.
584.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
584.302
Effective date.
584.303
Entity.
584.304
Information or informational materials.
584.305
Interest.
584.306
Licenses; general and specific.
584.307
OFAC.
584.308
Participated in efforts to conceal the legal liability for the detention, abuse, or death of Sergei Magnitsky.
584.309
Person.
584.310
Property; property interest.
584.311
Magnitsky Act.
584.312
Transfer.
584.313
United States.
584.314
United States person; U.S. person.
584.315
U.S. financial institution.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
584.401
Reference to amended sections.
584.402
Effect of amendment.
584.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
584.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
584.405
Provision of services.
584.406
Offshore transactions involving blocked property.
584.407
Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.
584.408
Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.
584.409
Setoffs prohibited.
584.410
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
584.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
584.502
Effect of license or other authorization.
584.503
Exclusion from licenses.
584.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
584.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.
584.506
Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.
584.507
Provision of certain legal services.
584.508
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
584.509
Emergency medical services.
584.510
Official business of the United States Government.
584.511
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
584.512
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
584.513
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

# Subpart F—Reports
584.601
Records and reports.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Finding of Violation
584.701
Penalties.
584.702
Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.
584.703
Penalty imposition.
584.704
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.
584.705
Finding of Violation.

# Subpart H—Procedures
584.801
Procedures.
584.802
Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
584.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 112-208, Title IV, 126 Stat. 1502 (22 U.S.C. 5811 note).

# Source:
82 FR 60508, Dec. 21, 2017, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
§ 584.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
§ 584.201
Prohibited transactions involving blocked property.
(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any United States person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in: Any person who the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, determines:
(1) Is responsible for the detention, abuse, or death of Sergei Magnitsky, participated in efforts to conceal the legal liability for the detention, abuse, or death of Sergei Magnitsky, financially benefitted from the detention, abuse, or death of Sergei Magnitsky, or was involved in the criminal conspiracy uncovered by Sergei Magnitsky;
(2) Is responsible for extrajudicial killings, torture, or other gross violations of internationally recognized human rights committed against individuals seeking:
(i) To expose illegal activity carried out by officials of the Government of the Russian Federation; or
(ii) To obtain, exercise, defend, or promote internationally recognized human rights and freedoms, such as the freedoms of religion, expression, association, and assembly, and the rights to a fair trial and democratic elections, in Russia; or
(3) Acted as an agent of or on behalf of a person in a matter relating to an activity described in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# ):
The names of persons who meet the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section and are designated pursuant to the Magnitsky Act, whose property and interests in property are therefore blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a), are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the identifier “MAGNIT.” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 584.410 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a).

# Note 2 to paragraph (
a

# ):
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of the property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this paragraph (a) are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-MAGNIT].”

# Note 3 to paragraph (
a

# ):
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.

# Note 4 to paragraph (
a

# ):
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a).
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, except for donations by United States persons of articles, such as food, clothing, and medicine, intended to be used to relieve human suffering; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this section, any dealing in any securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any
time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section apply except to the extent transactions are authorized by regulations, orders, directives, rulings, instructions, licenses, or otherwise, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
[82 FR 60508, Dec. 21, 2017, as amended at 89 FR 75965, Sept. 17, 2024]
§ 584.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a), is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or property interest.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a), unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(e) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property and interests in property blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a).
§ 584.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 584.201(a) shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally-insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 584.201(a) may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 584.201(a) may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as chattels or real estate, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides immediate financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a), nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.
§ 584.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked physical property; liquidation of blocked property.
(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of physical property blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a) shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a) may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.
§ 584.205
Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.
(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
§ 584.206
Exempt transactions.
(a)
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not
apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
(b)
Information or informational materials.
(1) The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to the importation from any country and the exportation to any country of any information or informational materials, as defined in § 584.304, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission.
(2) This section does not exempt from regulation transactions related to information or informational materials not fully created and in existence at the date of the transactions, or to the substantive or artistic alteration or enhancement of information or informational materials, or to the provision of marketing and business consulting services. Such prohibited transactions include payment of advances for information or informational materials not yet created and completed (with the exception of prepaid subscriptions for widely circulated magazines and other periodical publications); provision of services to market, produce or co-produce, create, or assist in the creation of information or informational materials; and payment of royalties with respect to income received for enhancements or alterations made by U.S. persons to such information or informational materials.
(3) This section does not exempt transactions incident to the exportation of software subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730-774, or to the exportation of goods (including software) or technology for use in the transmission of any data, or to the provision, sale, or leasing of capacity on telecommunications transmission facilities (such as satellite or terrestrial network connectivity) for use in the transmission of any data. The exportation of such items or services and the provision, sale, or leasing of such capacity or facilities to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a) are prohibited.
(c)
Travel.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation or exportation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.
(d)
Humanitarian donations.
The prohibitions of this part do not apply to donations by United States persons of articles, such as food, clothing, and medicine, intended to be used to relieve human suffering.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
§ 584.300
Applicability of definitions.
The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.
§ 584.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
The terms
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 584.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a), or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.

# Note to § 584.301:
See § 584.410 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a).
§ 584.302
Effective date.
The term
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and, with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a), is the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
§ 584.303
Entity.
The term
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
§ 584.304
Information or informational materials.
(a) The term
information or informational materials
includes publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# ):
To be considered information or informational materials, artworks must be classified under heading 9701, 9702, or 9703 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
(b) The term
information or informational materials,
with respect to exports, does not include items:
(1) That were, as of April 30, 1994, or that thereafter become, controlled for export pursuant to section 5 of the Export Administration Act of 1979, 50 U.S.C. App. 2401-2420 (1979) (EAA), or section 6 of the EAA to the extent that such controls promote the nonproliferation or antiterrorism policies of the United States; or
(2) With respect to which acts are prohibited by 18 U.S.C. chapter 37.
§ 584.305
Interest.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
interest,
when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
§ 584.306
Licenses; general and specific.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
(c) The term
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.

# Note to § 584.306:
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
§ 584.307
OFAC.
The term
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
§ 584.308
Participated in efforts to conceal the legal liability for the detention, abuse, or death of Sergei Magnitsky.
The term
participated in efforts to conceal the legal liability for the detention, abuse, or death of Sergei Magnitsky
includes direct or indirect, knowing or unknowing, involvement in, among others:
(a) Actions with the intent or effect of obstructing the release of evidence regarding Sergei Magnitsky's treatment during his detention;
(b) Posthumous legal proceedings against Sergei Magnitsky; or
(c) The making of any false or misleading reports or accounts by officials of the Russian Federation concerning Sergei Magnitsky's detention, abuse, or death, or the fraudulent tax scheme he discovered, including official statements or findings regarding Sergei Magnitsky's treatment during his detention that contradict the July 6, 2011, findings of the independent investigation by the Presidential Council on the Development of Civil Society and Human Rights, or the December 28, 2009, report of the Public Oversight Commission for the City of Moscow for the Control of the Observance of Human Rights in Places of Forced Detention.
§ 584.309
Person.
The term
person
means an individual or entity.
§ 584.310
Property; property interest.
The terms
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of
title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
§ 584.311
Magnitsky Act.
The term
Magnitsky Act
means the Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act of 2012, Public Law 112-208, title IV, 126 Stat. 1502 (2012).
§ 584.312
Transfer.
The term
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
§ 584.313
United States.
The term
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
§ 584.314
United States person; U.S. person.
The term
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
§ 584.315
U.S. financial institution.
The term
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or other extensions of credit, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
§ 584.401
Reference to amended sections.
Except as otherwise specified, reference to any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or to any regulation, ruling, order, instruction, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part refers to the same as currently amended.
§ 584.402
Effect of amendment.
Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.
§ 584.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a), such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a), unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a), the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a), such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.
§ 584.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
(a) Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(1) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a); or
(2) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
(b)
Example.
A license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a), also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks, provided that such other persons are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a).
§ 584.405
Provision of services.
(a) The prohibitions on transactions contained in § 584.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, including by a foreign branch of an entity located in the United States:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a); or
(2) With respect to property interests of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a).
(b)
Example.
U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a).

# Note to § 584.405:
See §§ 584.507 and 584.509 on licensing policy with regard to the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
§ 584.406
Offshore transactions involving blocked property.
The prohibitions in § 584.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States with respect to property held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a).
§ 584.407
Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.
Pursuant to § 584.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.

# Note to § 584.407:
See also
§ 584.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
§ 584.408
Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.
The prohibition in § 584.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a).
§ 584.409
Setoffs prohibited.
A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 584.201 if effected after the effective date.
§ 584.410
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.
Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).
[82 FR 60508, Dec. 21, 2017, as amended at 87 FR 78479, Dec. 21, 2022]

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
§ 584.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Magnitsky Sanctions page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
§ 584.502
Effect of license or other authorization.
(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction otherwise prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the
transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. Government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. Government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.
§ 584.503
Exclusion from licenses.
OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.
§ 584.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a) has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.

# Note to § 584.504:
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 584.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
§ 584.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.
(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
§ 584.506
Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.
Subject to the requirements of § 584.203, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 584.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (e.g., through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a).
§ 584.507
Provision of certain legal services.
(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a) or any Executive orders or further Presidential action relating to the Magnitsky Act is authorized, provided that receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be specifically licensed, authorized pursuant to § 584.508, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States, or otherwise authorized pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. Federal, State, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. Federal, State, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. Federal, State, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# ):
Consistent with § 584.404, U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by this paragraph. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by this paragraph do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a) or any Executive orders or further Presidential action relating to the Magnitsky Act, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a) or any Executive orders or further Presidential action relating to the Magnitsky Act is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.

# Note to § 584.507:
U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds necessary for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available. For more information, see OFAC's
Guidance on the Release of Limited Amounts of Blocked Funds for Payment of Legal Fees and Costs Incurred in Challenging the Blocking of U.S. Persons in Administrative or Civil Proceedings,
which is available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
§ 584.508
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
(a) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 584.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a) or any Executive orders or further Presidential action relating to the Magnitsky Act is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(1) A source within the United States;
(2) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(3) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 584.507(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# ):
This paragraph authorizes the blocked person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 584.507(a) are to be provided to make payments for authorized legal services using funds originating outside the United States that were not previously blocked. Nothing in this paragraph authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a), any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order has an interest.
(b)
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.

# Note to § 584.508:
U.S. persons who receive payments in connection with legal services authorized pursuant to § 584.507(a) do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. Additionally, U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 584.507(a).
[82 FR 60508, Dec. 21, 2017, as amended at 89 FR 103647, Dec. 19, 2024]
§ 584.509
Emergency medical services.
The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are otherwise prohibited by this part or any Executive orders or further Presidential action relating to the Magnitsky Act are authorized.
§ 584.510
Official business of the United States Government.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[87 FR 78479, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 584.511
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(e) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
[87 FR 78479, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 584.512
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.

# Note 1 to § 584.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78501, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 584.513
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.
(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1)
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2)
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3)
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).

# Note 1 to § 584.513.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78501, Dec. 21, 2022]

# Subpart F—Reports
§ 584.601
Records and reports.
For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Finding of Violation
§ 584.701
Penalties.
(a) Section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (IEEPA) is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) IEEPA provides for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, or willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b)
Adjustments to penalty amounts.
(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18,
United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[82 FR 60508, Dec. 21, 2017, as amended at 83 FR 11880, Mar. 19, 2018; 84 FR 27718, June 14, 2019; 85 FR 19888, Apr. 9, 2020; 86 FR 14538, Mar. 17, 2021; 87 FR 7373, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2234, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2143, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3693, Jan. 15, 2025]
§ 584.702
Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.
(a)
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (IEEPA) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b)
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2)
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in this paragraph (b). The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i)
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii)
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3)
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and must include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d)
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e)
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
§ 584.703
Penalty imposition.
If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines
that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
§ 584.704
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.
In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a Federal district court.
§ 584.705
Finding of Violation.
(a)
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act;
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and,
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b)
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2)
Deadline for response; Default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in this paragraph (b). The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
(i)
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii)
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3)
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and must include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4)
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c)(1)
Determination.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
(2)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.

# Note to paragraph (
c

# )(2):
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d)
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.

# Subpart H—Procedures
§ 584.801
Procedures.
For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
§ 584.802
Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.
Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to the Magnitsky Act; Presidential Memorandum of April 5, 2013: Delegation of Functions Under Section 404 and 406 of Public Law 112-208 (78 FR 22761, April 16, 2013); or any Executive orders or further Presidential action relating to the Magnitsky Act, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
§ 584.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures,
see
§ 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
Pt. 585

# PART 585—HONG KONG-RELATED SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
Sec.
585.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
585.201
Prohibited transactions.
585.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
585.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
585.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.
585.205
Exempt transactions.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
585.300
Applicability of definitions.
585.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
585.302
Effective date.
585.303
Entity.
585.304
Financial, material, or technological support.
585.305
[Reserved]
585.306
Interest.
585.307
Licenses; general and specific.
585.308
OFAC.
585.309
Person.
585.310
Property; property interest.
585.311
Transfer.
585.312
United States.
585.313
United States person; U.S. person.
585.314
U.S. financial institution.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
585.401
[Reserved]
585.402
Effect of amendment.
585.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
585.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
585.405
Setoffs prohibited.
585.406
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
585.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
585.502
[Reserved]
585.503
Exclusion from licenses.
585.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
585.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.
585.506
Provision of certain legal services.
585.507
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
585.508
Emergency medical services.
585.509
Official business of the United States Government.
585.510
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
585.511
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
585.512
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

# Subpart F—Reports
585.601
Records and reports.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation
585.701
Penalties and Findings of Violation.

# Subpart H—Procedures
585.801
Procedures.
585.802
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
585.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
Appendix A to Part 585—Executive Order 13936 of July 14, 2020

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890 (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13936, 85 FR 43413, 3 CFR, 2020 Comp., p. 399.

# Source:
At 86 FR 3794, Jan. 15, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 585.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

# Note 1 to § 585.101.
This part has been published in abbreviated form for the purpose of providing immediate guidance to the public. OFAC intends to supplement this part with a more comprehensive set of regulations, which may include additional interpretive
and definitional guidance, general licenses, and statements of licensing policy.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
§ 585.201
Prohibited transactions.
(a) All transactions prohibited pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 13936 of July 14, 2020 are prohibited pursuant to this part.
(b) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13936 are prohibited pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 585.201.
The names of persons designated or identified as blocked pursuant to E.O. 13936, or listed in, designated, or identified as blocked pursuant to any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13936, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifier formulation: “[HK-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 585.406 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.

# Note 2 to § 585.201.
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifier formulation: for E.O. 13936 and any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13936: “[BPI-HK-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]]”.

# Note 3 to § 585.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.

# Note 4 to § 585.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
[86 FR 3794, Jan. 15, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 75965, Sept. 17, 2024]
§ 585.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 585.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 585.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for
the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 585.201.
§ 585.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 585.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 585.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 585.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.
§ 585.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.
(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 585.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 585.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.
§ 585.205
Exempt transactions.
(a)
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
(b)
Official business.
The prohibitions contained in § 585.201(a) do not apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.

# Note 1 to paragraph (b).
See
§ 585.509 for a general license authorizing transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government not otherwise exempt.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
§ 585.300
Applicability of definitions.
The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.
§ 585.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
The terms
blocked account
and
blocked property
shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 585.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.

# Note 1 to § 585.301.
See
§ 585.406 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201.
§ 585.302
Effective date.
(a) The term
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section, c
onstructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.
§ 585.303
Entity.
The term
entity
means a government or instrumentality of such government, partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization, including an international organization.
§ 585.304
Financial, material, or technological support.
The term
financial, material, or technological support
means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
§ 585.305
[Reserved]
§ 585.306
Interest.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
interest,
when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
§ 585.307
Licenses; general and specific.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
(c) The term
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.

# Note 1 to § 585.307.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
§ 585.308
OFAC.
The term
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
§ 585.309
Person.
The term
person
means an individual or entity.
§ 585.310
Property; property interest.
The terms
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
§ 585.311
Transfer.
The term
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without
limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
§ 585.312
United States.
The term
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
§ 585.313
United States person; U.S. person.
The term
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
§ 585.314
U.S. financial institution.
The term
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or other extensions of credit, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
§ 585.401
[Reserved]
§ 585.402
Effect of amendment.
Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.
§ 585.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 585.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 585.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and
interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.
§ 585.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(a) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201; or
(b) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
§ 585.405
Setoffs prohibited.
A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 585.201 if effected after the effective date.
§ 585.406
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.
Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
§ 585.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
For provisions relating to licensing procedures,
see
part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Hong Kong-Related Sanctions page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
§ 585.502
[Reserved]
§ 585.503
Exclusion from licenses.
OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.
§ 585.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.

# Note 1 to § 585.504.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 585.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
§ 585.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.
(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in
payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
§ 585.506
Provision of certain legal services.
(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 585.507, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services.
See
§ 585.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 585.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 585.506.
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.
§ 585.507
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
(a)
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 585.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201 is
authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 585.506(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b)
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[86 FR 3794, Jan. 15, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 103647, Dec. 19, 2024]
§ 585.508
Emergency medical services.
The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.
§ 585.509
Official business of the United States Government.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
§ 585.510
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(e) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
[87 FR 78480, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 585.511
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or
flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.

# Note 1 to § 585.511.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78502, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 585.512
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.
(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1)
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2)
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3)
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).

# Note 1 to § 585.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78502, Dec. 21, 2022]

# Subpart F—Reports
§ 585.601
Records and reports.
For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation
§ 585.701
Penalties and Findings of Violation.
(a) The penalties available under section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) (IEEPA), as adjusted annually pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note) or, in the case of criminal violations, as adjusted pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571, are applicable to violations of the provisions of this part.
(b) OFAC has the authority, pursuant to IEEPA, to issue Pre-Penalty Notices, Penalty Notices, and Findings of Violation; impose monetary penalties; engage in settlement discussions and enter into settlements; refer matters to the United States Department of Justice for administrative collection; and, in appropriate circumstances, refer matters to appropriate law enforcement agencies for criminal investigation and/or prosecution. For more information, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, which provides a general framework for the enforcement of all economic sanctions programs administered by OFAC, including enforcement-related definitions, types of responses to apparent violations, general factors affecting administrative actions, civil penalties for failure to comply with a requirement to furnish information or keep records, and other general civil penalties information.

# Subpart H—Procedures
§ 585.801
Procedures.
For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
§ 585.802
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.
Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 13936, and any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared therein, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
§ 585.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
Pt. 585, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 585—Executive Order 13936 of July 14, 2020

# Executive Order 13936 of July 14, 2020

# The President's Executive Order on Hong Kong Normalization
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992 (Pub. L. 102-393), the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act of 2019 (Pub. L. 116-76), the Hong Kong Autonomy Act of 2020, signed into law July 14, 2020, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) (IEEPA), the National
Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) (NEA), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, determine, pursuant to section 202 of the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992, that the Special Administrative Region of Hong Kong (Hong Kong) is no longer sufficiently autonomous to justify differential treatment in relation to the People's Republic of China (PRC or China) under the particular United States laws and provisions thereof set out in this order. In late May 2020, the National People's Congress of China announced its intention to unilaterally and arbitrarily impose national security legislation on Hong Kong. This announcement was merely China's latest salvo in a series of actions that have increasingly denied autonomy and freedoms that China promised to the people of Hong Kong under the 1984 Joint Declaration of the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the Question of Hong Kong (Joint Declaration). As a result, on May 27, 2020, the Secretary of State announced that the PRC had fundamentally undermined Hong Kong's autonomy and certified and reported to the Congress, pursuant to sections 205 and 301 of the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992, as amended, respectively, that Hong Kong no longer warrants treatment under United States law in the same manner as United States laws were applied to Hong Kong before July 1, 1997. On May 29, 2020, I directed the heads of executive departments and agencies (agencies) to begin the process of eliminating policy exemptions under United States law that give Hong Kong differential treatment in relation to China.
China has since followed through on its threat to impose national security legislation on Hong Kong. Under this law, the people of Hong Kong may face life in prison for what China considers to be acts of secession or subversion of state power—which may include acts like last year's widespread anti-government protests. The right to trial by jury may be suspended. Proceedings may be conducted in secret. China has given itself broad power to initiate and control the prosecutions of the people of Hong Kong through the new Office for Safeguarding National Security. At the same time, the law allows foreigners to be expelled if China merely suspects them of violating the law, potentially making it harder for journalists, human rights organizations, and other outside groups to hold the PRC accountable for its treatment of the people of Hong Kong.
I therefore determine that the situation with respect to Hong Kong, including recent actions taken by the PRC to fundamentally undermine Hong Kong's autonomy, constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat, which has its source in substantial part outside the United States, to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. I hereby declare a national emergency with respect to that threat.
In light of the foregoing, I hereby determine and order:
Section 1.
It shall be the policy of the United States to suspend or eliminate different and preferential treatment for Hong Kong to the extent permitted by law and in the national security, foreign policy, and economic interest of the United States.
Sec. 2.
Pursuant to section 202 of the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992 (22 U.S.C. 5722), I hereby suspend the application of section 201(a) of the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992, as amended (22 U.S.C. 5721(a)), to the following statutes:
(a) section 103 of the Immigration Act of 1990 (8 U.S.C. 1152 note);
(b) sections 203(c), 212(l), and 221(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, as amended (8 U.S.C. 1153(c), 1182(l), and 1201(c), respectively);
(c) the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751
et seq.
);
(d) section 721(m) of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4565(m));
(e) the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (50 U.S.C. 4801
et seq.
); and
(f) section 1304 of title 19, United States Code.
Sec. 3.
Within 15 days of the date of this order, the heads of agencies shall commence all appropriate actions to further the purposes of this order, consistent with applicable law, including, to:
(a) Amend any regulations implementing those provisions specified in section 2 of this order, and, consistent with applicable law and executive orders, under IEEPA, which provide different treatment for Hong Kong as compared to China;
(b) amend the regulation at 8 CFR 212.4(i) to eliminate the preference for Hong Kong passport holders as compared to PRC passport holders;
(c) revoke license exceptions for exports to Hong Kong, reexports to Hong Kong, and transfers (in-country) within Hong Kong of items subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730-774, that provide differential treatment compared to those license exceptions applicable to exports to China, reexports to China, and transfers (in-country) within China;
(d) consistent with section 902(b)(2) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991 (Pub. L. 101-246), terminate the export licensing suspensions under section 902(a)(3) of such Act insofar as such
suspensions apply to exports of defense articles to Hong Kong persons who are physically located outside of Hong Kong and the PRC and who were authorized to receive defense articles prior to the date of this order;
(e) give notice of intent to suspend the Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Hong Kong for the Surrender of Fugitive Offenders (TIAS 98-121);
(f) give notice of intent to terminate the Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Hong Kong for the Transfer of Sentenced Persons (TIAS 99-418);
(g) take steps to end the provision of training to members of the Hong Kong Police Force or other Hong Kong security services at the Department of State's International Law Enforcement Academies;
(h) suspend continued cooperation undertaken consistent with the now-expired Protocol Between the U.S. Geological Survey of the Department of the Interior of the United States of America and Institute of Space and Earth Information Science of the Chinese University of Hong Kong Concerning Scientific and Technical Cooperation in Earth Sciences (TIAS 09-1109);
(i) take steps to terminate the Fulbright exchange program with regard to China and Hong Kong with respect to future exchanges for participants traveling both from and to China or Hong Kong;
(j) give notice of intent to terminate the agreement for the reciprocal exemption with respect to taxes on income from the international operation of ships effected by the Exchange of Notes Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Hong Kong (TIAS 11892);
(k) reallocate admissions within the refugee ceiling set by the annual Presidential Determination to residents of Hong Kong based on humanitarian concerns, to the extent feasible and consistent with applicable law; and
(l) propose for my consideration any further actions deemed necessary and prudent to end special conditions and preferential treatment for Hong Kong.
Sec. 4.
All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person, of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(a) Any foreign person determined by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, or the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To be or have been involved, directly or indirectly, in the coercing, arresting, detaining, or imprisoning of individuals under the authority of, or to be or have been responsible for or involved in developing, adopting, or implementing, the Law of the People's Republic of China on Safeguarding National Security in the Hong Kong Administrative Region;
(ii) to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have engaged in, directly or indirectly, any of the following:
(A) Actions or policies that undermine democratic processes or institutions in Hong Kong;
(B) actions or policies that threaten the peace, security, stability, or autonomy of Hong Kong;
(C) censorship or other activities with respect to Hong Kong that prohibit, limit, or penalize the exercise of freedom of expression or assembly by citizens of Hong Kong, or that limit access to free and independent print, online or broadcast media; or
(D) the extrajudicial rendition, arbitrary detention, or torture of any person in Hong Kong or other gross violations of internationally recognized human rights or serious human rights abuse in Hong Kong;
(iii) to be or have been a leader or official of:
(A) An entity, including any government entity, that has engaged in, or whose members have engaged in, any of the activities described in subsections (a)(i), (a)(ii)(A), (a)(ii)(B), or (a)(ii)(C) of this section; or
(B) an entity whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.
(iv) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section;
(v) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section; or
(vi) to be a member of the board of directors or a senior executive officer of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section.
(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.
Sec. 5.
I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 4 of this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in
this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 4 of this order.
Sec. 6.
The prohibitions in section 4(a) of this order include:
(a) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 4(a) of this order; and
(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.
Sec. 7.
The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in section 4(a) of this order, as well as immediate family members of such aliens, or aliens determined by the Secretary of State to be employed by, or acting as an agent of, such aliens, would be detrimental to the interest of the United States, and the entry of such persons into the United States, as immigrants and nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended. Such persons shall be treated as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions). The Secretary of State shall have the responsibility of implementing this section pursuant to such conditions and procedures as the Secretary has established or may establish pursuant to Proclamation 8693.
Sec. 8.
(a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 9.
Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of the Federal Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Sec. 10.
For the purposes of this order:
(a) The term “person” means an individual or entity;
(b) the term “entity” means a government or instrumentality of such government, partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization, including an international organization;
(c) the term “United States person” means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States; and
(d) The term “immediate family member” means spouses and children of any age.
Sec. 11.
For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to section 4 of this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 4 of this order.
Sec. 12.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including adopting rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to me by IEEPA as may be necessary to implement this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All departments and agencies of the United States shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.
Sec. 13.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 14.
(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) The authority granted by law to an executive department or agency; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
Sec. 15.
If, based on consideration of the terms, obligations, and expectations expressed in the Joint Declaration, I determine that changes in China's actions ensure that Hong Kong is sufficiently autonomous to justify differential treatment in relation to the PRC under United States law, I will reconsider the determinations made and actions taken and directed under this order.
DONALD J. TRUMP,
THE WHITE HOUSE,
June 11, 2020.
Pt. 586

# PART 586—CHINESE MILITARY-INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
Sec.
586.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
586.201
Prohibited transactions.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
586.300
Applicability of definitions.
586.301
Entity.
586.302
Licenses; general and specific.
586.303
OFAC.
586.304
Person.
586.305
Publicly traded securities.
586.306
United States.
586.307
United States person; U.S. person.
586.308
U.S. financial institution.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
586.401
[Reserved]
586.402
Effect of amendment.
586.403
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
586.404
Subsidiary entities.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
586.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
586.502
[Reserved]
586.503
Exclusion from licenses.

# Subpart F—Reports
586.601
Records and reports.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation
586.701
Penalties and Findings of Violation.

# Subpart H—Procedures
586.801
Procedures.
586.802
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
586.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
Appendix A to Part 586—Executive Order 13959 of November 12, 2020
Appendix B to Part 586—Executive Order 14032 of June 3, 2021

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13959, 85 FR 73185, 3 CFR, 2020 Comp., p. 475; E.O. 14032, 86 FR 30145.

# Source:
87 FR 8736, Feb. 16, 2022, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
§ 586.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

# Note 1 to § 586.101.
This part has been published in abbreviated form for the purpose of providing immediate guidance to the public. OFAC intends to supplement this part with a more comprehensive set of regulations, which may include additional interpretive and definitional guidance, general licenses, and other regulatory provisions.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
§ 586.201
Prohibited transactions.
(a) All transactions prohibited pursuant to Executive order (E.O.) 13959 of November 12, 2020, as amended by E.O. 14032 of June 3, 2021 (“E.O. 13959, as amended”), are prohibited pursuant to this part.
(b) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any further Executive orders
issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13959, as amended, are prohibited pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 586.201.
The names of persons identified in or pursuant to E.O. 13959, as amended, are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Non-SDN Chinese Military-Industrial Complex Companies List (NS-CMIC List) using the following identifier formulation: “[CMIC-EO13959].” The NS-CMIC List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.

# Note 2 to § 586.201.
Section 501.807 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed by persons seeking administrative reconsideration of their status as persons subject to the prohibitions of this section.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
§ 586.300
Applicability of definitions.
The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.
§ 586.301
Entity.
The term
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
§ 586.302
Licenses; general and specific.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
(c) The term
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.

# Note 1 to § 586.302.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
§ 586.303
OFAC.
The term
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
§ 586.304
Person.
The term
person
means an individual or entity.
§ 586.305
Publicly traded securities.
The term
publicly traded securities
includes any
security,
as defined in section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Public Law 73-291 (as codified as amended at 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10)), denominated in any currency that trades on a securities exchange or through the method of trading that is commonly referred to as
over-the-counter,
in any jurisdiction.
§ 586.306
United States.
The term
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
§ 586.307
United States person; U.S. person.
The term
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
§ 586.308
U.S. financial institution.
The term
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices,
and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
§ 586.401
[Reserved]
§ 586.402
Effect of amendment.
Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.
§ 586.403
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized.
§ 586.404
Subsidiary entities.
The prohibitions in § 586.201(a) apply to a subsidiary of an entity identified in or pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 13959 of November 12, 2020, as amended by E.O. 14032 of June 3, 2021 (“E.O. 13959, as amended”), only if the subsidiary itself is identified in or pursuant to E.O. 13959, as amended.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
§ 586.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Chinese Military-Industrial Complex sanctions page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
§ 586.502
[Reserved]
§ 586.503
Exclusion from licenses.
OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

# Subpart F—Reports
§ 586.601
Records and reports.
For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation
§ 586.701
Penalties and Findings of Violation.
(a) The penalties available under section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) (IEEPA), as adjusted annually pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note) or, in the case of criminal violations, as adjusted pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571, are applicable to violations of the provisions of this part.
(b) OFAC has the authority, pursuant to IEEPA, to issue Pre-Penalty Notices, Penalty Notices, and Findings of Violation; impose monetary penalties; engage in settlement discussions and enter into settlements; refer matters to the United States Department of Justice for administrative collection; and, in appropriate circumstances,
refer matters to appropriate law enforcement agencies for criminal investigation and/or prosecution. For more information, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, which provides a general framework for the enforcement of all economic sanctions programs administered by OFAC, including enforcement-related definitions, types of responses to apparent violations, general factors affecting administrative actions, civil penalties for failure to comply with a requirement to furnish information or keep records, and other general civil penalties information.

# Subpart H—Procedures
§ 586.801
Procedures.
For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
§ 586.802
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.
Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 13959 of November 12, 2020, as amended by E.O. 14032 of June 3, 2021, and any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared therein, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
§ 586.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
Pt. 586, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 586—Executive Order 13959 of November 12, 2020 Addressing the Threat From Securities Investments That Finance Communist Chinese Military Companies
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, find that the People's Republic of China (PRC) is increasingly exploiting United States capital to resource and to enable the development and modernization of its military, intelligence, and other security apparatuses, which continues to allow the PRC to directly threaten the United States homeland and United States forces overseas, including by developing and deploying weapons of mass destruction, advanced conventional weapons, and malicious cyber-enabled actions against the United States and its people.
Key to the development of the PRC's military, intelligence, and other security apparatuses is the country's large, ostensibly private economy. Through the national strategy of Military-Civil Fusion, the PRC increases the size of the country's military-industrial complex by compelling civilian Chinese companies to support its military and intelligence activities. Those companies, though remaining ostensibly private and civilian, directly support the PRC's military, intelligence, and security apparatuses and aid in their development and modernization.
At the same time, those companies raise capital by selling securities to United States investors that trade on public exchanges both here and abroad, lobbying United States index providers and funds to include these securities in market offerings, and engaging in other acts to ensure access to United States capital. In that way, the PRC exploits United States investors to finance the development and modernization of its military.
I therefore further find that the PRC's military-industrial complex, by directly supporting the efforts of the PRC's military, intelligence, and other security apparatuses, constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat, which has its source in substantial part outside the United States, to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. To protect the United States homeland and the American people, I
hereby declare a national emergency with respect to this threat.
Accordingly, I hereby order:
Section 1.
(a) The following actions are prohibited:
(i) Beginning 9:30 a.m. eastern standard time on January 11, 2021, any transaction in publicly traded securities, or any securities that are derivative of, or are designed to provide investment exposure to such securities, of any Communist Chinese military company as defined in section 4(a)(i) of this order, by any United States person; and
(ii) beginning 9:30 a.m. eastern standard time on the date that is 60 days after a person is determined to be a Communist Chinese military company pursuant to section (4)(a)(ii) or (iii) of this order, any transaction in publicly traded securities, or any securities that are derivative of, or are designed to provide investment exposure to such securities, of that person, by any United States person.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a)(i) of this section, purchases for value or sales made on or before 11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on November 11, 2021, solely to divest, in whole or in part, from securities that any United States person held as of 9:30 a.m. eastern standard time on January 11, 2021, in a Communist Chinese military company as defined in section 4(a)(i) of this order, are permitted.
(c) Notwithstanding subsection (a)(ii) of this section, for a person determined to be a Communist Chinese military company pursuant to section 4(a)(ii) or (iii) of this order, purchases for value or sales made on or before 365 days from the date of such determination, solely to divest, in whole or in part, from securities that any United States person held in such person, as of the date 60 days from the date of such determination, are permitted.
(d) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.
Sec. 2.
(a) Any transaction by a United States person or within the United States that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 3.
(a) The Secretary of the Treasury, after consultation with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Director of National Intelligence, and the heads of other executive departments and agencies (agencies) as deemed appropriate by the Secretary of the Treasury, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA, to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All agencies shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.
(b) Rules and regulations issued pursuant to this order may, among other things, establish procedures to license transactions otherwise prohibited pursuant to this order. But prior to issuing any license under this order, the Secretary of the Treasury shall consult with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, and the Director of National Intelligence.
Sec. 4.
Definitions.
For purposes of this order:
(a) The term “Communist Chinese military company” means
(i) any person that the Secretary of Defense has listed as a Communist Chinese military company operating directly or indirectly in the United States or in any of its territories or possessions pursuant to section 1237 of Public Law 105-261, as amended by section 1233 of Public Law 106-398 and section 1222 of Public Law 108-375, as of the date of this order, and as set forth in the Annex to this order, until such time as the Secretary of Defense removes such person from such list;
(ii) any person that the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, determines is a Communist Chinese military company operating directly or indirectly in the United States or in any of its territories or possessions and therefore lists as such pursuant to section 1237 of Public Law 105-261, as amended by section 1233 of Public Law 106-398 and section 1222 of Public Law 108-375, until such time as the Secretary of Defense removes such person from such list; or
(iii) any person that the Secretary of the Treasury publicly lists as meeting the criteria in section 1237(b)(4)(B) of Public Law 105-261, or publicly lists as a subsidiary of a person already determined to be a Communist Chinese military company, until the Secretary of the Treasury determines that such person no longer meets that criteria and removes such person from such list.
(b) The term “entity” means a government or instrumentality of such government, partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;
(c) the term “person” means an individual or entity;
(d) the terms “security” and “securities” include the definition of “security” in section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, Public Law 73-291, as codified as amended at 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10), except that currency or any note, draft, bill of exchange, or banker's acceptance which has a maturity at the time of issuance of not exceeding 9 months, exclusive of days of grace, or any renewal thereof the maturity of which is likewise limited, shall be a security for purposes of this order.
(e) The term “transaction” means the purchase for value of any publicly traded security; and
(f) the term “United States person” means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
Sec. 5.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State and, as appropriate, the Secretary of Defense, is hereby authorized to submit the recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 6. General Provisions.
(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) The authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
DONALD J. TRUMP
THE WHITE HOUSE,
November 12, 2020

# Annex
Aero Engine Corp of China
Aviation Industry Corporation of China, Ltd. (AVIC)
China Academy of Launch Vehicle Technology (CALT)
China Aerospace Science
Technology Corporation (CASC)
China Aerospace Science
Industry Corporation (CASIC)
China Communication Construction Group Company, Ltd.
China Electronics Corporation (CEC)
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation (CETC)
China Mobile Communications
China National Chemical Corporation (ChernChina)
China National Chemical Engineering Group Co., Ltd. (CNCEC)
China National Nuclear
China Nuclear Engineering
Construction Corporation (CNECC)
China General Nuclear Power
China Railway Construction Corporation (CRCC)
China Shipbuilding Industry Corporation (CSIC)
China South Industries Group Corporation (CSGC)
China Spacesat
China State Construction Group Co., Ltd.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation (CSSC)
China Telecommunications
China Three Gorges Corporation Limited
China United Network Communications Group Co Lt d
CRRC Corporation
Dawning Information Industry Co. (Sugon)
Hikvision
Huawei
Inspur Group
Norinco
Panda Electronics
Sinochem Group Co Ltd
Pt. 586, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 586—Executive Order 14032 of June 3, 2021 Addressing the Threat From Securities Investments That Finance Certain Companies of the People's Republic of China
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) (NEA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of America, find that additional steps are necessary to address the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13959 of November 12, 2020 (Addressing the Threat From Securities Investments That Finance Communist Chinese Military Companies), including the threat posed by the military-industrial complex of the People's Republic of China (PRC) and its involvement in military, intelligence, and security research and development programs, and weapons and related equipment production under the PRC's Military-Civil Fusion strategy. In addition, I find that the use of Chinese surveillance technology outside the PRC and the development or use of Chinese surveillance technology to facilitate repression or serious human rights abuse constitute unusual and extraordinary threats,
which have their source in whole or substantial part outside the United States, to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States, and I hereby expand the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13959 to address those threats.
Accordingly, I hereby order as follows:
Section 1.
Sections 1 through 5 of Executive Order 13959, as amended by Executive Order 13974 of January 13, 2021 (Amending Executive Order 13959—Addressing the Threat From Securities Investments That Finance Communist Chinese Military Companies), are hereby replaced and superseded in their entirety to read as follows:
“
Section 1.
(a) The following activities by a United States person are prohibited: The purchase or sale of any publicly traded securities, or any publicly traded securities that are derivative of such securities or are designed to provide investment exposure to such securities, of any person listed in the Annex to this order or of any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, and, as the Secretary of the Treasury deems appropriate, the Secretary of Defense:
(i) To operate or have operated in the defense and related materiel sector or the surveillance technology sector of the economy of the PRC; or
(ii) to own or control, or to be owned or controlled by, directly or indirectly, a person who operates or has operated in any sector described in subsection (a)(i) of this section, or a person who is listed in the Annex to this order or who has otherwise been determined to be subject to the prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section.
(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section shall take effect:
(i) Beginning at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on August 2, 2021, with respect to any person listed in the Annex to this order; or
(ii) beginning at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on the date that is 60 days after the date of the determination in subsection (a) of this section with respect to any person not listed in the Annex to this order.
(c) The purchase or sale of publicly traded securities described in subsection (a) of this section made solely to effect the divestment, in whole or in part, of such securities by a United States person is permitted prior to:
(i) 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on June 3, 2022, with respect to any person listed in the Annex to this order; or
(ii) 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on the date that is 365 days after the date of the determination in subsection (a) of this section with respect to any person not listed in the Annex to this order.
(d) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.
Sec. 2.
(a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 3.
For the purposes of this order:
(a) The term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;
(b) the term “person” means an individual or entity;
(c) the term “publicly traded securities” includes any “security,” as defined in section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Public Law 73-291 (as codified as amended at 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10)), denominated in any currency that trades on a securities exchange or through the method of trading that is commonly referred to as “over-the-counter,” in any jurisdiction; and
(d) the term “United States person” means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
Sec. 4.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA, as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All executive departments and agencies (agencies) of the United States shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.
Sec. 5.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 6.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, and, as the Secretary of the Treasury deems appropriate, the Secretary of Defense, is hereby authorized to determine that circumstances no longer warrant the application of the prohibitions in section 1(a) of this order with respect to a person listed in the Annex to this order, and to take necessary action to give effect to that determination.”
Sec. 2.
The Annex to Executive Order 13959 is replaced and superseded in its entirety by the Annex to this order.
Sec. 3.
Section 6 of Executive Order 13959 is amended to replace “Sec. 6.” with “Sec. 7.”
Sec. 4.
Executive Order 13974 is hereby revoked in its entirety. The Secretary of the Treasury and the heads of agencies shall take all necessary steps to rescind any orders or prohibitions issued prior to the date of this order implementing or enforcing Executive Order 13974 or the versions of sections 1 through 5 of Executive Order 13959 replaced and superseded by section 1 of this order.
Sec. 5.
(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) The authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
THE WHITE HOUSE,
June 3, 2021

# Annex
AERO ENGINE CORPORATION OF CHINA
AEROSPACE CH UAV CO., LTD
AEROSPACE COMMUNICATIONS HOLDINGS GROUP COMPANY LIMITED
AEROSUN CORPORATION
ANHUI GREATWALL MILITARY INDUSTRY COMPANY LIMITED
AVIATION INDUSTRY CORPORATION OF CHINA, LTD.
AVIC AVIATION HIGH-TECHNOLOGY COMPANY LIMITED
AVIC HEAVY MACHINERY COMPANY LIMITED
AVIC JONHON OPTRONIC TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD.
AVIC SHENYANG AIRCRAFT COMPANY LIMITED
AVIC XI'AN AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY GROUP COMPANY LTD.
CHANGSHA JINGJIA MICROELECTRONICS COMPANY LIMITED
CHINA ACADEMY OF LAUNCH VEHICLE TECHNOLOGY
CHINA AEROSPACE SCIENCE AND INDUSTRY CORPORATION LIMITED CHINA AEROSPACE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION
CHINA AEROSPACE TIMES ELECTRONICS CO., LTD
CHINA AVIONICS SYSTEMS COMPANY LIMITED
CHINA COMMUNICATIONS CONSTRUCTION COMPANY LIMITED
CHINA COMMUNICATIONS CONSTRUCTION GROUP (LIMITED)
CHINA ELECTRONICS CORPORATION
CHINA ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY GROUP CORPORATION
CHINA GENERAL NUCLEAR POWER CORPORATION
CHINA MARINE INFORMATION ELECTRONICS COMPANY LIMITED
CHINA MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS GROUP CO., LTD.
CHINA MOBILE LIMITED
CHINA NATIONAL NUCLEAR CORPORATION
CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORPORATION
CHINA NORTH INDUSTRIES GROUP CORPORATION LIMITED
CHINA NUCLEAR ENGINEERING CORPORATION LIMITED
CHINA RAILWAY CONSTRUCTION CORPORATION LIMITED
CHINA SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS CO., LTD.
CHINA SHIPBUILDING INDUSTRY COMPANY LIMITED
CHINA SHIPBUILDING INDUSTRY GROUP POWER COMPANY LIMITED
CHINA SOUTH INDUSTRIES GROUP CORPORATION
CHINA SPACESAT CO., LTD.
CHINA STATE SHIPBUILDING CORPORATION LIMITED
CHINA TELECOM CORPORATION LIMITED
CHINA TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CHINA UNITED NETWORK COMMUNICATIONS GROUP CO., LTD.
CNOOC LIMITED
COSTAR GROUP CO., LTD.
CSSC OFFSHORE
MARINE ENGINEERING (GROUP) COMPANY LIMITED
FUJIAN TORCH ELECTRON TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD.
GUIZHOU SPACE APPLIANCE CO., LTD
HANGZHOU HIKVISION DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD.
HUAWEI INVESTMENT
HOLDING CO., LTD.
HUAWEI TECHNOLOGIES CO., LTD.
INNER MONGOLIA FIRST MACHINERY GROUP CO., LTD.
INSPUR GROUP CO., LTD.
JIANGXI HONGDU AVIATION INDUSTRY CO., LTD.
NANJING PANDA ELECTRONICS COMPANY LIMITED
NORTH NAVIGATION CONTROL TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD.
PANDA ELECTRONICS GROUP CO., LTD.
PROVEN GLORY CAPITAL LIMITED
PROVEN HONOUR CAPITAL LIMITED
SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
SHAANXI ZHONGTIAN ROCKET TECHNOLOGY COMPANY LIMITED
ZHONGHANG ELECTRONIC MEASURING INSTRUMENTS COMPANY LIMITED
Pt. 587

# PART 587—RUSSIAN HARMFUL FOREIGN ACTIVITIES SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
Sec.
587.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
587.201
Prohibited transactions.
587.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
587.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
587.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.
587.205
Exempt transactions.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
587.300
Applicability of definitions.
587.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
587.302
Effective date.
587.303
Entity.
587.304
Financial, material, or technological support.
587.305
Government of the Russian Federation.
587.306
[Reserved]
587.307
Interest.
587.308
Licenses; general and specific.
587.309
OFAC.
587.310
Person.
587.311
Property; property interest.
587.312
Transfer.
587.313
United States.
587.314
United States person; U.S. person.
587.315
U.S. financial institution.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
587.401
[Reserved]
587.402
Effect of amendment.
587.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
587.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
587.405
Setoffs prohibited.
587.406
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
587.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
587.502
[Reserved]
587.503
Exclusion from licenses.
587.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
587.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.
587.506
Provision of certain legal services.
587.507
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
587.508
Emergency medical services.
587.509
Official business of the United States Government.
587.510
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

# Subpart F—Reports
587.601
Records and reports.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation
587.701
Penalties and findings of violation.

# Subpart H—Procedures
587.801
Procedures.
587.802
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
587.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
Appendix A to Part 587—Executive Order 14024 of April 15, 2021

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 14024, 86 FR 20249, 3 CFR, 2021 Comp., p. 542.

# Source:
87 FR 11297, Mar. 1, 2022, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
§ 587.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions
taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

# Note 1 to § 587.101.
This part has been published in abbreviated form for the purpose of providing immediate guidance to the public. OFAC intends to supplement this part with a more comprehensive set of regulations, which may include additional interpretive guidance and definitions, general licenses, and other regulatory provisions.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
§ 587.201
Prohibited transactions.
(a) All transactions prohibited pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 14024 of April 15, 2021 are prohibited pursuant to this part.
(b) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 14024 are prohibited pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 587.201.
The names of persons designated or identified as blocked pursuant to E.O. 14024, or listed in, or designated or identified as blocked pursuant to, any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared therein, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifier formulation: “[RUSSIA-EO[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 587.406 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.

# Note 2 to § 587.201.
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifier formulation: “[BPI-RUSSIA-EO[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”

# Note 3 to § 587.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.

# Note 4 to § 587.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
[87 FR 11297, Mar. 1, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 75966, Sept. 17, 2024]
§ 587.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 587.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right,
remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 587.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 587.201.
§ 587.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 587.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For the purposes of this section, the term
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of
this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For the purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For the purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 587.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 587.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.
§ 587.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.
(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 587.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 587.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.
§ 587.205
Exempt transactions.
(a)
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
(b)
Official business.
The prohibitions contained in § 587.201(a) do not apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government or the United Nations (including its Specialized Agencies, Programmes, Funds, and Related Organizations) by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
§ 587.300
Applicability of definitions.
The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.
§ 587.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
The terms
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 587.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.

# Note 1 to § 587.301.
See
§ 587.406 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or
more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201.
§ 587.302
Effective date.
(a) The term
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and, with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section, c
onstructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.
§ 587.303
Entity.
The term
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
§ 587.304
Financial, material, or technological support.
The term
financial, material, or technological support
means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
§ 587.305
Government of the Russian Federation.
The term
Government of the Russian Federation
means the Government of the Russian Federation, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the Central Bank of the Russian Federation, and any person owned, controlled, or directed by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of the Russian Federation.
§ 587.306
[Reserved]
§ 587.307
Interest.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
§ 587.308
Licenses; general and specific.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
(c) The term
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.

# Note 1 to § 587.308.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
§ 587.309
OFAC.
The term
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
§ 587.310
Person.
The term
person
means an individual or entity.
§ 587.311
Property; property interest.
The terms
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods,
wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
§ 587.312
Transfer.
The term
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
§ 587.313
United States.
The term
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
§ 587.314
United States person; U.S. person.
The term
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
§ 587.315
U.S. financial institution.
The term
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
§ 587.401
[Reserved]
§ 587.402
Effect of amendment.
Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction,
or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.
§ 587.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 587.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 587.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.
§ 587.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(a) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201; or
(b) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
§ 587.405
Setoffs prohibited.
A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. financial institution or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 587.201 if effected after the effective date.
§ 587.406
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.
Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
§ 587.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Russian Harmful Foreign Activities sanctions page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
§ 587.502
[Reserved]
§ 587.503
Exclusion from licenses.
OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof.
Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.
§ 587.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.

# Note 1 to § 587.504.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 587.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
§ 587.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.
(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
§ 587.506
Provision of certain legal services.
(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 587.507, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services,
such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services.
See
§ 587.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 587.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 587.506.
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.
§ 587.507
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
(a)
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 587.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 587.506(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b)
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[87 FR 11297, Mar. 1, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 103648, Dec. 19, 2024]
§ 587.508
Emergency medical services.
The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.
§ 587.509
Official business of the United States Government.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
§ 587.510
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing; and
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.

# Subpart F—Reports
§ 587.601
Records and reports.
For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation
§ 587.701
Penalties and Findings of Violation.
(a) The penalties available under section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) (IEEPA), as adjusted annually pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note) or, in the case of criminal violations, as adjusted pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571, are applicable to violations of the provisions of this part.
(b) OFAC has the authority, pursuant to IEEPA, to issue Pre-Penalty Notices, Penalty Notices, and Findings of Violation; impose monetary penalties; engage in settlement discussions and enter into settlements; refer matters to the United States Department of Justice for administrative collection; and, in appropriate circumstances, refer matters to appropriate law enforcement agencies for criminal investigation and/or prosecution. For more information, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, which provides a general framework for the enforcement of all economic sanctions programs administered by OFAC, including enforcement-related definitions, types of responses to apparent violations, general factors affecting administrative actions, civil penalties for failure to comply with a requirement to furnish information or keep records, and other general civil penalties information.

# Subpart H—Procedures
§ 587.801
Procedures.
For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
§ 587.802
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.
Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 14024 of April 15, 2021, and any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared therein, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
§ 587.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
Pt. 587, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 587—Executive Order 14024 of April 15, 2021

# Executive Order 14024 of April 15, 2021

# Blocking Property With Respect To Specified Harmful Foreign Activities of the Government of the Russian Federation.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) (NEA), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of America, find that specified harmful foreign activities of the Government of the Russian Federation—in particular, efforts to undermine the conduct of free and fair democratic elections and democratic institutions in the United States and its allies and partners; to engage in and facilitate malicious cyber-enabled activities against the United States and its allies and partners; to foster and use transnational corruption to influence foreign governments; to pursue extraterritorial activities targeting dissidents or journalists; to undermine security in countries and regions important to United States national security; and to violate well-established principles of international law, including respect for the territorial integrity of states—constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. I hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat.
Accordingly, I hereby order:
Section 1.
All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(a) Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, and, with respect to subsection (a)(ii) of this section, in consultation with the Attorney General, or by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, and, with respect to subsection (a)(ii) of this section, in consultation with the Attorney General:
(i) To operate or have operated in the technology sector or the defense and related materiel sector of the Russian Federation economy, or any other sector of the Russian Federation economy as may be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State;
(ii) to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged or attempted to engage in, any of the following for or on behalf of, or for the benefit of, directly or indirectly, the Government of the Russian Federation:
(A) Malicious cyber-enabled activities;
(B) interference in a United States or other foreign government election;
(C) actions or policies that undermine democratic processes or institutions in the United States or abroad;
(D) transnational corruption;
(E) assassination, murder, or other unlawful killing of, or infliction of other bodily harm against, a United States person or a citizen or national of a United States ally or partner;
(F) activities that undermine the peace, security, political stability, or territorial integrity of the United States, its allies, or its partners; or
(G) deceptive or structured transactions or dealings to circumvent any United States sanctions, including through the use of digital currencies or assets or the use of physical assets;
(iii) to be or have been a leader, official, senior executive officer, or member of the board of directors of:
(A) The Government of the Russian Federation;
(B) an entity that has, or whose members have, engaged in any activity described in subsection (a)(ii) of this section; or
(C) an entity whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order;
(iv) to be a political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of the Government of the Russian Federation;
(v) to be a spouse or adult child of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to subsection (a)(ii) or (iii) of this section;
(vi) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of:
(A) Any activity described in subsection (a)(ii) of this section; or
(B) any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or
(vii) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, the Government of the Russian Federation or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.
(b) any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, a government whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to chapter V of title 31 of the Code of Federal Regulations or another Executive Order, and to be:
(i) A citizen or national of the Russian Federation;
(ii) an entity organized under the laws of the Russian Federation or any jurisdiction within the Russian Federation (including foreign branches); or
(iii) a person ordinarily resident in the Russian Federation.
(c) any person determined by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary
of the Treasury, to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged in or attempted to engage in, cutting or disrupting gas or energy supplies to Europe, the Caucasus, or Asia, and to be:
(i) An individual who is a citizen or national of the Russian Federation; or
(ii) an entity organized under the laws of the Russian Federation or any jurisdiction within the Russian Federation (including foreign branches).
(d) The prohibitions in subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.
Sec. 2.
The prohibitions in section 1 of this order include:
(a) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and
(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.
Sec. 3.
(a) The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of noncitizens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in section 1 of this order would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and the entry of such persons into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended, except when the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland Security, as appropriate, determines that the person's entry would not be contrary to the interests of the United States, including when the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland Security, as appropriate, so determines, based on a recommendation of the Attorney General, that the person's entry would further important United States law enforcement objectives.
(b) The Secretary of State shall implement this authority as it applies to visas pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, may establish.
(c) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall implement this order as it applies to the entry of noncitizens pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of State, may establish.
(d) Such persons shall be treated by this section in the same manner as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions).
Sec. 4.
(a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 5.
I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order.
Sec. 6.
For the purposes of this order:
(a) The term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;
(b) the term “Government of the Russian Federation” means the Government of the Russian Federation, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the Central Bank of the Russian Federation, and any person owned, controlled, or directed by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of the Russian Federation;
(c) the term “noncitizen” means any person who is not a citizen or noncitizen national of the United States;
(d) the term “person” means an individual or entity; and
(e) the term “United States person” means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
Sec. 7.
For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.
Sec. 8.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA, as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate
any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All departments and agencies of the United States shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.
Sec. 9.
Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of the Federal Government or the United Nations (including its specialized agencies, programs, funds, and related organizations) by employees, grantees, and contractors thereof.
Sec. 10.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 11.
(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) The authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
THE WHITE HOUSE,
April 15, 2021.
Pt. 588

# PART 588—WESTERN BALKANS STABILIZATION REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
Sec.
588.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
588.201
Prohibited transactions.
588.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
588.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
588.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.
588.205
Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.
588.206
Exempt transactions.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
588.300
Applicability of definitions.
588.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
588.302
Effective date.
588.303
Entity.
588.304
Financial, material, or technological support.
588.305
[Reserved]
588.306
Interest.
588.307
Licenses; general and specific.
588.308
OFAC.
588.309
Person.
588.310
Property; property interest.
588.311
Transfer.
588.312
United States.
588.313
United States person; U.S. person.
588.314
U.S. financial institution.
588.315
Western Balkans.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
588.401
Reference to amended sections.
588.402
Effect of amendment.
588.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
588.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
588.405
Provision and receipt of services.
588.406
Offshore transactions involving blocked property.
588.407
Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.
588.408
Charitable contributions.
588.409
Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.
588.410
Setoffs prohibited.
588.411
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
588.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
588.502
Effect of license or other authorization.
588.503
Exclusion from licenses.
588.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
588.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.
588.506
Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.
588.507
Provision of certain legal services.
588.508
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
588.509
Emergency medical services.
588.510
Official business of the United States Government.
588.511
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
588.512
Authorizing certain transactions in support of nongovernmental organizations' activities.
588.513
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

# Subpart F—Reports
588.601
Records and reports.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation
588.701
Penalties.
588.702
Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.
588.703
Penalty imposition.
588.704
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.
588.705
Findings of Violation.

# Subpart H—Procedures
588.801
Procedures.
588.802
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
588.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
22 U.S.C. 287c; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13219, 66 FR 34777, 3 CFR, 2001 Comp., p. 778; E.O. 13304, 68 FR 32315, 3 CFR, 2004 Comp., p. 229; E.O. 14033, 86 FR 43905, 3 CFR, 2022 Comp., p. 591.

# Source:
87 FR 58996, Sept. 29, 2022, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
§ 588.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
§ 588.201
Prohibited transactions.
(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(1)
E.O. 13219 Annex.
The persons listed in the Annex to E.O. 13219 of June 26, 2001, as amended by E.O. 13304 of May 28, 2003; and
(2)
E.O. 13219 as amended by E.O. 13304.
Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To be under open indictment by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, unless circumstances warrant otherwise;
(ii) To have committed, or to pose a significant risk of committing, acts of violence that have the purpose or effect of threatening the peace in or diminishing the stability or security of any area or state in the Western Balkans region, undermining the authority, efforts, or objectives of international organizations or entities present in the region, or endangering the safety of persons participating in or providing support to the activities of those international organizations or entities;
(iii) To have actively obstructed, or pose a significant risk of actively obstructing, the Ohrid Framework Agreement of 2001 relating to Macedonia, UNSCR 1244 relating to Kosovo, or the Dayton Accords or the Conclusions of the Peace Implementation Conference held in London on December 8-9, 1995, including the decisions or conclusions of the High Representative, the Peace Implementation Council or its Steering
Board, relating to Bosnia and Herzegovina;
(iv) To have materially assisted in, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of, such acts of violence or obstructionism or any person listed in or designated pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section or this paragraph (a)(2); or
(v) To be owned or controlled by, or acting or purporting to act directly or indirectly for or on behalf of, any person listed in or designated pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section or this paragraph (a)(2).
(3)
E.O. 14033.
Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged in, actions or policies that threaten the peace, security, stability, or territorial integrity of any area or state in the Western Balkans;
(ii) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged in, actions or policies that undermine democratic processes or institutions in the Western Balkans;
(iii) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged in, a violation of, or an act that has obstructed or threatened the implementation of, any regional security, peace, cooperation, or mutual recognition agreement or framework or accountability mechanism related to the Western Balkans, including the Prespa Agreement of 2018; the Ohrid Framework Agreement of 2001; United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244; the Dayton Accords; or the Conclusions of the Peace Implementation Conference Council held in London in December 1995, including the decisions or conclusions of the High Representative, the Peace Implementation Council, or its Steering Board; or the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, or, with respect to the former Yugoslavia, the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals;
(iv) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged in, serious human rights abuse in the Western Balkans;
(v) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged in, corruption related to the Western Balkans, including corruption by, on behalf of, or otherwise related to a government in the Western Balkans, or a current or former government official at any level of government in the Western Balkans, such as the misappropriation of public assets, expropriation of private assets for personal gain or political purposes, or bribery;
(vi) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph this (a)(3); or
(vii) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a)(3).
(b) The prohibitions of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section.
(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this part, any dealing in securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to,
on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.
(d) The prohibitions of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
(e) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any Executive order issued after June 8, 2021 pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13219 of June 27, 2001 are prohibited pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 588.201.
The names of persons designated or identified as blocked pursuant to E.O. 13219; E.O. 13219, as amended by E.O. 13304 of May 28, 2003 (“amended E.O. 13219”); E.O. 14033; or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13219, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13219 and amended E.O. 13219: “BALKANS”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13219: using the identifier formulation “BALKANS-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 588.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.

# Note 2 to § 588.201.
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13219 or amended E.O. 13219: “[BPI-BALKANS]”; for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13219: “[BPI-BALKANS-EO[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”

# Note 3 to § 588.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.

# Note 4 to § 588.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
[87 FR 58996, Sept. 29, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 75966, Sept. 17, 2024]
§ 588.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 588.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 588.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer
or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 588.201.
§ 588.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 588.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For the purposes of this section, the term
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For the purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For the purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days
at the time the funds become subject to § 588.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 588.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds blocked pursuant to § 588.201 may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.
§ 588.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.
(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 588.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 588.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.
§ 588.205
Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.
(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
§ 588.206
Exempt transactions.
(a)
United Nations Participation Act.
The exemptions cited in this section do not apply to transactions involving property or interests in property of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c(b)) (UNPA).

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# ).
Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the UNPA include those listed on
both
OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List and the Consolidated United Nations Security Council Sanctions List (
see https://www.un.org).
(b)
International Emergency Economic Powers Act.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any transactions that are exempt pursuant to section 203(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)).
(c)
Official business.
The prohibitions contained in § 588.201(a)(3) do not apply to any transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
§ 588.300
Applicability of definitions.
The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.
§ 588.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
The terms
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 588.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201, or in
which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.

# Note 1 to § 588.301.
See
§ 588.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201.
§ 588.302
Effective date.
(a) The term
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(1) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201(a)(1), whose name appeared on the Annex to E.O. 13219 as originally issued and also appeared on the Annex to E.O. 13304, 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time June 27, 2001;
(2) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201(a)(1), whose name first appeared on the Annex to E.O. 13304, which replaced and superseded the Annex to E.O. 13219, 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time May 29, 2003; and
(3) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 588.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section, c
onstructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.
§ 588.303
Entity.
The term
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
§ 588.304
Financial, material, or technological support.
The term
financial, material, or technological support,
as used in this part, means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
§ 588.305
[Reserved]
§ 588.306
Interest.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
§ 588.307
Licenses; general and specific.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
(c) The term
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.

# Note 1 to § 588.307.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
[87 FR 58996, Sept. 29, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 25492, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 588.308
OFAC.
The term
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
§ 588.309
Person.
The term
person
means an individual or entity.
§ 588.310
Property; property interest.
The terms
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
§ 588.311
Transfer.
The term
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
§ 588.312
United States.
The term
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
§ 588.313
United States person; U.S. person.
The term
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
§ 588.314
U.S. financial institution.
The term
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward
contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
§ 588.315
Western Balkans.
The term
Western Balkans
means the territory of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Albania.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
§ 588.401
