(E) The registrant includes an undertaking in the proxy statement to deliver promptly upon written or oral request a separate copy of the annual report to security holders, proxy statement or Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, as applicable, to a security holder at a shared address to which a single copy of the document was delivered.
(ii)
Consent
—(A)
Affirmative written consent.
Each security holder must affirmatively consent, in writing, to delivery of one annual report to security holders or proxy statement, as applicable. A security holder's affirmative written consent will be considered valid only if the security holder has been informed of:
(
1
) The duration of the consent;
(
2
) The specific types of documents to which the consent will apply;
(
3
) The procedures the security holder must follow to revoke consent; and
(
4
) The registrant's obligation to begin sending individual copies to a security holder within thirty days after the security holder revokes consent.
(B)
Implied consent.
The registrant need not obtain affirmative written consent from a security holder for purposes of paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(A) of this section if all of the following conditions are met:
(
1
) The security holder has the same last name as the other security holders at the shared address or the registrant reasonably believes that the security holders are members of the same family;
(
2
) The registrant has sent the security holder a notice at least 60 days before the registrant begins to rely on
this section concerning delivery of annual reports to security holders, proxy statements or Notices of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials to that security holder. The notice must:
(
i
) Be a separate written document;
(
ii
) State that only one annual report to security holders, proxy statement or Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, as applicable, will be delivered to the shared address unless the registrant receives contrary instructions;
(
iii
) Include a toll-free telephone number, or be accompanied by a reply form that is pre-addressed with postage provided, that the security holder can use to notify the registrant that the security holder wishes to receive a separate annual report to security holders, proxy statement or Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials;
(
iv
) State the duration of the consent;
(
v
) Explain how a security holder can revoke consent;
(
vi
) State that the registrant will begin sending individual copies to a security holder within thirty days after the security holder revokes consent; and
(
vii
) Contain the following prominent statement, or similar clear and understandable statement, in bold-face type: “Important Notice Regarding Delivery of Security Holder Documents.” This statement also must appear on the envelope in which the notice is delivered. Alternatively, if the notice is delivered separately from other communications to security holders, this statement may appear either on the notice or on the envelope in which the notice is delivered.

# Note to paragraph (
e

# )(1)(
ii

# )(B)(
2

# ):
The notice should be written in plain English. See § 230.421(d)(2) of this chapter for a discussion of plain English principles.
(
3
) The registrant has not received the reply form or other notification indicating that the security holder wishes to continue to receive an individual copy of the annual report to security holders, proxy statement or Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, as applicable, within 60 days after the registrant sent the notice required by paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(B)(
2
) of this section; and
(
4
) The registrant delivers the document to a post office box or residential street address.

# Note to paragraph (
e

# )(1)(
ii

# )(B)(
4

# ):
The registrant can assume that a street address is residential unless the registrant has information that indicates the street address is a business.
(iii)
Revocation of consent.
If a security holder, orally or in writing, revokes consent to delivery of one annual report to security holders, proxy statement or Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials to a shared address, the registrant must begin sending individual copies to that security holder within 30 days after the registrant receives revocation of the security holder's consent.
(iv)
Definition of address.
Unless otherwise indicated, for purposes of this section, address means a street
address,
a post office box number, an electronic mail address, a facsimile telephone number or other similar destination to which paper or electronic documents are delivered, unless otherwise provided in this section. If the registrant has reason to believe that the address is a street address of a multi-unit building, the address must include the unit number.

# Note to paragraph (
e

# )(1):
A person other than the registrant making a proxy solicitation may deliver a single proxy statement to security holders of record or beneficial owners who have separate accounts and share an address if: (a) the registrant or intermediary has followed the procedures in this section; and (b) the registrant or intermediary makes available the shared address information to the person in accordance with § 240.14a-7(a)(2)(i) and (ii).
(2) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, unless state law requires otherwise, a registrant is not required to send an annual report to security holders, proxy statement or Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials to a security holder if:
(i) An annual report to security holders and a proxy statement, or a Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, for two consecutive annual meetings; or
(ii) All, and at least two, payments (if sent by first class mail) of dividends or interest on securities, or dividend reinvestment confirmations, during a
twelve month period, have been mailed to such security holder's address and have been returned as undeliverable. If any such security holder delivers or causes to be delivered to the registrant written notice setting forth his then current address for security holder communications purposes, the registrant's obligation to deliver an annual report to security holders, a proxy statement or a Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials under this section is reinstated.
(f) The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to a communication made by means of speeches in public forums, press releases, published or broadcast opinions, statements, or advertisements appearing in a broadcast media, newspaper, magazine or other bona fide publication disseminated on a regular basis, provided that:
(1) No form of proxy, consent or authorization or means to execute the same is provided to a security holder in connection with the communication; and
(2) At the time the communication is made, a definitive proxy statement is on file with the Commission pursuant to § 240.14a-6(b).
[39 FR 40768, Nov. 20, 1974]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 240.14a-3, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 240.14a-4
Requirements as to proxy.
(a) The form of proxy (1) shall indicate in bold-face type whether or not the proxy is solicited on behalf of the registrant's board of directors or, if provided other than by a majority of the board of directors, shall indicate in bold-face type on whose behalf the solicitation is made;
(2) Shall provide a specifically designated blank space for dating the proxy card; and
(3) Shall identify clearly and impartially each separate matter intended to be acted upon, whether or not related to or conditioned on the approval of other matters, and whether proposed by the registrant or by security holders. No reference need be made, however, to proposals as to which discretionary authority is conferred pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(3) (Electronic filers):
Electronic filers shall satisfy the filing requirements of Rule 14a-6(a) or (b) (§ 240.14a-6(a) or (b)) with respect to the form of proxy by filing the form of proxy as an appendix at the end of the proxy statement. Forms of proxy shall not be filed as exhibits or separate documents within an electronic submission.
(b)(1) Means shall be provided in the form of proxy whereby the person solicited is afforded an opportunity to specify by boxes a choice between approval or disapproval of, or abstention with respect to each separate matter referred to therein as intended to be acted upon, other than elections to office and votes to determine the frequency of shareholder votes on executive compensation pursuant to § 240.14a-21(b) of this chapter. A proxy may confer discretionary authority with respect to matters as to which a choice is not specified by the security holder provided that the form of proxy states in bold-face type how it is intended to vote the shares represented by the proxy in each such case.
(2) A form of proxy that provides for the election of directors shall set forth the names of persons nominated for election as directors, including any person whose nomination by a shareholder or shareholder group satisfies the requirements of an applicable state or foreign law provision, or a registrant's governing documents as they relate to the inclusion of shareholder director nominees in the registrant's proxy materials.
(3) Except as otherwise provided in § 240.14a-19, a form of proxy that provides for the election of directors may provide a means for the security holder to grant authority to vote for the nominees set forth, as a group, provided that there is a similar means for the security holder to withhold authority to vote for such group of nominees (or, when applicable state law gives legal effect to votes cast against a nominee, a similar means for the security holder to vote against such group of nominees and a means for security holders to abstain from voting for such group of nominees). Any such form of
proxy which is executed by the security holder in such manner as not to withhold authority to vote for the election of any nominee, or not to grant authority to vote against the election of any nominee, shall be deemed to grant authority to vote for the election of any nominee, provided that the form of proxy so states in bold-face type. Means to grant authority to vote for any nominees as a group or to withhold authority for any nominees as a group or to vote against any nominees as a group may not be provided if the form of proxy includes one or more shareholder nominees in accordance with an applicable state or foreign law provision, or a registrant's governing documents as they relate to the inclusion of shareholder director nominees in the registrant's proxy materials.
(4) When applicable state law gives legal effect to votes cast against a nominee, then in lieu of providing a means for security holders to withhold authority to vote, the form of proxy shall provide a means for security holders to vote against each nominee and a means for security holders to abstain from voting. When applicable state law does not give legal effect to votes cast against a nominee, such form of proxy shall not provide a means for security holders to vote against any nominee and such form of proxy shall clearly provide any of the following means for security holders to withhold authority to vote for each nominee:
(i) A box opposite the name of each nominee which may be marked to indicate that authority to vote for such nominee is withheld; or
(ii) An instruction in bold-face type which indicates that the security holder may withhold authority to vote for any nominee by lining through or otherwise striking out the name of any nominee; or
(iii) Designated blank spaces in which the security holder may enter the names of nominees with respect to whom the security holder chooses to withhold authority to vote; or
(iv) Any other similar means, provided that clear instructions are furnished indicating how the security holder may withhold authority to vote for any nominee.
Instruction 1 to paragraphs (b)(2), (3), and (4). Paragraphs (b)(2), (3), and (4) do not apply in the case of a merger, consolidation or other plan if the election of directors is an integral part of the plan.
(5) A form of proxy which provides for a shareholder vote on the frequency of shareholder votes to approve the compensation of executives required by section 14A(a)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78n-1(a)(2)) shall provide means whereby the person solicited is afforded an opportunity to specify by boxes a choice among 1, 2 or 3 years, or abstain.
(c) A proxy may confer discretionary authority to vote on any of the following matters:
(1) For an annual meeting of shareholders, if the registrant did not have notice of the matter at least 45 days before the date on which the registrant first sent its proxy materials for the prior year's annual meeting of shareholders (or date specified by an advance notice provision), and a specific statement to that effect is made in the proxy statement or form of proxy. If during the prior year the registrant did not hold an annual meeting, or if the date of the meeting has changed more than 30 days from the prior year, then notice must not have been received a reasonable time before the registrant sends its proxy materials for the current year.
(2) In the case in which the registrant has received timely notice in connection with an annual meeting of shareholders (as determined under paragraph (c)(1) of this section), if the registrant includes, in the proxy statement, advice on the nature of the matter and how the registrant intends to exercise its discretion to vote on each matter. However, even if the registrant includes this information in its proxy statement, it may not exercise discretionary voting authority on a particular proposal if the proponent:
(i) Provides the registrant with a written statement, within the time-frame determined under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, that the proponent intends to deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the company's
voting shares required under applicable law to carry the proposal;
(ii) Includes the same statement in its proxy materials filed under § 240.14a-6; and
(iii) Immediately after soliciting the percentage of shareholders required to carry the proposal, provides the registrant with a statement from any solicitor or other person with knowledge that the necessary steps have been taken to deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the company's voting shares required under applicable law to carry the proposal.
(3) For solicitations other than for annual meetings or for solicitations by persons other than the registrant, matters which the persons making the solicitation do not know, a reasonable time before the solicitation, are to be presented at the meeting, if a specific statement to that effect is made in the proxy statement or form of proxy.
(4) Approval of the minutes of the prior meeting if such approval does not amount to ratification of the action taken at that meeting;
(5) The election of any person to any office for which a bona fide nominee is named in a proxy statement and such nominee is unable to serve or for good cause will not serve.
(6) Any proposal omitted from the proxy statement and form of proxy pursuant to § 240.14a-8 or § 240.14a-9 of this chapter.
(7) Matters incident to the conduct of the meeting.
(d) No proxy shall confer authority:
(1) To vote for the election of any person to any office for which a bona fide nominee is not named in the proxy statement:
(i) A person shall not be deemed to be a bona fide nominee and shall not be named as such unless the person has consented to being named in a proxy statement relating to the registrant's next annual meeting of shareholders at which directors are to be elected (or a special meeting in lieu of such meeting) and to serve if elected.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, if the registrant is an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
) or a business development company as defined by section 2(a)(48) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(48)), a person shall not be deemed to be a bona fide nominee and shall not be named as such unless the person has consented to being named in the proxy statement and to serve if elected. Provided, however, that nothing in this section shall prevent any person soliciting in support of nominees who, if elected, would constitute a minority of the board of directors of an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 or a business development company as defined by section 2(a)(48) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, from seeking authority to vote for nominees named in the registrant's proxy statement, so long as the soliciting party:
(A) Seeks authority to vote in the aggregate for the number of director positions then subject to election;
(B) Represents that it will vote for all the registrant nominees, other than those registrant nominees specified by the soliciting party;
(C) Provides the security holder an opportunity to withhold authority with respect to any other registrant nominee by writing the name of that nominee on the form of proxy; and
(D) States on the form of proxy and in the proxy statement that there is no assurance that the registrant's nominees will serve if elected with any of the soliciting party's nominees;
(2) To vote at any annual meeting other than the next annual meeting (or any adjournment thereof) to be held after the date on which the proxy statement and form of proxy are first sent or given to security holders;
(3) To vote with respect to more than one meeting (and any adjournment thereof) or more than one consent solicitation; or
(4) To consent to or authorize any action other than the action proposed to be taken in the proxy statement, or matters referred to in paragraph (c) of this section.
(e) The proxy statement or form of proxy shall provide, subject to reasonable specified conditions, that the shares represented by the proxy will be
voted and that where the person solicited specifies by means of a ballot provided pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section a choice with respect to any matter to be acted upon, the shares will be voted in accordance with the specifications so made.
(f) No person conducting a solicitation subject to this regulation shall deliver a form of proxy, consent or authorization to any security holder unless the security holder concurrently receives, or has previously received, a definitive proxy statement that has been filed with the Commission pursuant to § 240.14a-6(b).
[17 FR 11432, Dec. 18, 1952, as amended at 31 FR 212, Jan. 7, 1966; 32 FR 20963, Dec. 29, 1967; 44 FR 68770, Nov. 29, 1979; 45 FR 76979, Nov. 21, 1980; 51 FR 42060, Nov. 20, 1986; 57 FR 48291, Oct. 22, 1992; 59 FR 67764, Dec. 30, 1994; 63 FR 29118, May 28, 1998; 63 FR 50622, Sept. 22, 1998; 64 FR 61456, Nov. 10, 1999; 72 FR 4167, Jan. 29, 2007; 76 FR 6045, Feb. 2, 2011; 75 FR 56781, Sept. 16, 2010; 86 FR 68378, Dec. 1, 2021]
§ 240.14a-5
Presentation of information in proxy statement.
(a) The information included in the proxy statement shall be clearly presented and the statements made shall be divided into groups according to subject matter and the various groups of statements shall be preceded by appropriate headings. The order of items and sub-items in the schedule need not be followed. Where practicable and appropriate, the information shall be presented in tabular form. All amounts shall be stated in figures. Information required by more than one applicable item need not be repeated. No statement need be made in response to any item or sub-item which is inapplicable.
(b) Any information required to be included in the proxy statement as to terms of securities or other subject matter which from a standpoint of practical necessity must be determined in the future may be stated in terms of present knowledge and intention. To the extent practicable, the authority to be conferred concerning each such matter shall be confined within limits reasonably related to the need for discretionary authority. Subject to the foregoing, information which is not known to the persons on whose behalf the solicitation is to be made and which it is not reasonably within the power of such persons to ascertain or procure may be omitted, if a brief statement of the circumstances rendering such information unavailable is made.
(c) Any information contained in any other proxy soliciting material which has been or will be furnished to each person solicited in connection with the same meeting or subject matter may be omitted from the proxy statement, if a clear reference is made to the particular document containing such information.
(d)(1) All printed proxy statements shall be in roman type at least as large and as legible as 10-point modern type, except that to the extent necessary for convenient presentation financial statements and other tabular data, but not the notes thereto, may be in roman type at least as large and as legible as 8-point modern type. All such type shall be leaded at least 2 points.
(2) Where a proxy statement is delivered through an electronic medium, issuers may satisfy legibility requirements applicable to printed documents, such as type size and font, by presenting all required information in a format readily communicated to investors.
(e) All proxy statements shall disclose, under an appropriate caption, the following dates:
(1) The deadline for submitting shareholder proposals for inclusion in the registrant's proxy statement and form of proxy for the registrant's next annual meeting, calculated in the manner provided in § 240.14a-8(e)(Question 5);
(2) The date after which notice of a shareholder proposal submitted outside the processes of § 240.14a-8 is considered untimely, either calculated in the manner provided by § 240.14a-4(c)(1) or as established by the registrant's advance notice provision, if any, authorized by applicable state law;
(3) The deadline for submitting nominees for inclusion in the registrant's proxy statement and form of proxy pursuant to an applicable state or foreign law provision or a registrant's governing documents as they relate to the inclusion of shareholder director nominees in the registrant's proxy materials for the registrant's next annual meeting of shareholders; and
(4) The deadline for providing notice of a solicitation of proxies in support of director nominees other than the registrant's nominees pursuant to § 240.14a-19 for the registrant's next annual meeting unless the registrant is an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
) or a business development company as defined by section 2(a)(48) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(48)).
(f) If the date of the next annual meeting is subsequently advanced or delayed by more than 30 calendar days from the date of the annual meeting to which the proxy statement relates, the registrant shall, in a timely manner, inform shareholders of such change, and the new dates referred to in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section, by including a notice, under Item 5, in its earliest possible quarterly report on Form 10-Q (§ 249.308a of this chapter), or, in the case of investment companies, in a shareholder report under § 270.30d-1 of this chapter under the Investment Company Act of 1940, or, if impracticable, any means reasonably calculated to inform shareholders.
[17 FR 11432, Dec. 18, 1952, as amended at 36 FR 8935, May 15, 1971; 37 FR 23179, Oct. 31, 1972; 44 FR 68770, Nov. 29, 1979; 51 FR 42061, Nov. 20, 1986; 61 FR 24656, May 15, 1996; 63 FR 29118, May 28, 1998; 63 FR 46881, Sept. 3, 1998; 73 FR 977, Jan. 4, 2008; 75 FR 56782, Sept. 16, 2010; 86 FR 68379, Dec. 1, 2021; 90 FR 9689, Feb. 18, 2025]
§ 240.14a-6
Filing requirements.
(a)
Preliminary proxy statement.
Five preliminary copies of the proxy statement and form of proxy shall be filed with the Commission at least 10 calendar days prior to the date definitive copies of such material are first sent or given to security holders, or such shorter period prior to that date as the Commission may authorize upon a showing of good cause thereunder. A registrant, however, shall not file with the Commission a preliminary proxy statement, form of proxy or other soliciting material to be furnished to security holders concurrently therewith if the solicitation relates to an annual (or special meeting in lieu of the annual) meeting, or for an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
) or a business development company, if the solicitation relates to any meeting of security holders at which the only matters to be acted upon are:
(1) The election of directors;
(2) The election, approval or ratification of accountant(s);
(3) A security holder proposal included pursuant to Rule 14a-8 (§ 240.14a-8 of this chapter);
(4) A shareholder nominee for director included pursuant to an applicable state or foreign law provision or a registrant's governing documents as they relate to the inclusion of shareholder director nominees in the registrant's proxy materials.
(5) The approval or ratification of a plan as defined in paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of Item 402 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.402(a)(6)(ii) of this chapter) or amendments to such a plan;
(6) With respect to an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 or a business development company, a proposal to continue, without change, any advisory or other contract or agreement that previously has been the subject of a proxy solicitation for which proxy material was filed with the Commission pursuant to this section;
(7) With respect to an open-end investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, a proposal to increase the number of shares authorized to be issued; and/or
(8) A vote to approve the compensation of executives as required pursuant to section 14A(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78n-1(a)(1)) and § 240.14a-21(a) of this chapter, or pursuant to section 111(e)(1) of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (12 U.S.C. 5221(e)(1)) and § 240.14a-20 of this chapter, a vote to determine the frequency of shareholder votes to approve the compensation of executives as required pursuant to Section 14A(a)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78n-1(a)(2)) and § 240.14a-21(b) of this chapter, or any other shareholder advisory vote on executive compensation.
This exclusion from filing preliminary proxy material does not apply if the
registrant comments upon or refers to a solicitation in opposition in connection with the meeting in its proxy material.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# ):
The filing of revised material does not recommence the ten day time period unless the revised material contains material revisions or material new proposal(s) that constitute a fundamental change in the proxy material.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
a

# ):
The official responsible for the preparation of the proxy material should make every effort to verify the accuracy and completeness of the information required by the applicable rules. The preliminary material should be filed with the Commission at the earliest practicable date.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
a

# ):
Solicitation in Opposition. For purposes of the exclusion from filing preliminary proxy material, a “solicitation in opposition” includes: {a} Any solicitation opposing a proposal supported by the registrant; {b} any solicitation supporting a proposal that the registrant does not expressly support, other than a security holder proposal included in the registrant's proxy material pursuant to § 240.14a-8; and {c} any solicitation subject to § 240.14a-19. The inclusion of a security holder proposal in the registrant's proxy material pursuant to § 240.14a-8 does not constitute a “solicitation in opposition,” even if the registrant opposes the proposal and/or includes a statement in opposition to the proposal. The inclusion of a shareholder nominee in the registrant's proxy materials pursuant to an applicable state or foreign law provision, or a registrant's governing documents as they relate to the inclusion of shareholder director nominees in the registrant's proxy materials does not constitute a “solicitation in opposition” for purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, even if the registrant opposes the shareholder nominee and solicits against the shareholder nominee and in favor of a registrant nominee.

# Note 4 to paragraph (
a

# ):
A registrant that is filing proxy material in preliminary form only because the registrant has commented on or referred to a solicitation in opposition should indicate that fact in a transmittal letter when filing the preliminary material with the Commission.
(b)
Definitive proxy statement and other soliciting material.
Eight definitive copies of the proxy statement, form of proxy and all other soliciting materials, in the same form as the materials sent to security holders, must be filed with the Commission no later than the date they are first sent or given to security holders. Three copies of these materials also must be filed with, or mailed for filing to, each national securities exchange on which the registrant has a class of securities listed and registered.
(c)
Personal solicitation materials.
If part or all of the solicitation involves personal solicitation, then eight copies of all written instructions or other materials that discuss, review or comment on the merits of any matter to be acted on, that are furnished to persons making the actual solicitation for their use directly or indirectly in connection with the solicitation, must be filed with the Commission no later than the date the materials are first sent or given to these persons.
(d)
Release dates.
All preliminary proxy statements and forms of proxy filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be accompanied by a statement of the date on which definitive copies thereof filed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section are intended to be released to security holders. All definitive material filed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall be accompanied by a statement of the date on which copies of such material were released to security holders, or, if not released, the date on which copies thereof are intended to be released. All material filed pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section shall be accompanied by a statement of the date on which copies thereof were released to the individual who will make the actual solicitation or if not released, the date on which copies thereof are intended to be released.
(e)(1)
Public availability of information.
All copies of preliminary proxy statements and forms of proxy filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be clearly marked “Preliminary Copies,” and shall be deemed immediately available for public inspection unless confidential treatment is obtained pursuant to paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(2)
Confidential treatment.
If action will be taken on any matter specified in Item 14 of Schedule 14A (§ 240.14a-101), all copies of the preliminary proxy statement and form of proxy filed under paragraph (a) of this section will be for the information of the Commission only and will not be deemed available for public inspection until filed
with the Commission in definitive form so long as:
(i) The proxy statement does not relate to a matter or proposal subject to § 240.13e-3 or a roll-up transaction as defined in Item 901(c) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.901(c) of this chapter);
(ii) Neither the parties to the transaction nor any persons authorized to act on their behalf have made any public communications relating to the transaction except for statements where the content is limited to the information specified in § 230.135 of this chapter; and
(iii) The materials are filed in paper and marked “Confidential, For Use of the Commission Only.” In all cases, the materials may be disclosed to any department or agency of the United States Government and to the Congress, and the Commission may make any inquiries or investigation into the materials as may be necessary to conduct an adequate review by the Commission.

# Instruction to paragraph (
e

# )(2):
If communications are made publicly that go beyond the information specified in § 230.135 of this chapter, the preliminary proxy materials must be re-filed promptly with the Commission as public materials.
(f)
Communications not required to be filed.
Copies of replies to inquiries from security holders requesting further information and copies of communications which do no more than request that forms of proxy theretofore solicited be signed and returned need not be filed pursuant to this section.
(g)
Solicitations subject to § 240.14a-2(b)(1).
(1) Any person who:
(i) Engages in a solicitation pursuant to § 240.14a-2(b)(1), and
(ii) At the commencement of that solicitation owns beneficially securities of the class which is the subject of the solicitation with a market value of over $5 million,
shall furnish or mail to the Commission, not later than three days after the date the written solicitation is first sent or given to any security holder, five copies of a statement containing the information specified in the Notice of Exempt Solicitation (§ 240.14a-103) which statement shall attach as an exhibit all written soliciting materials. Five copies of an amendment to such statement shall be furnished or mailed to the Commission, in connection with dissemination of any additional communications, not later than three days after the date the additional material is first sent or given to any security holder. Three copies of the Notice of Exempt Solicitation and amendments thereto shall, at the same time the materials are furnished or mailed to the Commission, be furnished or mailed to each national securities exchange upon which any class of securities of the registrant is listed and registered.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (g)(1) of this section, no such submission need be made with respect to oral solicitations (other than with respect to scripts used in connection with such oral solicitations), speeches delivered in a public forum, press releases, published or broadcast opinions, statements, and advertisements appearing in a broadcast media, or a newspaper, magazine or other bona fide publication disseminated on a regular basis.
(h)
Revised material.
Where any proxy statement, form of proxy or other material filed pursuant to this section is amended or revised, two of the copies of such amended or revised material filed pursuant to this section (or in the case of investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, three of such copies) shall be marked to indicate clearly and precisely the changes effected therein. If the amendment or revision alters the text of the material the changes in such text shall be indicated by means of underscoring or in some other appropriate manner.
(i)
Fees.
At the time of filing the proxy solicitation material, the persons upon whose behalf the solicitation is made, other than investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, shall pay to the Commission the following applicable fee:
(1) For preliminary proxy material involving acquisitions, mergers, spinoffs, consolidations or proposed sales or other dispositions of substantially all the assets of the company, a fee established in accordance with Rule 0-11
(§ 240.0-11 of this chapter) shall be paid. No refund shall be given.
(2) For all other proxy submissions and submissions made pursuant to § 240.14a-6(g), no fee shall be required.
(j)
Merger proxy materials.
(1) Any proxy statement, form of proxy or other soliciting material required to be filed by this section that also is either
(i) Included in a registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933 on Forms S-4 (§ 239.25 of this chapter), F-4 (§ 239.34 of this chapter) or N-14 (§ 239.23 of this chapter); or
(ii) Filed under § 230.424, § 230.425 or § 230.497 of this chapter is required to be filed only under the Securities Act, and is deemed filed under this section.
(2) Under paragraph (j)(1) of this section, the fee required by paragraph (i) of this section need not be paid.
(k)
Computing time periods.
In computing time periods beginning with the filing date specified in Regulation 14A (§§ 240.14a-1 to 240.14b-1 of this chapter), the filing date shall be counted as the first day of the time period and midnight of the last day shall constitute the end of the specified time period.
(l)
Roll-up transactions.
If a transaction is a roll-up transaction as defined in Item 901(c) of Regulation S-K (17 CFR 229.901(c)) and is registered (or authorized to be registered) on Form S-4 (17 CFR 229.25) or Form F-4 (17 CFR 229.34), the proxy statement of the sponsor or the general partner as defined in Item 901(d) and Item 901(a), respectively, of Regulation S-K (17 CFR 229.901) must be distributed to security holders no later than the lesser of 60 calendar days prior to the date on which the meeting of security holders is held or action is taken, or the maximum number of days permitted for giving notice under applicable state law.
(m)
Cover page.
Proxy materials filed with the Commission shall include a cover page in the form set forth in Schedule 14A (§ 240.14a-101 of this chapter). The cover page required by this paragraph need not be distributed to security holders.
(n)
Solicitations subject to § 240.14a-2(b)(4).
Any person who:
(1) Engages in a solicitation pursuant to § 240.14a-2(b)(4); and
(2) At the commencement of that solicitation both owns five percent (5%) or more of the outstanding securities of a class that is the subject of the proposed roll-up transaction, and engages in the business of buying and selling limited partnership interests in the secondary market, shall furnish or mail to the Commission, not later than three days after the date an oral or written solicitation by that person is first made, sent or provided to any security holder, five copies of a statement containing the information specified in the Notice of Exempt Preliminary Roll-up Communication (§ 240.14a-104). Five copies of any amendment to such statement shall be furnished or mailed to the Commission not later than three days after a communication containing revised material is first made, sent or provided to any security holder.
(o)
Solicitations before furnishing a definitive proxy statement.
Solicitations that are published, sent or given to security holders before they have been furnished a definitive proxy statement must be made in accordance with § 240.14a-12 unless there is an exemption available under § 240.14a-2.
(p) [Reserved]
(q)
De-SPAC transactions.
If a transaction is a de-SPAC transaction, as defined in § 229.1601(a) of this chapter (Item 1601(a) of Regulation S-K), the proxy statement of the special purpose acquisition company, as defined in § 229.1601(b) of this chapter (Item 1601(b) of Regulation S-K), must be distributed to security holders no later than the lesser of 20 calendar days prior to the date on which the meeting of security holders is to be held or action is to be taken in connection with the de-SPAC transaction or the maximum number of days permitted for disseminating the proxy statement under the applicable laws of the jurisdiction of incorporation or organization.
[17 FR 11432, Dec. 18, 1952]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 240.14a-6, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 240.14a-7
Obligations of registrants to provide a list of, or mail soliciting material to, security holders.
(a) If the registrant has made or intends to make a proxy solicitation in connection with a security holder meeting or action by consent or authorization, upon the written request by any record or beneficial holder of securities of the class entitled to vote at the meeting or to execute a consent or authorization to provide a list of security holders or to mail the requesting security holder's materials, regardless of whether the request references this section, the registrant shall:
(1) Deliver to the requesting security holder within five business days after receipt of the request:
(i) Notification as to whether the registrant has elected to mail the security holder's soliciting materials or provide a security holder list if the election under paragraph (b) of this section is to be made by the registrant;
(ii) A statement of the approximate number of record holders and beneficial holders, separated by type of holder and class, owning securities in the same class or classes as holders which have been or are to be solicited on management's behalf, or any more limited group of such holders designated by the security holder if available or retrievable under the registrant's or its transfer agent's security holder data systems; and
(iii) The estimated cost of mailing a proxy statement, form of proxy or other communication to such holders, including to the extent known or reasonably available, the estimated costs of any bank, broker, and similar person through whom the registrant has solicited or intends to solicit beneficial owners in connection with the security holder meeting or action;
(2) Perform the acts set forth in either paragraphs (a)(2)(i) or (a)(2)(ii) of this section, at the registrant's or requesting security holder's option, as specified in paragraph (b) of this section:
(i) Send copies of any proxy statement, form of proxy, or other soliciting material, including a Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials (as described in § 240.14a-16), furnished by the security holder to the record holders, including banks, brokers, and similar entities, designated by the security holder. A sufficient number of copies must be sent to the banks, brokers, and similar entities for distribution to all beneficial owners designated by the security holder. The security holder may designate only record holders and/or beneficial owners who have not requested paper and/ or e-mail copies of the proxy statement. If the registrant has received affirmative written or implied consent to deliver a single proxy statement to security holders at a shared address in accordance with the procedures in § 240.14a-3(e)(1), a single copy of the proxy statement or Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials furnished by the security holder shall be sent to that address, provided that if multiple copies of the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials are furnished by the security holder for that address, the registrant shall deliver those copies in a single envelope to that address. The registrant shall send the security holder material with reasonable promptness after tender of the material to be sent, envelopes or other containers therefore, postage or payment for postage and other reasonable expenses of effecting such distribution. The registrant shall not be responsible for the content of the material; or
(ii) Deliver the following information to the requesting security holder within five business days of receipt of the request:
(A) A reasonably current list of the names, addresses and security positions of the record holders, including banks, brokers and similar entities holding securities in the same class or classes as holders which have been or are to be solicited on management's behalf, or any more limited group of such holders designated by the security holder if available or retrievable under the registrant's or its transfer agent's security holder data systems;
(B) The most recent list of names, addresses and security positions of beneficial owners as specified in § 240.14a-13(b), in the possession, or which subsequently comes into the possession, of the registrant;
(C) The names of security holders at a shared address that have consented
to delivery of a single copy of proxy materials to a shared address, if the registrant has received written or implied consent in accordance with § 240.14a-3(e)(1); and
(D) If the registrant has relied on § 240.14a-16, the names of security holders who have requested paper copies of the proxy materials for all meetings and the names of security holders who, as of the date that the registrant receives the request, have requested paper copies of the proxy materials only for the meeting to which the solicitation relates.
(iii) All security holder list information shall be in the form requested by the security holder to the extent that such form is available to the registrant without undue burden or expense. The registrant shall furnish the security holder with updated record holder information on a daily basis or, if not available on a daily basis, at the shortest reasonable intervals; provided, however, the registrant need not provide beneficial or record holder information more current than the record date for the meeting or action.
(b)(1) The requesting security holder shall have the options set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, and the registrant shall have corresponding obligations, if the registrant or general partner or sponsor is soliciting or intends to solicit with respect to:
(i) A proposal that is subject to § 240.13e-3;
(ii) A roll-up transaction as defined in Item 901(c) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.901(c) of this chapter) that involves an entity with securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
l
); or
(iii) A roll-up transaction as defined in Item 901(c) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.901(c) of this chapter) that involves a limited partnership, unless the transaction involves only:
(A) Partnerships whose investors will receive new securities or securities in another entity that are not reported under a transaction reporting plan declared effective before December 17, 1993 by the Commission under Section 11A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78k-1); or
(B) Partnerships whose investors' securities are reported under a transaction reporting plan declared effective before December 17, 1993 by the Commission under Section 11A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78k-1).
(2) With respect to all other requests pursuant to this section, the registrant shall have the option to either mail the security holder's material or furnish the security holder list as set forth in this section.
(c) At the time of a list request, the security holder making the request shall:
(1) If holding the registrant's securities through a nominee, provide the registrant with a statement by the nominee or other independent third party, or a copy of a current filing made with the Commission and furnished to the registrant, confirming such holder's beneficial ownership; and
(2) Provide the registrant with an affidavit, declaration, affirmation or other similar document provided for under applicable state law identifying the proposal or other corporate action that will be the subject of the security holder's solicitation or communication and attesting that:
(i) The security holder will not use the list information for any purpose other than to solicit security holders with respect to the same meeting or action by consent or authorization for which the registrant is soliciting or intends to solicit or to communicate with security holders with respect to a solicitation commenced by the registrant; and
(ii) The security holder will not disclose such information to any person other than a beneficial owner for whom the request was made and an employee or agent to the extent necessary to effectuate the communication or solicitation.
(d) The security holder shall not use the information furnished by the registrant pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section for any purpose other than to solicit security holders with respect to the same meeting or action by consent or authorization for which the registrant is soliciting or intends to solicit or to communicate with security holders with respect to a solicitation commenced by the registrant; or disclose such information to any person other than an employee, agent, or beneficial owner for whom a request was
made to the extent necessary to effectuate the communication or solicitation. The security holder shall return the information provided pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section and shall not retain any copies thereof or of any information derived from such information after the termination of the solicitation.
(e) The security holder shall reimburse the reasonable expenses incurred by the registrant in performing the acts requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.

# Note 1 to § 240.14a-7.
Reasonably prompt methods of distribution to security holders may be used instead of mailing. If an alternative distribution method is chosen, the costs of that method should be considered where necessary rather than the costs of mailing.

# Note 2 to § 240.14a-7
When providing the information required by § 240.14a-7(a)(1)(ii), if the registrant has received affirmative written or implied consent to delivery of a single copy of proxy materials to a shared address in accordance with § 240.14a-3(e)(1), it shall exclude from the number of record holders those to whom it does not have to deliver a separate proxy statement.
[57 FR 48292, Oct. 22, 1992, as amended at 59 FR 63684, Dec. 8, 1994; 61 FR 24657, May 15, 1996; 65 FR 65750, Nov. 2, 2000; 72 FR 4167, Jan. 29, 2007; 72 FR 42238, Aug. 1, 2007]
§ 240.14a-8
Shareholder proposals.
This section addresses when a company must include a shareholder's proposal in its proxy statement and identify the proposal in its form of proxy when the company holds an annual or special meeting of shareholders. In summary, in order to have your shareholder proposal included on a company's proxy card, and included along with any supporting statement in its proxy statement, you must be eligible and follow certain procedures. Under a few specific circumstances, the company is permitted to exclude your proposal, but only after submitting its reasons to the Commission. We structured this section in a question-and-answer format so that it is easier to understand. The references to “you” are to a shareholder seeking to submit the proposal.
(a)
Question 1:
What is a proposal? A shareholder proposal is your recommendation or requirement that the company and/or its board of directors take action, which you intend to present at a meeting of the company's shareholders. Your proposal should state as clearly as possible the course of action that you believe the company should follow. If your proposal is placed on the company's proxy card, the company must also provide in the form of proxy means for shareholders to specify by boxes a choice between approval or disapproval, or abstention. Unless otherwise indicated, the word “proposal” as used in this section refers both to your proposal, and to your corresponding statement in support of your proposal (if any).
(b)
Question 2:
Who is eligible to submit a proposal, and how do I demonstrate to the company that I am eligible? (1) To be eligible to submit a proposal, you must satisfy the following requirements:
(i) You must have continuously held:
(A) At least $2,000 in market value of the company's securities entitled to vote on the proposal for at least three years; or
(B) At least $15,000 in market value of the company's securities entitled to vote on the proposal for at least two years; or
(C) At least $25,000 in market value of the company's securities entitled to vote on the proposal for at least one year; and
(ii) You must provide the company with a written statement that you intend to continue to hold the requisite amount of securities, determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A) through (C) of this section, through the date of the shareholders' meeting for which the proposal is submitted; and
(iii) You must provide the company with a written statement that you are able to meet with the company in person or via teleconference no less than 10 calendar days, nor more than 30 calendar days, after submission of the shareholder proposal. You must include your contact information as well as business days and specific times that you are available to discuss the proposal with the company. You must identify times that are within the regular business hours of the company's principal executive offices. If these
hours are not disclosed in the company's proxy statement for the prior year's annual meeting, you must identify times that are between 9 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. in the time zone of the company's principal executive offices. If you elect to co-file a proposal, all co-filers must either:
(A) Agree to the same dates and times of availability, or
(B) Identify a single lead filer who will provide dates and times of the lead filer's availability to engage on behalf of all co-filers; and
(iv) If you use a representative to submit a shareholder proposal on your behalf, you must provide the company with written documentation that:
(A) Identifies the company to which the proposal is directed;
(B) Identifies the annual or special meeting for which the proposal is submitted;
(C) Identifies you as the proponent and identifies the person acting on your behalf as your representative;
(D) Includes your statement authorizing the designated representative to submit the proposal and otherwise act on your behalf;
(E) Identifies the specific topic of the proposal to be submitted;
(F) Includes your statement supporting the proposal; and
(G) Is signed and dated by you.
(v) The requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section shall not apply to shareholders that are entities so long as the representative's authority to act on the shareholder's behalf is apparent and self-evident such that a reasonable person would understand that the agent has authority to submit the proposal and otherwise act on the shareholder's behalf.
(vi) For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, you may not aggregate your holdings with those of another shareholder or group of shareholders to meet the requisite amount of securities necessary to be eligible to submit a proposal.
(2) One of the following methods must be used to demonstrate your eligibility to submit a proposal:
(i) If you are the registered holder of your securities, which means that your name appears in the company's records as a shareholder, the company can verify your eligibility on its own, although you will still have to provide the company with a written statement that you intend to continue to hold the requisite amount of securities, determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A) through (C) of this section, through the date of the meeting of shareholders.
(ii) If, like many shareholders, you are not a registered holder, the company likely does not know that you are a shareholder, or how many shares you own. In this case, at the time you submit your proposal, you must prove your eligibility to the company in one of two ways:
(A) The first way is to submit to the company a written statement from the “record” holder of your securities (usually a broker or bank) verifying that, at the time you submitted your proposal, you continuously held at least $2,000, $15,000, or $25,000 in market value of the company's securities entitled to vote on the proposal for at least three years, two years, or one year, respectively. You must also include your own written statement that you intend to continue to hold the requisite amount of securities, determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A) through (C) of this section, through the date of the shareholders' meeting for which the proposal is submitted; or
(B) The second way to prove ownership applies only if you were required to file, and filed, a Schedule 13D (§ 240.13d-101), Schedule 13G (§ 240.13d-102), Form 3 (§ 249.103 of this chapter), Form 4 (§ 249.104 of this chapter), and/or Form 5 (§ 249.105 of this chapter), or amendments to those documents or updated forms, demonstrating that you meet at least one of the share ownership requirements under paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A) through (C) of this section. If you have filed one or more of these documents with the SEC, you may demonstrate your eligibility to submit a proposal by submitting to the company:
(
1
) A copy of the schedule(s) and/or form(s), and any subsequent amendments reporting a change in your ownership level;
(
2
) Your written statement that you continuously held at least $2,000, $15,000, or $25,000 in market value of the
company's securities entitled to vote on the proposal for at least three years, two years, or one year, respectively; and
(
3
) Your written statement that you intend to continue to hold the requisite amount of securities, determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A) through (C) of this section, through the date of the company's annual or special meeting.
(c)
Question 3:
How many proposals may I submit? Each person may submit no more than one proposal, directly or indirectly, to a company for a particular shareholders' meeting. A person may not rely on the securities holdings of another person for the purpose of meeting the eligibility requirements and submitting multiple proposals for a particular shareholders' meeting.
(d)
Question 4:
How long can my proposal be? The proposal, including any accompanying supporting statement, may not exceed 500 words.
(e)
Question 5:
What is the deadline for submitting a proposal? (1) If you are submitting your proposal for the company's annual meeting, you can in most cases find the deadline in last year's proxy statement. However, if the company did not hold an annual meeting last year, or has changed the date of its meeting for this year more than 30 days from last year's meeting, you can usually find the deadline in one of the company's quarterly reports on Form 10-Q (§ 249.308a of this chapter), or in shareholder reports of investment companies under § 270.30d-1 of this chapter of the Investment Company Act of 1940. In order to avoid controversy, shareholders should submit their proposals by means, including electronic means, that permit them to prove the date of delivery.
(2) The deadline is calculated in the following manner if the proposal is submitted for a regularly scheduled annual meeting. The proposal must be received at the company's principal executive offices not less than 120 calendar days before the date of the company's proxy statement released to shareholders in connection with the previous year's annual meeting. However, if the company did not hold an annual meeting the previous year, or if the date of this year's annual meeting has been changed by more than 30 days from the date of the previous year's meeting, then the deadline is a reasonable time before the company begins to print and send its proxy materials.
(3) If you are submitting your proposal for a meeting of shareholders other than a regularly scheduled annual meeting, the deadline is a reasonable time before the company begins to print and send its proxy materials.
(f)
Question 6:
What if I fail to follow one of the eligibility or procedural requirements explained in answers to Questions 1 through 4 of this section? (1) The company may exclude your proposal, but only after it has notified you of the problem, and you have failed adequately to correct it. Within 14 calendar days of receiving your proposal, the company must notify you in writing of any procedural or eligibility deficiencies, as well as of the time frame for your response. Your response must be postmarked, or transmitted electronically, no later than 14 days from the date you received the company's notification. A company need not provide you such notice of a deficiency if the deficiency cannot be remedied, such as if you fail to submit a proposal by the company's properly determined deadline. If the company intends to exclude the proposal, it will later have to make a submission under § 240.14a-8 and provide you with a copy under Question 10 below, § 240.14a-8(j).
(2) If you fail in your promise to hold the required number of securities through the date of the meeting of shareholders, then the company will be permitted to exclude all of your proposals from its proxy materials for any meeting held in the following two calendar years.
(g)
Question 7:
Who has the burden of persuading the Commission or its staff that my proposal can be excluded? Except as otherwise noted, the burden is on the company to demonstrate that it is entitled to exclude a proposal.
(h)
Question 8:
Must I appear personally at the shareholders' meeting to present the proposal? (1) Either you, or your representative who is qualified under state law to present the proposal on your behalf, must attend the meeting to present the proposal. Whether you attend the meeting yourself or
send a qualified representative to the meeting in your place, you should make sure that you, or your representative, follow the proper state law procedures for attending the meeting and/or presenting your proposal.
(2) If the company holds its shareholder meeting in whole or in part via electronic media, and the company permits you or your representative to present your proposal via such media, then you may appear through electronic media rather than traveling to the meeting to appear in person.
(3) If you or your qualified representative fail to appear and present the proposal, without good cause, the company will be permitted to exclude all of your proposals from its proxy materials for any meetings held in the following two calendar years.
(i)
Question 9:
If I have complied with the procedural requirements, on what other bases may a company rely to exclude my proposal? (1) Improper under state law: If the proposal is not a proper subject for action by shareholders under the laws of the jurisdiction of the company's organization;

# Note to paragraph (
i

# )(1):
Depending on the subject matter, some proposals are not considered proper under state law if they would be binding on the company if approved by shareholders. In our experience, most proposals that are cast as recommendations or requests that the board of directors take specified action are proper under state law. Accordingly, we will assume that a proposal drafted as a recommendation or suggestion is proper unless the company demonstrates otherwise.
(2)
Violation of law:
If the proposal would, if implemented, cause the company to violate any state, federal, or foreign law to which it is subject;

# Note to paragraph (
i

# )(2):
We will not apply this basis for exclusion to permit exclusion of a proposal on grounds that it would violate foreign law if compliance with the foreign law would result in a violation of any state or federal law.
(3)
Violation of proxy rules:
If the proposal or supporting statement is contrary to any of the Commission's proxy rules, including § 240.14a-9, which prohibits materially false or misleading statements in proxy soliciting materials;
(4)
Personal grievance; special interest:
If the proposal relates to the redress of a personal claim or grievance against the company or any other person, or if it is designed to result in a benefit to you, or to further a personal interest, which is not shared by the other shareholders at large;
(5)
Relevance:
If the proposal relates to operations which account for less than 5 percent of the company's total assets at the end of its most recent fiscal year, and for less than 5 percent of its net earnings and gross sales for its most recent fiscal year, and is not otherwise significantly related to the company's business;
(6)
Absence of power/authority:
If the company would lack the power or authority to implement the proposal;
(7)
Management functions:
If the proposal deals with a matter relating to the company's ordinary business operations;
(8)
Director elections:
If the proposal:
(i) Would disqualify a nominee who is standing for election;
(ii) Would remove a director from office before his or her term expired;
(iii) Questions the competence, business judgment, or character of one or more nominees or directors;
(iv) Seeks to include a specific individual in the company's proxy materials for election to the board of directors; or
(v) Otherwise could affect the outcome of the upcoming election of directors.
(9)
Conflicts with company's proposal:
If the proposal directly conflicts with one of the company's own proposals to be submitted to shareholders at the same meeting;

# Note to paragraph (
i

# )(9):
A company's submission to the Commission under this section should specify the points of conflict with the company's proposal.
(10)
Substantially implemented:
If the company has already substantially implemented the proposal;

# Note to paragraph (
i

# )(10):
A company may exclude a shareholder proposal that would provide an advisory vote or seek future advisory votes to approve the compensation of executives as disclosed pursuant to Item 402 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.402 of this chapter) or any successor to Item 402 (a
“say-on-pay vote”) or that relates to the frequency of say-on-pay votes, provided that in the most recent shareholder vote required by § 240.14a-21(b) of this chapter a single year (
i.e.,
one, two, or three years) received approval of a majority of votes cast on the matter and the company has adopted a policy on the frequency of say-on-pay votes that is consistent with the choice of the majority of votes cast in the most recent shareholder vote required by § 240.14a-21(b) of this chapter.
(11)
Duplication:
If the proposal substantially duplicates another proposal previously submitted to the company by another proponent that will be included in the company's proxy materials for the same meeting;
(12)
Resubmissions.
If the proposal addresses substantially the same subject matter as a proposal, or proposals, previously included in the company's proxy materials within the preceding five calendar years if the most recent vote occurred within the preceding three calendar years and the most recent vote was:
(i) Less than 5 percent of the votes cast if previously voted on once;
(ii) Less than 15 percent of the votes cast if previously voted on twice; or
(iii) Less than 25 percent of the votes cast if previously voted on three or more times.
(13)
Specific amount of dividends:
If the proposal relates to specific amounts of cash or stock dividends.
(j)
Question 10:
What procedures must the company follow if it intends to exclude my proposal? (1) If the company intends to exclude a proposal from its proxy materials, it must file its reasons with the Commission no later than 80 calendar days before it files its definitive proxy statement and form of proxy with the Commission. The company must simultaneously provide you with a copy of its submission. The Commission staff may permit the company to make its submission later than 80 days before the company files its definitive proxy statement and form of proxy, if the company demonstrates good cause for missing the deadline.
(2) The company must file six paper copies of the following:
(i) The proposal;
(ii) An explanation of why the company believes that it may exclude the proposal, which should, if possible, refer to the most recent applicable authority, such as prior Division letters issued under the rule; and
(iii) A supporting opinion of counsel when such reasons are based on matters of state or foreign law.
(k)
Question 11:
May I submit my own statement to the Commission responding to the company's arguments?
Yes, you may submit a response, but it is not required. You should try to submit any response to us, with a copy to the company, as soon as possible after the company makes its submission. This way, the Commission staff will have time to consider fully your submission before it issues its response. You should submit six paper copies of your response.
(l)
Question 12:
If the company includes my shareholder proposal in its proxy materials, what information about me must it include along with the proposal itself?
(1) The company's proxy statement must include your name and address, as well as the number of the company's voting securities that you hold. However, instead of providing that information, the company may instead include a statement that it will provide the information to shareholders promptly upon receiving an oral or written request.
(2) The company is not responsible for the contents of your proposal or supporting statement.
(m)
Question 13:
What can I do if the company includes in its proxy statement reasons why it believes shareholders should not vote in favor of my proposal, and I disagree with some of its statements?
(1) The company may elect to include in its proxy statement reasons why it believes shareholders should vote against your proposal. The company is allowed to make arguments reflecting its own point of view, just as you may express your own point of view in your proposal's supporting statement.
(2) However, if you believe that the company's opposition to your proposal contains materially false or misleading statements that may violate our anti-fraud rule, § 240.14a-9, you should promptly send to the Commission staff and the company a letter explaining the reasons for your view, along with a
copy of the company's statements opposing your proposal. To the extent possible, your letter should include specific factual information demonstrating the inaccuracy of the company's claims. Time permitting, you may wish to try to work out your differences with the company by yourself before contacting the Commission staff.
(3) We require the company to send you a copy of its statements opposing your proposal before it sends its proxy materials, so that you may bring to our attention any materially false or misleading statements, under the following timeframes:
(i) If our no-action response requires that you make revisions to your proposal or supporting statement as a condition to requiring the company to include it in its proxy materials, then the company must provide you with a copy of its opposition statements no later than 5 calendar days after the company receives a copy of your revised proposal; or
(ii) In all other cases, the company must provide you with a copy of its opposition statements no later than 30 calendar days before its files definitive copies of its proxy statement and form of proxy under § 240.14a-6.
[63 FR 29119, May 28, 1998; 63 FR 50622, 50623, Sept. 22, 1998, as amended at 72 FR 4168, Jan. 29, 2007; 72 FR 70456, Dec. 11, 2007; 73 FR 977, Jan. 4, 2008; 76 FR 6045, Feb. 2, 2011; 75 FR 56782, Sept. 16, 2010; 85 FR 70294, Nov. 4, 2020; 90 FR 9689, Feb. 18, 2025]
§ 240.14a-9
False or misleading statements.
(a) No solicitation subject to this regulation shall be made by means of any proxy statement, form of proxy, notice of meeting or other communication, written or oral, containing any statement which, at the time and in the light of the circumstances under which it is made, is false or misleading with respect to any material fact, or which omits to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein not false or misleading or necessary to correct any statement in any earlier communication with respect to the solicitation of a proxy for the same meeting or subject matter which has become false or misleading.
(b) The fact that a proxy statement, form of proxy or other soliciting material has been filed with or examined by the Commission shall not be deemed a finding by the Commission that such material is accurate or complete or not false or misleading, or that the Commission has passed upon the merits of or approved any statement contained therein or any matter to be acted upon by security holders. No representation contrary to the foregoing shall be made.
(c) No nominee, nominating shareholder or nominating shareholder group, or any member thereof, shall cause to be included in a registrant's proxy materials, either pursuant to the Federal proxy rules, an applicable state or foreign law provision, or a registrant's governing documents as they relate to including shareholder nominees for director in a registrant's proxy materials, include in a notice on Schedule 14N (§ 240.14n-101), or include in any other related communication, any statement which, at the time and in the light of the circumstances under which it is made, is false or misleading with respect to any material fact, or which omits to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein not false or misleading or necessary to correct any statement in any earlier communication with respect to a solicitation for the same meeting or subject matter which has become false or misleading.

# Note:
The following are some examples of what, depending upon particular facts and circumstances, may be misleading within the meaning of this section.
a. Predictions as to specific future market values.
b. Material which directly or indirectly impugns character, integrity or personal reputation, or directly or indirectly makes charges concerning improper, illegal or immoral conduct or associations, without factual foundation.
c. Failure to so identify a proxy statement, form of proxy and other soliciting material as to clearly distinguish it from the soliciting material of any other person or persons soliciting for the same meeting or subject matter.
d. Claims made prior to a meeting regarding the results of a solicitation.
[31 FR 212, Jan. 7, 1966, as amended at 41 FR 19933, May 14, 1976; 44 FR 38815, July 2, 1979; 44 FR 68456, Nov. 29, 1979; 75 FR 56782, Sept. 16, 2010; 85 FR 55155, Sept. 3, 2020; 87 FR 43196, July 19, 2022]
§ 240.14a-10
Prohibition of certain solicitations.
No person making a solicitation which is subject to §§ 240.14a-1 to 240.14a-10 shall solicit:
(a) Any undated or postdated proxy; or
(b) Any proxy which provides that it shall be deemed to be dated as of any date subsequent to the date on which it is signed by the security holder.
[17 FR 11434, Dec. 18, 1952]
§ 240.14a-12
Solicitation before furnishing a proxy statement.
(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of § 240.14a-3(a), a solicitation may be made before furnishing security holders with a proxy statement meeting the requirements of § 240.14a-3(a) if:
(1) Each written communication includes:
(i) The identity of the participants in the solicitation (as defined in Instruction 3 to Item 4 of Schedule 14A (§ 240.14a-101)) and a description of their direct or indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, or a prominent legend in clear, plain language advising security holders where they can obtain that information; and
(ii) A prominent legend in clear, plain language advising security holders to read the proxy statement when it is available because it contains important information. The legend also must explain to investors that they can get the proxy statement, and any other relevant documents, for free at the Commission's web site and describe which documents are available free from the participants; and
(2) A definitive proxy statement meeting the requirements of § 240.14a-3(a) is sent or given to security holders solicited in reliance on this section before or at the same time as the forms of proxy, consent or authorization are furnished to or requested from security holders.
(b) Any soliciting material published, sent or given to security holders in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section must be filed with the Commission no later than the date the material is first published, sent or given to security holders. Three copies of the material must at the same time be filed with, or mailed for filing to, each national securities exchange upon which any class of securities of the registrant is listed and registered. The soliciting material must include a cover page in the form set forth in Schedule 14A (§ 240.14a-101) and the appropriate box on the cover page must be marked. Soliciting material in connection with a registered offering is required to be filed only under § 230.424 or § 230.425 of this chapter, and will be deemed filed under this section.
(c) Solicitations by any person or group of persons for the purpose of opposing a solicitation subject to this regulation by any other person or group of persons with respect to the election or removal of directors at any annual or special meeting of security holders also are subject to the following provisions:
(1)
Application of this rule to annual report to security holders.
Notwithstanding the provisions of § 240.14a-3 (b) and (c), any portion of the annual report to security holders referred to in § 240.14a-3(b) that comments upon or refers to any solicitation subject to this rule, or to any participant in the solicitation, other than the solicitation by the management, must be filed with the Commission as proxy material subject to this regulation. This must be filed in electronic format unless an exemption is available under Rules 201 or 202 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.201 or § 232.202 of this chapter).
(2)
Use of reprints or reproductions.
In any solicitation subject to this § 240.14a-12(c), soliciting material that includes, in whole or part, any reprints or reproductions of any previously published material must:
(i) State the name of the author and publication, the date of prior publication, and identify any person who is quoted without being named in the previously published material.
(ii) Except in the case of a public or official document or statement, state
whether or not the consent of the author and publication has been obtained to the use of the previously published material as proxy soliciting material.
(iii) If any participant using the previously published material, or anyone on his or her behalf, paid, directly or indirectly, for the preparation or prior publication of the previously published material, or has made or proposes to make any payments or give any other consideration in connection with the publication or republication of the material, state the circumstances.

# Instruction 1 to § 240.14
a

# -12.
If paper filing is permitted, file eight copies of the soliciting material with the Commission, except that only three copies of the material specified by § 240.14a-12(c)(1) need be filed.

# Instruction 2 to § 240.14
a

# -12.
Any communications made under this section after the definitive proxy statement is on file but before it is disseminated also must specify that the proxy statement is publicly available and the anticipated date of dissemination.

# Instruction 3 to § 240.14
a

# -12.
Inclusion of a nominee pursuant to an applicable state or foreign law provision or a registrant's governing documentsas they relate to the inclusion of shareholder director nominees in the registrant's proxy materials, or solicitations by a nominating shareholder or nominating shareholder group that are made in connection with that nomination constitute solicitations in opposition subject to § 240.14a-12(c), except for purposes of § 240.14a-6(a).
[64 FR 61456, Nov. 10, 1999, as amended at 72 FR 4168, Jan. 29, 2007; 75 FR 56787, Sept. 16, 2010; 90 FR 9689, Feb. 18, 2025]
§ 240.14a-13
Obligation of registrants in communicating with beneficial owners.
(a) If the registrant knows that securities of any class entitled to vote at a meeting (or by written consents or authorizations if no meeting is held) with respect to which the registrant intends to solicit proxies, consents or authorizations are held of record by a broker, dealer, voting trustee, bank, association, or other entity that exercises fiduciary powers in nominee name or otherwise, the registrant shall:
(1) By first class mail or other equally prompt means:
(i) Inquire of each such record holder:
(A) Whether other persons are the beneficial owners of such securities and if so, the number of copies of the proxy and other soliciting material necessary to supply such material to such beneficial owners;
(B) In the case of an annual (or special meeting in lieu of the annual) meeting, or written consents in lieu of such meeting, at which directors are to be elected, the number of copies of the annual report to security holders necessary to supply such report to beneficial owners to whom such reports are to be distributed by such record holder or its nominee and not by the registrant;
(C) If the record holder has an obligation under § 240.14b-1(b)(3) or § 240.14b-2(b)(4)(ii) and (iii), whether an agent has been designated to act on its behalf in fulfilling such obligation and, if so, the name and address of such agent; and
(D) Whether it holds the registrant's securities on behalf of any respondent bank and, if so, the name and address of each such respondent bank; and
(ii) Indicate to each such record holder:
(A) Whether the registrant, pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, intends to distribute the annual report to security holders to beneficial owners of its securities whose names, addresses and securities positions are disclosed pursuant to § 240.14b-1(b)(3) or § 240.14b-2(b)(4)(ii) and (iii);
(B) The record date; and
(C) At the option of the registrant, any employee benefit plan established by an affiliate of the registrant that holds securities of the registrant that the registrant elects to treat as exempt employee benefit plan securities;
(2) Upon receipt of a record holder's or respondent bank's response indicating, pursuant to § 240.14b-2(b)(1)(i), the names and addresses of its respondent banks, within one business day after the date such response is received, make an inquiry of and give notification to each such respondent bank in the same manner required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section;
Provided, however,
the inquiry required by paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section shall not cover beneficial owners of exempt employee benefit plan securities;
(3) Make the inquiry required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section at least 20 business days prior to the record
date of the meeting of security holders, or
(i) If such inquiry is impracticable 20 business days prior to the record date of a special meeting, as many days before the record date of such meeting as is practicable or,
(ii) If consents or authorizations are solicited, and such inquiry is impracticable 20 business days before the earliest date on which they may be used to effect corporate action, as many days before that date as is practicable, or
(iii) At such later time as the rules of a national securities exchange on which the class of securities in question is listed may permit for good cause shown;
Provided, however,
That if a record holder or respondent bank has informed the registrant that a designated office(s) or department(s) is to receive such inquiries, the inquiry shall be made to such designated office(s) or department(s); and
(4) Supply, in a timely manner, each record holder and respondent bank of whom the inquiries required by paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section are made with copies of the proxy, other proxy soliciting material, and/or the annual report to security holders, in such quantities, assembled in such form and at such place(s), as the record holder or respondent bank may reasonably request in order to send such material to each beneficial owner of securities who is to be furnished with such material by the record holder or respondent bank; and
(5) Upon the request of any record holder or respondent bank that is supplied with proxy soliciting material and/or annual reports to security holders pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section, pay its reasonable expenses for completing the sending of such material to beneficial owners.

# Note 1:
If the registrant's list of security holders indicates that some of its securities are registered in the name of a clearing agency registered pursuant to Section 17A of the Act (e.g., “Cede
Co.,” nominee for the Depository Trust Company), the registrant shall make appropriate inquiry of the clearing agency and thereafter of the participants in such clearing agency who may hold on behalf of a beneficial owner or respondent bank, and shall comply with the above paragraph with respect to any such participant (
see
§ 240.14a-1(i)).

# Note 2:
The attention of registrants is called to the fact that each broker, dealer, bank, association, and other entity that exercises fiduciary powers has an obligation pursuant to § 240.14b-1 and § 240.14b-2 (except as provided therein with respect to exempt employee benefit plan securities held in nominee name) and, with respect to brokers and dealers, applicable self-regulatory organization requirements to obtain and forward, within the time periods prescribed therein, (a) proxies (or in lieu thereof requests for voting instructions) and proxy soliciting materials to beneficial owners on whose behalf it holds securities, and (b) annual reports to security holders to beneficial owners on whose behalf it holds securities, unless the registrant has notified the record holder or respondent bank that it has assumed responsibility to send such material to beneficial owners whose names, addresses, and securities positions are disclosed pursuant to § 240.14b-1(b)(3) and § 240.14b-2(b)(4)(ii) and (iii).

# Note 3:
The attention of registrants is called to the fact that registrants have an obligation, pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, to cause proxies (or in lieu thereof requests for voting instructions), proxy soliciting material and annual reports to security holders to be furnished, in a timely manner, to beneficial owners of exempt employee benefit plan securities.
(b) Any registrant requesting pursuant to § 240.14b-1(b)(3) or § 240.14b-2(b)(4)(ii) and (iii) a list of names, addresses and securities positions of beneficial owners of its securities who either have consented or have not objected to disclosure of such information shall:
(1) By first class mail or other equally prompt means, inquire of each record holder and each respondent bank identified to the registrant pursuant to § 240.14b-2(b)(4)(i) whether such record holder or respondent bank holds the registrant's securities on behalf of any respondent banks and, if so, the name and address of each such respondent bank;
(2) Request such list to be compiled as of a date no earlier than five business days after the date the registrant's request is received by the record holder or respondent bank;
Provided, however,
That if the record holder or respondent bank has informed the registrant that a designated office(s) or department(s) is to receive such requests, the request shall be made to
such designated office(s) or department(s);
(3) Make such request to the following persons that hold the registrant's securities on behalf of beneficial owners: all brokers, dealers, banks, associations and other entities that exercises fiduciary powers;
Provided however,
such request shall not cover beneficial owners of exempt employee benefit plan securities as defined in § 240.14a-1(d)(1); and, at the option of the registrant, such request may give notice of any employee benefit plan established by an affiliate of the registrant that holds securities of the registrant that the registrant elects to treat as exempt employee benefit plan securities;
(4) Use the information furnished in response to such request exclusively for purposes of corporate communications; and
(5) Upon the request of any record holder or respondent bank to whom such request is made, pay the reasonable expenses, both direct and indirect, of providing beneficial owner information.

# Note:
A registrant will be deemed to have satisfied its obligations under paragraph (b) of this section by requesting consenting and non-objecting beneficial owner lists from a designated agent acting on behalf of the record holder or respondent bank and paying to that designated agent the reasonable expenses of providing the beneficial owner information.
(c) A registrant, at its option, may send its annual report to security holders to the beneficial owners whose identifying information is provided by record holders and respondent banks, pursuant to § 240.14b-1(b)(3) or § 240.14b-2(b)(4)(ii) and (iii), provided that such registrant notifies the record holders and respondent banks, at the time it makes the inquiry required by paragraph (a) of this section, that the registrant will send the annual report to security holders to the beneficial owners so identified.
(d) If a registrant solicits proxies, consents or authorizations from record holders and respondent banks who hold securities on behalf of beneficial owners, the registrant shall cause proxies (or in lieu thereof requests or voting instructions), proxy soliciting material and annual reports to security holders to be furnished, in a timely manner, to beneficial owners of exempt employee benefit plan securities.
[51 FR 44276, Dec. 9, 1986; 52 FR 2220, Jan. 21, 1987, as amended at 52 FR 23648, June 24, 1987; 53 FR 16405, May 9, 1988; 57 FR 1099, Jan. 10, 1992; 72 FR 4168, Jan. 29, 2007]
§ 240.14a-14
Modified or superseded documents.
(a) Any statement contained in a document incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference shall be deemed to be modified or superseded, for purposes of the proxy statement, to the extent that a statement contained in the proxy statement or in any other subsequently filed document that also is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference modifies or replaces such statement.
(b) The modifying or superseding statement may, but need not, state it has modified or superseded a prior statement or include any other information set forth in the document that is not so modified or superseded. The making of a modifying or superseding statement shall not be deemed an admission that the modified or superseded statement, when made, constituted an untrue statement of a material fact, an omission to state a material fact necessary to make a statement not misleading, or the employment of a manipulative, deceptive, or fraudulent device, contrivance, scheme, transaction, act, practice, course of business or artifice to defraud, as those terms are used in the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“the Act”), the Investment Company Act of 1940, or the rules and regulations thereunder.
(c) Any statement so modified shall not be deemed in its unmodified form to constitute part of the proxy statement for purposes of the Act. Any statement so superseded shall not be deemed to constitute a part of the proxy statement for purposes of the Act.
[52 FR 21936, June 10, 1987, as amended at 73 FR 17814, Apr. 1, 2008]
§ 240.14a-15
Differential and contingent compensation in connection with roll-up transactions.
(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to receive compensation for soliciting proxies, consents, or authorizations directly from security holders in connection with a roll-up transaction as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, if the compensation is:
(1) Based on whether the solicited proxy, consent, or authorization either approves or disapproves the proposed roll-up transaction; or
(2) Contingent on the approval, disapproval, or completion of the roll-up transaction.
(b) This section is applicable to a roll-up transaction as defined in Item 901(c) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.901(c) of this chapter), except for a transaction involving only:
(1) Finite-life entities that are not limited partnerships;
(2) Partnerships whose investors will receive new securities or securities in another entity that are not reported under a transaction reporting plan declared effective before December 17, 1993 by the Commission under section 11A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78k-1); or
(3) Partnerships whose investors' securities are reported under a transaction reporting plan declared effective before December 17, 1993 by the Commission under section 11A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78k-1).
[59 FR 63684, Dec. 8, 1994]
§ 240.14a-16
Internet availability of proxy materials.
(a)(1) A registrant shall furnish a proxy statement pursuant to § 240.14a-3(a), or an annual report to security holders pursuant to § 240.14a-3(b), to a security holder by sending the security holder a Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, as described in this section, 40 calendar days or more prior to the security holder meeting date, or if no meeting is to be held, 40 calendar days or more prior to the date the votes, consents or authorizations may be used to effect the corporate action, and complying with all other requirements of this section.
(2) Unless the registrant chooses to follow the full set delivery option set forth in paragraph (n) of this section, it must provide the record holder or respondent bank with all information listed in paragraph (d) of this section in sufficient time for the record holder or respondent bank to prepare, print and send a Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials to beneficial owners at least 40 calendar days before the meeting date.
(b)(1) All materials identified in the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials must be publicly accessible, free of charge, at the Web site address specified in the notice on or before the time that the notice is sent to the security holder and such materials must remain available on that Web site through the conclusion of the meeting of security holders.
(2) All additional soliciting materials sent to security holders or made public after the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials has been sent must be made publicly accessible at the specified Web site address no later than the day on which such materials are first sent to security holders or made public.
(3) The Web site address relied upon for compliance under this section may not be the address of the Commission's electronic filing system.
(4) The registrant must provide security holders with a means to execute a proxy as of the time the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials is first sent to security holders.
(c) The materials must be presented on the Web site in a format, or formats, convenient for both reading online and printing on paper.
(d) The Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials must contain the following:
(1) A prominent legend in bold-face type that states “Important Notice Regarding the Availability of Proxy Materials for the Shareholder Meeting To Be Held on [insert meeting date]”;
(2) An indication that the communication is not a form for voting and presents only an overview of the more complete proxy materials, which contain important information and are available on the Internet or by mail, and encouraging a security holder to access and review the proxy materials before voting;
(3) The Internet Web site address where the proxy materials are available;
(4) Instructions regarding how a security holder may request a paper or e-mail copy of the proxy materials at no charge, including the date by which they should make the request to facilitate timely delivery, and an indication that they will not otherwise receive a paper or e-mail copy;
(5) The date, time, and location of the meeting, or if corporate action is to be taken by written consent, the earliest date on which the corporate action may be effected;
(6) A clear and impartial identification of each separate matter intended to be acted on and the soliciting person's recommendations, if any, regarding those matters, but no supporting statements;
(7) A list of the materials being made available at the specified Web site;
(8) A toll-free telephone number, an e-mail address, and an Internet Web site where the security holder can request a copy of the proxy statement, annual report to security holders, and form of proxy, relating to all of the registrant's future security holder meetings and for the particular meeting to which the proxy materials being furnished relate;
(9) Any control/identification numbers that the security holder needs to access his or her form of proxy;
(10) Instructions on how to access the form of proxy, provided that such instructions do not enable a security holder to execute a proxy without having access to the proxy statement and, if required by § 240.14a-3(b), the annual report to security holders; and
(11) Information on how to obtain directions to be able to attend the meeting and vote in person.
(e)(1) The Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials may not be incorporated into, or combined with, another document, except that it may be incorporated into, or combined with, a notice of security holder meeting required under state law, unless state law prohibits such incorporation or combination.
(2) The Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials may contain only the information required by paragraph (d) of this section and any additional information required to be included in a notice of security holders meeting under state law; provided that:
(i) The registrant must revise the information on the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, including any title to the document, to reflect the fact that:
(A) The registrant is conducting a consent solicitation rather than a proxy solicitation; or
(B) The registrant is not soliciting proxy or consent authority, but is furnishing an information statement pursuant to § 240.14c-2; and
(ii) The registrant may include a statement on the Notice to educate security holders that no personal information other than the identification or control number is necessary to execute a proxy.
(f)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials must be sent separately from other types of security holder communications and may not accompany any other document or materials, including the form of proxy.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the registrant may accompany the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials with:
(i) A pre-addressed, postage-paid reply card for requesting a copy of the proxy materials;
(ii) A copy of any notice of security holder meeting required under state law if that notice is not combined with the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials;
(iii) In the case of an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, the company's prospectus, a summary prospectus that satisfies the requirements of § 230.498(b) or § 230.498A(b) or (c) of this chapter, a Notice under § 270.30e-3 of this chapter, or a report that is required to be transmitted to stockholders by section 30(e) of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-29(e)) and its implementing regulations (
e.g.,
§§ 270.30e-1 and 270.30e-2 of this chapter); and
(iv) An explanation of the reasons for a registrant's use of the rules detailed
in this section and the process of receiving and reviewing the proxy materials and voting as detailed in this section.
(g)
Plain English.
(1) To enhance the readability of the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, the registrant must use plain English principles in the organization, language, and design of the notice.
(2) The registrant must draft the language in the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials so that, at a minimum, it substantially complies with each of the following plain English writing principles:
(i) Short sentences;
(ii) Definite, concrete, everyday words;
(iii) Active voice;
(iv) Tabular presentation or bullet lists for complex material, whenever possible;
(v) No legal jargon or highly technical business terms; and
(vi) No multiple negatives.
(3) In designing the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, the registrant may include pictures, logos, or similar design elements so long as the design is not misleading and the required information is clear.
(h) The registrant may send a form of proxy to security holders if:
(1) At least 10 calendar days or more have passed since the date it first sent the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials to security holders and the form of proxy is accompanied by a copy of the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials; or
(2) The form of proxy is accompanied or preceded by a copy, via the same medium, of the proxy statement and any annual report to security holders that is required by § 240.14a-3(b).
(i) The registrant must file a form of the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials with the Commission pursuant to § 240.14a-6(b) no later than the date that the registrant first sends the notice to security holders.
(j)
Obligation to provide copies.
(1) The registrant must send, at no cost to the record holder or respondent bank and by U.S. first class mail or other reasonably prompt means, a paper copy of the proxy statement, information statement, annual report to security holders, and form of proxy (to the extent each of those documents is applicable) to any record holder or respondent bank requesting such a copy within three business days after receiving a request for a paper copy.
(2) The registrant must send, at no cost to the record holder or respondent bank and via e-mail, an electronic copy of the proxy statement, information statement, annual report to security holders, and form of proxy (to the extent each of those documents is applicable) to any record holder or respondent bank requesting such a copy within three business days after receiving a request for an electronic copy via e-mail.
(3) The registrant must provide copies of the proxy materials for one year after the conclusion of the meeting or corporate action to which the proxy materials relate, provided that, if the registrant receives the request after the conclusion of the meeting or corporate action to which the proxy materials relate, the registrant need not send copies via First Class mail and need not respond to such request within three business days.
(4) The registrant must maintain records of security holder requests to receive materials in paper or via e-mail for future solicitations and must continue to provide copies of the materials to a security holder who has made such a request until the security holder revokes such request.
(k)
Security holder information.
(1) A registrant or its agent shall maintain the Internet Web site on which it posts its proxy materials in a manner that does not infringe on the anonymity of a person accessing such Web site.
(2) The registrant and its agents shall not use any e-mail address obtained from a security holder solely for the purpose of requesting a copy of proxy materials pursuant to paragraph (j) of this section for any purpose other than to send a copy of those materials to that security holder. The registrant shall not disclose such information to any person other than an employee or agent to the extent necessary to send a copy of the proxy materials pursuant to paragraph (j) of this section.
(l) A person other than the registrant may solicit proxies pursuant to the
conditions imposed on registrants by this section, provided that:
(1) A soliciting person other than the registrant is required to provide copies of its proxy materials only to security holders to whom it has sent a Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials; and
(2) A soliciting person other than the registrant must send its Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials by the later of:
(i) 40 Calendar days prior to the security holder meeting date or, if no meeting is to be held, 40 calendar days prior to the date the votes, consents, or authorizations may be used to effect the corporate action; or
(ii) The date on which it files its definitive proxy statement with the Commission, provided its preliminary proxy statement is filed no later than 10 calendar days after the date that the registrant files its definitive proxy statement.
(3)
Content of the soliciting person's Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials.
(i) If, at the time a soliciting person other than the registrant sends its Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, the soliciting person is not aware of all matters on the registrant's agenda for the meeting of security holders, the soliciting person's Notice on Internet Availability of Proxy Materials must provide a clear and impartial identification of each separate matter on the agenda to the extent known by the soliciting person at that time. The soliciting person's notice also must include a clear statement indicating that there may be additional agenda items of which the soliciting person is not aware and that the security holder cannot direct a vote for those items on the soliciting person's proxy card provided at that time.
(ii) If a soliciting person other than the registrant sends a form of proxy not containing all matters intended to be acted upon, the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials must clearly state whether execution of the form of proxy will invalidate a security holder's prior vote on matters not presented on the form of proxy.
(m) This section shall not apply to a proxy solicitation in connection with a business combination transaction, as defined in § 230.165 of this chapter, as well as transactions for cash consideration requiring disclosure under Item 14 of § 240.14a-101.
(n)
Full Set Delivery Option.
(1) For purposes of this paragraph (n), the term full set of proxy materials shall include all of the following documents:
(i) A copy of the proxy statement;
(ii) A copy of the annual report to security holders if required by § 240.14a-3(b); and
(iii) A form of proxy.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraphs (e) and (f)(2) of this section, a registrant or other soliciting person may:
(i) Accompany the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials with a full set of proxy materials; or
(ii) Send a full set of proxy materials without a Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials if all of the information required in a Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials pursuant to paragraphs (d) and (n)(4) of this section is incorporated in the proxy statement and the form of proxy.
(3) A registrant or other soliciting person that sends a full set of proxy materials to a security holder pursuant to this paragraph (n) need not comply with
(i) The timing provisions of paragraphs (a) and (l)(2) of this section; and
(ii) The obligation to provide copies pursuant to paragraph (j) of this section.
(4) A registrant or other soliciting person that sends a full set of proxy materials to a security holder pursuant to this paragraph (n) need not include in its Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, proxy statement, or form of proxy the following disclosures:
(i) Instructions regarding the nature of the communication pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section;
(ii) Instructions on how to request a copy of the proxy materials; and
(iii) Instructions on how to access the form of proxy pursuant to paragraph (d)(10) of this section.
[72 FR 4168, Jan. 29, 2007, as amended at 72 FR 42238, Aug. 1, 2007; 72 FR 42238, Aug. 1, 2007; 73 FR 17814, Apr. 1, 2008; 75 FR 9081, Feb. 26, 2010; 83 FR 29204, June 22, 2018; 85 FR 26101, May 1, 2020]
§ 240.14a-17
Electronic shareholder forums.
(a) A shareholder, registrant, or third party acting on behalf of a shareholder or registrant may establish, maintain, or operate an electronic shareholder forum to facilitate interaction among the registrant's shareholders and between the registrant and its shareholders as the shareholder or registrant deems appropriate. Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the forum must comply with the federal securities laws, including Section 14(a) of the Act and its associated regulations, other applicable federal laws, applicable state laws, and the registrant's governing documents.
(b) No shareholder, registrant, or third party acting on behalf of a shareholder or registrant, by reason of establishing, maintaining, or operating an electronic shareholder forum, will be liable under the federal securities laws for any statement or information provided by another person to the electronic shareholder forum. Nothing in this section prevents or alters the application of the federal securities laws, including the provisions for liability for fraud, deception, or manipulation, or other applicable federal and state laws to the person or persons that provide a statement or information to an electronic shareholder forum.
(c) Reliance on the exemption in § 240.14a-2(b)(6) to participate in an electronic shareholder forum does not eliminate a person's eligibility to solicit proxies after the date that the exemption in § 240.14a-2(b)(6) is no longer available, or is no longer being relied upon, provided that any such solicitation is conducted in accordance with this regulation.
[73 FR 4458, Jan. 25, 2008]
§ 240.14a-18
Disclosure regarding nominating shareholders and nominees submitted for inclusion in a registrant's proxy materials pursuant to applicable state or foreign law, or a registrant's governing documents.
To have a nominee included in a registrant's proxy materials pursuant to a procedure set forth under applicable state or foreign law, or the registrant's governing documents addressing the inclusion of shareholder director nominees in the registrant's proxy materials, the nominating shareholder or nominating shareholder group must provide notice to the registrant of its intent to do so on a Schedule 14N (§ 240.14n-101) and file that notice, including the required disclosure, with the Commission on the date first transmitted to the registrant. This notice shall be postmarked or transmitted electronically to the registrant by the date specified by the registrant's advance notice provision or, where no such provision is in place, no later than 120 calendar days before the anniversary of the date that the registrant mailed its proxy materials for the prior year's annual meeting, except that, if the registrant did not hold an annual meeting during the prior year, or if the date of the meeting has changed by more than 30 calendar days from the prior year, then the nominating shareholder or nominating shareholder group must provide notice a reasonable time before the registrant mails its proxy materials, as specified by the registrant in a Form 8-K (§ 249.308 of this chapter) filed pursuant to Item 5.08 of Form 8-K.

# Instruction to § 240.14
a

# -18.
The registrant is not responsible for any information provided in the Schedule 14N (§ 240.14n-101) by the nominating shareholder or nominating shareholder group, which is submitted as required by this section or otherwise provided by the nominating shareholder or nominating shareholder group that is included in the registrant's proxy materials.
[75 FR 56787, Sept. 16, 2010]
§ 240.14a-19
Solicitation of proxies in support of director nominees other than the registrant's nominees.
(a) No person may solicit proxies in support of director nominees other than the registrant's nominees unless such person:
(1) Provides notice to the registrant in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section unless the information required by paragraph (b) of this section has been provided in a preliminary or definitive proxy statement previously filed by such person;
(2) Files a definitive proxy statement with the Commission in accordance with § 240.14a-6(b) by the later of:
(i) 25 calendar days prior to the security holder meeting date; or
(ii) Five (5) calendar days after the date that the registrant files its definitive proxy statement; and
(3) Solicits the holders of shares representing at least 67% of the voting power of shares entitled to vote on the election of directors and includes a statement to that effect in the proxy statement or form of proxy.
(b) The notice shall:
(1) Be postmarked or transmitted electronically to the registrant at its principal executive office no later than 60 calendar days prior to the anniversary of the previous year's annual meeting date, except that, if the registrant did not hold an annual meeting during the previous year, or if the date of the meeting has changed by more than 30 calendar days from the previous year, then notice must be provided by the later of 60 calendar days prior to the date of the annual meeting or the 10th calendar day following the day on which public announcement of the date of the annual meeting is first made by the registrant;
(2) Include the names of all nominees for whom such person intends to solicit proxies; and
(3) Include a statement that such person intends to solicit the holders of shares representing at least 67% of the voting power of shares entitled to vote on the election of directors in support of director nominees other than the registrant's nominees.
(c) If any change occurs with respect to such person's intent to solicit the holders of shares representing at least 67% of the voting power of shares entitled to vote on the election of directors in support of director nominees other than the registrant's nominees or with respect to the names of such person's nominees, such person shall notify the registrant promptly.
(d) A registrant shall notify the person conducting a proxy solicitation subject to this section of the names of all nominees for whom the registrant intends to solicit proxies unless the names have been provided in a preliminary or definitive proxy statement previously filed by the registrant. The notice shall be postmarked or transmitted electronically no later than 50 calendar days prior to the anniversary of the previous year's annual meeting date, except that, if the registrant did not hold an annual meeting during the previous year, or if the date of the meeting has changed by more than 30 calendar days from the previous year, then notice must be provided no later than 50 calendar days prior to the date of the annual meeting. If any change occurs with respect to the names of the registrant's nominees, the registrant shall notify the person conducting a proxy solicitation subject to this section promptly.
(e) Notwithstanding the provisions of § 240.14a-4(b)(2), if any person is conducting a proxy solicitation subject to this section, the form of proxy of the registrant and the form of proxy of any person soliciting proxies pursuant to this section shall:
(1) Set forth the names of all persons nominated for election by the registrant and by any person or group of persons that has complied with this section and the name of any person whose nomination by a shareholder or shareholder group satisfies the requirements of an applicable state or foreign law provision or a registrant's governing documents as they relate to the inclusion of shareholder director nominees in the registrant's proxy materials;
(2) Provide a means for the security holder to grant authority to vote for the nominees set forth;
(3) Clearly distinguish between the nominees of the registrant, the nominees of the person or group of persons that has complied with this section and the nominees of any shareholder or shareholder group whose nominees are included in a registrant's proxy materials pursuant to the requirements of an applicable state or foreign law provision or a registrant's governing documents;
(4) Within each group of nominees referred to in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, list nominees in alphabetical order by last name;
(5) Use the same font type, style and size for all nominees;
(6) Prominently disclose the maximum number of nominees for which authority to vote can be granted; and
(7) Prominently disclose the treatment and effect of a proxy executed in a manner that grants authority to vote for the election of fewer or more nominees than the number of directors being elected and the treatment and effect of a proxy executed in a manner that does not grant authority to vote with respect to any nominees.
(f) If any person is conducting a proxy solicitation subject to this section, the form of proxy of the registrant and the form of proxy of any person soliciting proxies pursuant to this section may provide a means for the security holder to grant authority to vote for the nominees of the registrant set forth, as a group, and a means for the security holder to grant authority to vote for the nominees of any other soliciting person set forth, as a group, provided that there is a similar means for the security holder to withhold authority to vote for such groups of nominees unless the number of nominees of the registrant or of any other soliciting person is less than the number of directors being elected. Means to grant authority to vote for any nominees as a group or to withhold authority for any nominees as a group may not be provided if the form of proxy includes one or more shareholder nominees in accordance with an applicable state or foreign law provision or a registrant's governing documents as they relate to the inclusion of shareholder director nominees in the registrant's proxy materials.
(g) This section shall not apply to:
(1) A consent solicitation; or
(2) A solicitation in connection with an election of directors at an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
) or a business development company as defined by section 2(a)(48) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(48)).
Instruction 1 to paragraphs (b)(1) and (d). Where the deadline falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, the deadline will be treated as the first business day following the Saturday, Sunday, or holiday.
Instruction 2 to paragraph (f). Where applicable state law gives legal effect to votes cast against a nominee, the form of proxy may provide a means for the security holder to grant authority to vote for the nominees of the registrant set forth, as a group, and a means for the security holder to grant authority to vote for the nominees of any other soliciting person set forth, as a group, provided that, in lieu of the ability to withhold authority to vote as a group, there is a similar means for the security holder to vote against such group of nominees (as well as a means for security holders to abstain from voting for such group of nominees).
[86 FR 68380, Dec. 1, 2021]
§ 240.14a-20
Shareholder approval of executive compensation of TARP recipients.
If a solicitation is made by a registrant that is a
TARP recipient,
as defined in section 111(a)(3) of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (12 U.S.C. 5221(a)(3)), during the period in which any obligation arising from financial assistance provided under the
TARP,
as defined in section 3(8) of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (12 U.S.C. 5202(8)), remains outstanding and the solicitation relates to an annual (or special meeting in lieu of the annual) meeting of security holders for which proxies will be solicited for the election of directors, as required pursuant to section 111(e)(1) of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (12 U.S.C. 5221(e)(1)), the registrant shall provide a separate shareholder vote to approve the compensation of executives, as disclosed pursuant to Item 402 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.402 of this chapter), including the compensation discussion and analysis, the compensation tables, and any related material.

# Note to § 240.14
a

# -20:
TARP recipients that are smaller reporting companies entitled to provide scaled disclosure pursuant to Item 402(l) of Regulation S-K are not required to include a compensation discussion and analysis in their proxy statements in order to comply with this section. In the case of these smaller reporting companies, the required vote must be to approve the compensation of executives as disclosed pursuant to Item 402(m) through (q) of Regulation S-K.
[75 FR 2794, Jan. 19, 2010]
§ 240.14a-21
Shareholder approval of executive compensation, frequency of votes for approval of executive compensation and shareholder approval of golden parachute compensation.
(a) If a solicitation is made by a registrant, other than an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 12b-2 (§ 240.12b-2), and the solicitation relates to an annual or other meeting of shareholders at which directors will be elected and for which the rules of the Commission require executive compensation disclosure pursuant to Item 402 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.402 of this chapter), the registrant shall, for the first annual or other meeting of shareholders on or after January 21, 2011, or for the first annual or other meeting of shareholders on or after January 21, 2013 if the registrant is a smaller reporting company, and thereafter no later than the annual or other meeting of shareholders held in the third calendar year after the immediately preceding vote under this subsection, include a separate resolution subject to shareholder advisory vote to approve the compensation of its named executive officers, as disclosed pursuant to Item 402 of Regulation S-K.

# Instruction to paragraph (
a

# ):
The registrant's resolution shall indicate that the shareholder advisory vote under this subsection is to approve the compensation of the registrant's named executive officers as disclosed pursuant to Item 402 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.402 of this chapter). The following is a non-exclusive example of a resolution that would satisfy the requirements of this subsection: “RESOLVED, that the compensation paid to the company's named executive officers, as disclosed pursuant to Item 402 of Regulation S-K, including the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, compensation tables and narrative discussion is hereby APPROVED.”
(b) If a solicitation is made by a registrant, other than an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 12b-2 (§ 240.12b-2), and the solicitation relates to an annual or other meeting of shareholders at which directors will be elected and for which the rules of the Commission require executive compensation disclosure pursuant to Item 402 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.402 of this chapter), the registrant shall, for the first annual or other meeting of shareholders on or after January 21, 2011, or for the first annual or other meeting of shareholders on or after January 21, 2013 if the registrant is a smaller reporting company, and thereafter no later than the annual or other meeting of shareholders held in the sixth calendar year after the immediately preceding vote under this subsection, include a separate resolution subject to shareholder advisory vote as to whether the shareholder vote required by paragraph (a) of this section should occur every 1, 2 or 3 years. Registrants required to provide a separate shareholder vote pursuant to § 240.14a-20 of this chapter shall include the separate resolution required by this section for the first annual or other meeting of shareholders after the registrant has repaid all obligations arising from financial assistance provided under the TARP, as defined in section 3(8) of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (12 U.S.C. 5202(8)), and thereafter no later than the annual or other meeting of shareholders held in the sixth calendar year after the immediately preceding vote under this subsection.
(c) If a solicitation is made by a registrant, other than an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 12b-2 (§ 240.12b-2), for a meeting of shareholders at which shareholders are asked to approve an acquisition, merger, consolidation or proposed sale or other disposition of all or substantially all the assets of the registrant, the registrant shall include a separate resolution subject to shareholder advisory vote to approve any agreements or understandings and compensation disclosed pursuant to Item 402(t) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.402(t) of this chapter), unless such agreements or understandings have been subject to a shareholder advisory vote under paragraph (a) of this section. Consistent with section 14A(b) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78n-1(b)), any agreements or understandings between an acquiring company and the named executive officers of the registrant, where the registrant is not the acquiring company, are not required to be subject to the separate shareholder advisory vote under this paragraph.

# Instructions to § 240.14
a

# -21:
1. Disclosure relating to the compensation of directors required by Item 402(k) (§ 229.402(k) of this chapter) and Item 402(r) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.402(r) of this chapter) is not subject to the shareholder vote required by paragraph (a) of this section. If a registrant includes disclosure pursuant to Item 402(s) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.402(s) of this chapter) about the registrant's compensation policies and practices as they relate to risk management and risk-taking incentives, these policies and practices would not be subject to the shareholder vote required by paragraph (a) of this section. To the extent that risk considerations are a material aspect of the registrant's compensation policies or decisions for named executive officers, the registrant is required to discuss them as part of its Compensation Discussion and Analysis under § 229.402(b) of this chapter, and therefore such disclosure would be considered by shareholders when voting on executive compensation.
2. If a registrant includes disclosure of golden parachute compensation arrangements pursuant to Item 402(t) (§ 229.402(t) of this chapter) in an annual meeting proxy statement, such disclosure would be subject to the shareholder advisory vote required by paragraph (a) of this section.
3. Registrants that are smaller reporting companies entitled to provide scaled disclosure in accordance with Item 402(
l
) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.402(
l
) of this chapter) are not required to include a Compensation Discussion and Analysis in their proxy statements in order to comply with this section. For smaller reporting companies, the vote required by paragraph (a) of this section must be to approve the compensation of the named executive officers as disclosed pursuant to Item 402(m) through (q) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.402(m) through (q) of this chapter).
4. A registrant that has ceased being an emerging growth company shall include the first separate resolution described under § 240.14a-21(a) not later than the end of (i) in the case of a registrant that was an emerging growth company for less than two years after the date of first sale of common equity securities of the registrant pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C 77a
et seq.
), the three-year period beginning on such date; and (ii) in the case of any other registrant, the one-year period beginning on the date the registrant is no longer an emerging growth company.
[76 FR 6045, Feb. 2, 2011, as amended at 82 FR 17555, Apr. 12, 2017]
§ 240.14a-101
Schedule 14A. Information required in proxy statement.

# Schedule 14A Information

# Proxy Statement Pursuant to Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

# (Amendment No. )
Filed by the Registrant [ ]
Filed by a party other than the Registrant [ ]
Check the appropriate box:
[ ] Preliminary Proxy Statement
[ ] Confidential, for Use of the Commission Only (as permitted by Rule 14a-6(e)(2))
[ ] Definitive Proxy Statement
[ ] Definitive Additional Materials
[ ] Soliciting Material under § 240.14a-12
(Name of Registrant as Specified In Its Charter)
(Name of Person(s) Filing Proxy Statement, if other than the Registrant)
Payment of Filing Fee (Check all boxes that apply):
[ ] No fee required
[ ] Fee paid previously with preliminary materials
[ ] Fee computed on table in exhibit required by Item 25(b) per Exchange Act Rules 14a-6(i)(1) and 0-11

# Notes
Notes: A. Where any item calls for information with respect to any matter to be acted upon and such matter involves other matters with respect to which information is called for by other items of this schedule, the information called for by such other items also shall be given. For example, where a solicitation of security holders is for the purpose of approving the authorization of additional securities which are to be used to acquire another specified company, and the registrants' security holders will not have a separate opportunity to vote upon the transaction, the solicitation to authorize the securities is also a solicitation with respect to the acquisition. Under those facts, information required by Items 11, 13 and 14 shall be furnished.
B. Where any item calls for information with respect to any matter to be acted upon at the meeting, such item need be answered in the registrant's soliciting material only with respect to proposals to be made by or on behalf of the registrant.
C. Except as otherwise specifically provided, where any item calls for information for a specified period with regard to directors, executive officers, officers or other persons holding specified positions or relationships, the information shall be given with regard to any person who held any of the specified positions or relationship at any time during the period. Information, other than
information required by Item 404 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.404 of this chapter), need not be included for any portion of the period during which such person did not hold any such position or relationship, provided a statement to that effect is made.
D. Information may be incorporated by reference only in the manner and to the extent specifically permitted in the items of this schedule. Where incorporation by reference is used, the following shall apply:
1. Disclosure must not be incorporated by reference from a second document if that second document incorporates information pertinent to such disclosure by reference to a third document. A registrant incorporating any documents, or portions of documents, shall include a statement on the last page(s) of the proxy statement as to which documents, or portions of documents, are incorporated by reference. Information shall not be incorporated by reference in any case where such incorporation would render the statement incomplete, unclear or confusing.
2. If a document is incorporated by reference but not delivered to security holders, include an undertaking to provide, without charge, to each person to whom a proxy statement is delivered, upon written or oral request of such person and by first class mail or other equally prompt means within one business day of receipt of such request, a copy of any and all of the information that has been incorporated by reference in the proxy statement (not including exhibits to the information that is incorporated by reference unless such exhibits are specifically incorporated by reference into the information that the proxy statement incorporates), and the address (including title or department) and telephone numbers to which such a request is to be directed. This includes information contained in documents filed subsequent to the date on which definitive copies of the proxy statement are sent or given to security holders, up to the date of responding to the request.
3. If a document or portion of a document other than an annual report sent to security holders pursuant to the requirements of Rule 14a-3 (§ 240.14a-3 of this chapter) with respect to the same meeting or solicitation of consents or authorizations as that to which the proxy statement relates is incorporated by reference in the manner permitted by Item 13(b) or 14(e)(1) of this schedule, the proxy statement must be sent to security holders no later than 20 business days prior to the date on which the meeting of such security holders is held or, if no meeting is held, at least 20 business days prior to the date the votes, consents or authorizations may be used to effect the corporate action.
4.
Electronic filings.
If any of the information required by Items 13 or 14 of this Schedule is incorporated by reference from an annual or quarterly report to security holders, such report, or any portion thereof incorporated by reference, shall be filed in electronic format with the proxy statement. This provision shall not apply to registered investment companies.
5.
Interactive Data File.
An Interactive Data File must be included in accordance with § 232.405 of this chapter and the EDGAR Filer Manual where applicable pursuant to § 232.405(b) of this chapter.
E. In Item 13 of this Schedule, the reference to “meets the requirement of Form S-3” or “meets the requirements of General Instruction A.2 of Form N-2” shall refer to a registrant who meets the following requirements:
(a) A registrant meets the requirements of Form S-3 if:
(1) The registrant meets the requirements of General Instruction I.A. of Form S-3 (§ 239.13 of this chapter); and
(2) One of the following is met:
(i) The registrant meets the aggregate market value requirement of General Instruction I.B.1 of Form S-3; or
(ii) Action is to be taken as described in Items 11, 12, and 14 of this schedule which concerns non-convertible debt or preferred securities issued by a registrant meeting the requirements of General Instruction I.B.2. of Form S-3 (referenced in 17 CFR 239.13); or
(iii) The registrant is a majority-owned subsidiary and one of the conditions of General Instruction I.C. of Form S-3 is met.
(b) A registrant meets the requirements of General Instruction A.2 of Form N-2 (§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter) if the registrant meets the conditions included in such General Instruction, provided that General Instruction A.2.c of Form N-2 is subject to the same limitations described in paragraph (a)(2) of this Note E.
Item 1. Date, time and place information.
(a) State the date, time and place of the meeting of security holders, and the complete mailing address, including ZIP Code, of the principal executive offices of the registrant, unless such information is otherwise disclosed in material furnished to security holders with or preceding the proxy statement. If action is to be taken by written consent, state the date by which consents are to be submitted if state law requires that such a date be specified or if the person soliciting intends to set a date.
(b) On the first page of the proxy statement, as delivered to security holders, state the approximate date on which the proxy statement and form of proxy are first sent or given to security holders.
(c) Furnish the information required to be in the proxy statement by Rule 14a-5(e) (§ 240.14a-5(e) of this chapter).
Item 2. Revocability of proxy.
State whether or not the person giving the proxy has the power to revoke it. If the right of revocation before the proxy is exercised is limited or is
subject to compliance with any formal procedure, briefly describe such limitation or procedure.
Item 3. Dissenters' right of appraisal.
Outline briefly the rights of appraisal or similar rights of dissenters with respect to any matter to be acted upon and indicate any statutory procedure required to be followed by dissenting security holders in order to perfect such rights. Where such rights may be exercised only within a limited time after the date of adoption of a proposal, the filing of a charter amendment or other similar act, state whether the persons solicited will be notified of such date.
Instructions.
1. Indicate whether a security holder's failure to vote against a proposal will constitute a waiver of his appraisal or similar rights and whether a vote against a proposal will be deemed to satisfy any notice requirements under State law with respect to appraisal rights. If the State law is unclear, state what position will be taken in regard to these matters.
2. Open-end investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 are not required to respond to this item.
Item 4. Persons Making the Solicitation
—(a) Solicitations not subject to Rule 14a-12(c) (§ 240.14a-12(c)). (1) If the solicitation is made by the registrant, so state. Give the name of any director of the registrant who has informed the registrant in writing that he intends to oppose any action intended to be taken by the registrant and indicate the action which he intends to oppose.
(2) If the solicitation is made otherwise than by the registrant, so state and give the names of the participants in the solicitation, as defined in paragraphs (a) (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi) of Instruction 3 to this Item.
(3) If the solicitation is to be made otherwise than by the use of the mails or pursuant to § 240.14a-16, describe the methods to be employed. If the solicitation is to be made by specially, engaged employees or paid solicitors, state (i) the material features of any contract or arrangement for such solicitation and identify the parties, and (ii) the cost or anticipated cost thereof.
(4) State the names of the persons by whom the cost of solicitation has been or will be borne, directly or indirectly.
(b)
Solicitations subject to Rule 14a-12(c) (§ 240.14a-12(c)).
(1) State by whom the solicitation is made and describe the methods employed and to be employed to solicit security holders.
(2) If regular employees of the registrant or any other participant in a solicitation have been or are to be employed to solicit security holders, describe the class or classes of employees to be so employed, and the manner and nature of their employment for such purpose.
(3) If specially engaged employees, representatives or other persons have been or are to be employed to solicit security holders, state (i) the material features of any contract or arrangement for such solicitation and the identity of the parties, (ii) the cost or anticipated cost thereof and (iii) the approximate number of such employees of employees or any other person (naming such other person) who will solicit security holders).
(4) State the total amount estimated to be spent and the total expenditures to date for, in furtherance of, or in connection with the solicitation of security holders.
(5) State by whom the cost of the solicitation will be borne. If such cost is to be borne initially by any person other than the registrant, state whether reimbursement will be sought from the registrant, and, if so, whether the question of such reimbursement will be submitted to a vote of security holders.
(6) If any such solicitation is terminated pursuant to a settlement between the registrant and any other participant in such solicitation, describe the terms of such settlement, including the cost or anticipated cost thereof to the registrant.
Instructions.
1. With respect to solicitations subject to Rule 14a-12(c) (§ 240.14a-12(c)), costs and expenditures within the meaning of this Item 4 shall include fees for attorneys, accountants, public relations or financial advisers, solicitors, advertising, printing, transportation, litigation and other costs incidental to the solicitation, except that the registrant may exclude the amount of such costs represented by the amount normally expended for a solicitation for an election of directors in the absence of a contest, and costs represented by salaries and wages of regular employees and officers, provided a statement to that effect is included in the proxy statement.
2. The information required pursuant to paragraph (b)(6) of this Item should be included in any amended or revised proxy statement or other soliciting materials relating to the same meeting or subject matter furnished to security holders by the registrant subsequent to the date of settlement.
3. For purposes of this Item 4 and Item 5 of this Schedule 14A:
(a) The terms “participant” and “participant in a solicitation” include the following:
(i) In the case of a solicitation made on behalf of the registrant, the registrant, each director of the registrant and each of the registrant's nominees for election as a director;
(ii) In the case of a solicitation made otherwise than on behalf of the registrant, each of the soliciting person's nominees for election as a director;
(iii) Any committee or group which solicits proxies, any member of such committee or group, and any person whether or not named
as a member who, acting alone or with one or more other persons, directly or indirectly takes the initiative, or engages, in organizing, directing, or arranging for the financing of any such committee or group;
(iv) Any person who finances or joins with another to finance the solicitation of proxies, except persons who contribute not more than $500 and who are not otherwise participants;
(v) Any person who lends money or furnishes credit or enters into any other arrangements, pursuant to any contract or understanding with a participant, for the purpose of financing or otherwise inducing the purchase, sale, holding or voting of securities of the registrant by any participant or other persons, in support of or in opposition to a participant; except that such terms do not include a bank, broker or dealer who, in the ordinary course of business, lends money or executes orders for the purchase or sale of securities and who is not otherwise a participant; and
(vi) Any person who solicits proxies.
(b) The terms “participant” and “participant in a solicitation” do not include:
(i) Any person or organization retained or employed by a participant to solicit security holders and whose activities are limited to the duties required to be performed in the course of such employment;
(ii) Any person who merely transmits proxy soliciting material or performs other ministerial or clerical duties;
(iii) Any person employed by a participant in the capacity of attorney, accountant, or advertising, public relations or financial adviser, and whose activities are limited to the duties required to be performed in the course of such employment;
(iv) Any person regularly employed as an officer or employee of the registrant or any of its subsidiaries who is not otherwise a participant; or
(v) Any officer or director of, or any person regularly employed by, any other participant, if such officer, director or employee is not otherwise a participant.
Item 5. Interest of certain Persons in Matters To Be Acted Upon
(a)
Solicitations not subject to Rule 14a-12(c) (§ 240.14a-12(c)).
Describe briefly any substantial interest, direct or indirect, by security holdings or otherwise, of each of the following persons in any matter to be acted upon, other than elections to office:
(1) If the solicitation is made on behalf of the registrant, each person who has been a director or executive officer of the registrant at any time since the beginning of the last fiscal year.
(2) If the solicitation is made otherwise than on behalf of the registrant, each participant in the solicitation, as defined in paragraphs (a) (iii), (iv), (v), and (vi) of Instruction 3 to Item 4 of this Schedule 14A.
(3) Each nominee for election as a director of the registrant.
(4) Each associate of any of the foregoing persons.
(5) If the solicitation is made on behalf of the registrant, furnish the information required by Item 402(t) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.402(t) of this chapter).

# Instruction to paragraph (
a

# ).
Except in the case of a solicitation subject to this regulation made in opposition to another solicitation subject to this regulation, this sub-item (a) shall not apply to any interest arising from the ownership of securities of the registrant where the security holder receives no extra or special benefit not shared on a pro rata basis by all other holders of the same class.
(b)
Solicitation subject to Rule 14a-12(c) (§ 240.14a-12(c)).
With respect to any solicitation subject to Rule 14a-12(c) (§ 240.14a-12(c)):
(1) Describe briefly any substantial interest, direct or indirect, by security holdings or otherwise, of each participant as defined in paragraphs (a) (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi) of Instruction 3 to Item 4 of this Schedule 14A, in any matter to be acted upon at the meeting, and include with respect to each participant the following information, or a fair and accurate summary thereof:
(i) Name and business address of the participant.
(ii) The participant's present principal occupation or employment and the name, principal business and address of any corporation or other organization in which such employment is carried on.
(iii) State whether or not, during the past ten years, the participant has been convicted in a criminal proceeding (excluding traffic violations or similar misdemeanors) and, if so, give dates, nature of conviction, name and location of court, and penalty imposed or other disposition of the case. A negative answer need not be included in the proxy statement or other soliciting material.
(iv) State the amount of each class of securities of the registrant which the participant owns beneficially, directly or indirectly.
(v) State the amount of each class of securities of the registrant which the participant owns of record but not beneficially.
(vi) State with respect to all securities of the registrant purchased or sold within the past two years, the dates on which they were purchased or sold and the amount purchased or sold on each such date.
(vii) If any part of the purchase price or market value of any of the shares specified in paragraph (b)(1)(vi) of this Item is represented by funds borrowed or otherwise obtained for the purpose of acquiring or holding such securities, so state and indicate the amount of the indebtedness as of the latest practicable date. If such funds were borrowed or obtained otherwise than pursuant to a
margin account or bank loan in the regular course of business of a bank, broker or dealer, briefly describe the transaction, and state the names of the parties.
(viii) State whether or not the participant is, or was within the past year, a party to any contract, arrangements or understandings with any person with respect to any securities of the registrant, including, but not limited to joint ventures, loan or option arrangements, puts or calls, guarantees against loss or guarantees of profit, division of losses or profits, or the giving or withholding of proxies. If so, name the parties to such contracts, arrangements or understandings and give the details thereof.
(ix) State the amount of securities of the registrant owned beneficially, directly or indirectly, by each of the participant's associates and the name and address of each such associate.
(x) State the amount of each class of securities of any parent or subsidiary of the registrant which the participant owns beneficially, directly or indirectly.
(xi) Furnish for the participant and associates of the participant the information required by Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.404(a) of this chapter).
(xii) State whether or not the participant or any associates of the participant have any arrangement or understanding with any person—
(A) with respect to any future employment by the registrant or its affiliates; or
(B) with respect to any future transactions to which the registrant or any of its affiliates will or may be a party.
If so, describe such arrangement or understanding and state the names of the parties thereto.
(2) With respect to any person, other than a director or executive officer of the registrant acting solely in that capacity, who is a party to an arrangement or understanding pursuant to which a nominee for election as director is proposed to be elected, describe any substantial interest, direct or indirect, by security holdings or otherwise, that such person has in any matter to be acted upon at the meeting, and furnish the information called for by paragraphs (b)(1) (xi) and (xii) of this Item.
(3) If the solicitation is made on behalf of the registrant, furnish the information required by Item 402(t) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.402(t) of this chapter).

# Instruction to paragraph (
b

# ):
For purposes of this Item 5, beneficial ownership shall be determined in accordance with Rule 13d-3 under the Act (Section 240.13d-3 of this chapter).
Item 6. Voting securities and principal holders thereof,
(a) As to each class of voting securities of the registrant entitled to be voted at the meeting (or by written consents or authorizations if no meeting is held), state the number of shares outstanding and the number of votes to which each class is entitled.
(b) State the record date, if any, with respect to this solicitation. If the right to vote or give consent is not to be determined, in whole or in part, by reference to a record date, indicate the criteria for the determination of security holders entitled to vote or give consent.
(c) If action is to be taken with respect to the election of directors and if the persons solicited have cumulative voting rights: (1) Make a statement that they have such rights, (2) briefly describe such rights, (3) state briefly the conditions precedent to the exercise thereof, and (4) if discretionary authority to cumulate votes is solicited, so indicate.
(d) Furnish the information required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.403 of this chapter) to the extent known by the persons on whose behalf the solicitation is made.
(e) If, to the knowledge of the persons on whose behalf the solicitation is made, a change in control of the registrant has occurred since the beginning of its last fiscal year, state the name of the person(s) who acquired such control, the amount and the source of the consideration used by such person or persons; the basis of the control, the date and a description of the transaction(s) which resulted in the change of control and the percentage of voting securities of the registrant now beneficially owned directly or indirectly by the person(s) who acquired control; and the identity of the person(s) from whom control was assumed. If the source of all or any part of the consideration used is a loan made in the ordinary course of business by a bank as defined by section 3(a)(6) of the Act, the identity of such bank shall be omitted provided a request for confidentiality has been made pursuant to section 13(d)(1)(B) of the Act by the person(s) who acquired control. In lieu thereof, the material shall indicate that the identity of the bank has been so omitted and filed separately with the Commission.
Instruction.
1. State the terms of any loans or pledges obtained by the new control group for the purpose of acquiring control, and the names of the lenders or pledgees.
2. Any arrangements or understandings among members of both the former and new control groups and their associates with respect to election of directors or other matters should be described.
Item 7. Directors and executive officers.
If action is to be taken with respect to the election of directors, furnish the following information in tabular form to the extent practicable. If, however, the solicitation is made on behalf of persons other than the registrant, the information required need be furnished only as to nominees of the persons making the solicitation.
(a) The information required by Item 103(c)(2) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.103(c)(2) of this chapter) with respect to directors and executive officers.
(b) The information required by Items 401, 404(a) and (b), 405, 407 and 408(b) of Regulation S-K (§§ 229.401, 229.404(a) and (b), 229.405, 229.407, and 229.408(b) of this chapter), other than the information required by:
(i) Paragraph (c)(3) of Item 407 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.407(c)(3) of this chapter); and
(ii) Paragraphs (e)(4) and (e)(5) of Item 407 of Regulation S-K (§§ 229.407(e)(4) and 229.407(e)(5) of this chapter) (which are required by Item 8 of this Schedule 14A).
(c) [Reserved]
(d) If a registrant is required to include a shareholder nominee or nominees submitted to the registrant for inclusion in the registrant's proxy materials pursuant to a procedure set forth under applicable state or foreign law, or the registrant's governing documents providing for the inclusion of shareholder director nominees in the registrant's proxy materials, the registrant must include in its proxy statement the disclosure required from the nominating shareholder or nominating shareholder group under Item 6 of § 240.14n-101 with regard to the nominee or nominees and the nominating shareholder or nominating shareholder group.
(e) In lieu of the information required by this Item 7, investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a) must furnish the information required by Item 22(b) of this Schedule 14A.
(f) If a person is conducting a solicitation that is subject to § 240.14a-19, the registrant must include in its proxy statement a statement directing shareholders to refer to any other soliciting person's proxy statement for information required by Item 7 of this Schedule 14A with regard to such person's nominee or nominees and a soliciting person other than the registrant must include in its proxy statement a statement directing shareholders to refer to the registrant's or other soliciting person's proxy statement for information required by Item 7 of this Schedule 14A with regard to the registrant's or other soliciting person's nominee or nominees. The statement must explain to shareholders that they can access the other soliciting person's proxy statement, and any other relevant documents, without cost on the Commission's website.

# Instruction to Item 7.
The information disclosed pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Item 7will not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
), the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), or the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
), except to the extent that the registrant specifically incorporates that information by reference.
Item 8. Compensation of directors and executive officers.
Furnish the information required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.402 of this chapter) and paragraphs (e)(4) and (e)(5) of Item 407 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.407(e)(4) and (e)(5) of this chapter) if action is to be taken with regard to:
(a) The election of directors;
(b) Any bonus, profit sharing or other compensation plan, contract or arrangement in which any director, nominee for election as a director, or executive officer of the registrant will participate;
(c) Any pension or retirement plan in which any such person will participate; or
(d) The granting or extension to any such person of any options, warrants or rights to purchase any securities, other than warrants or rights issued to security holders as such, on a pro rata basis.
However, if the solicitation is made on behalf of persons other than the registrant, the information required need be furnished only as to nominees of the persons making the solicitation and associates of such nominees. In the case of investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a), furnish the information required by Item 22(b)(13) of this Schedule 14A.
Instruction.
If an otherwise reportable compensation plan became subject to such requirements because of an acquisition or merger and, within one year of the acquisition or merger, such plan was terminated for purposes of prospective eligibility, the registrant may furnish a description of its obligation to the designated individuals pursuant to the compensation plan. Such description may be furnished in lieu of a description of the compensation plan in the proxy statement.
Item 9. Independent public accountants.
If the solicitation is made on behalf of the registrant and relates to: (1) The annual (or special meeting in lieu of annual) meeting of security holders at which directors are to be elected, or a solicitation of consents or authorizations in lieu of such meeting or (2) the election, approval or ratification of the registrant's accountant, furnish the following information describing the registrant's relationship with its independent public accountant:
(a) The name of the principal accountant selected or being recommended to security holders for election, approval or ratification for the current year. If no accountant has been selected or recommended, so state and briefly describe the reasons therefor.
(b) The name of the principal accountant for the fiscal year most recently completed if different from the accountant selected or recommended for the current year or if no
accountant has yet been selected or recommended for the current year.
(c) The proxy statement shall indicate: (1) Whether or not representatives of the principal accountant for the current year and for the most recently completed fiscal year are expected to be present at the security holders' meeting, (2) whether or not they will have the opportunity to make a statement if they desire to do so, and (3) whether or not such representatives are expected to be available to respond to appropriate questions.
(d) If during the registrant's two most recent fiscal years or any subsequent interim period, (1) an independent accountant who was previously engaged as the principal accountant to audit the registrant's financial statements, or an independent accountant on whom the principal accountant expressed reliance in its report regarding a significant subsidiary, has resigned (or indicated it has declined to stand for re-election after the completion of the current audit) or was dismissed, or (2) a new independent accountant has been engaged as either the principal accountant to audit the registrant's financial statements or as an independent accountant on whom the principal accountant has expressed or is expected to express reliance in its report regarding a significant subsidiary, then, notwithstanding any previous disclosure, provide the information required by Item 304(a) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.304 of this chapter).
(e)(1) Disclose, under the caption
Audit Fees
, the aggregate fees billed for each of the last two fiscal years for professional services rendered by the principal accountant for the audit of the registrant's annual financial statements and review of financial statements included in the registrant's Form 10-Q (17 CFR 249.308a) or services that are normally provided by the accountant in connection with statutory and regulatory filings or engagements for those fiscal years.
(2) Disclose, under the caption
Audit-Related Fees,
the aggregate fees billed in each of the last two fiscal years for assurance and related services by the principal accountant that are reasonably related to the performance of the audit or review of the registrant's financial statements and are not reported under paragraph (e)(1) of this section. Registrants shall describe the nature of the services comprising the fees disclosed under this category.
(3) Disclose, under the caption
Tax Fees,
the aggregate fees billed in each of the last two fiscal years for professional services rendered by the principal accountant for tax compliance, tax advice, and tax planning. Registrants shall describe the nature of the services comprising the fees disclosed under this category.
(4) Disclose, under the caption
All Other Fees,
the aggregate fees billed in each of the last two fiscal years for products and services provided by the principal accountant, other than the services reported in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section. Registrants shall describe the nature of the services comprising the fees disclosed under this category.
(5)(i) Disclose the audit committee's pre-approval policies and procedures described in 17 CFR 210.2-01(c)(7)(i).
(ii) Disclose the percentage of services described in each of paragraphs (e)(2) through (e)(4) of this section that were approved by the audit committee pursuant to 17 CFR 210.2-01(c)(7)(i)(C).
(6) If greater than 50 percent, disclose the percentage of hours expended on the principal accountant's engagement to audit the registrant's financial statements for the most recent fiscal year that were attributed to work performed by persons other than the principal accountant's full-time, permanent employees.
(7) If the registrant is an investment company, disclose the aggregate non-audit fees billed by the registrant's accountant for services rendered to the registrant, and to the registrant's investment adviser (not including any subadviser whose role is primarily portfolio management and is subcontracted with or overseen by another investment adviser), and any entity controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the adviser that provides ongoing services to the registrant for each of the last two fiscal years of the registrant.
(8) If the registrant is an investment company, disclose whether the audit committee of the board of directors has considered whether the provision of non-audit services that were rendered to the registrant's investment adviser (not including any subadviser whose role is primarily portfolio management and is subcontracted with or overseen by another investment adviser), and any entity controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the investment adviser that provides ongoing services to the registrant that were not pre-approved pursuant to 17 CFR 210.2-01(c)(7)(ii) is compatible with maintaining the principal accountant's independence.
Instruction to Item 9(e).
For purposes of Item 9(e)(2), (3), and (4), registrants that are investment companies must disclose fees billed for services rendered to the registrant and separately, disclose fees required to be approved by the investment company registrant's audit committee pursuant to 17 CFR 210.2-01(c)(7)(ii). Registered investment companies must also disclose the fee percentages as required by item 9(e)(5)(ii) for the registrant and separately, disclose the fee percentages as required by item 9(e)(5)(ii) for the fees required to be approved by the investment company registrant's audit committee pursuant to 17 CFR 210.2-01(c)(7)(ii).
Item 10. Compensation Plans.
If action is to be taken with respect to any plan pursuant to which cash or noncash compensation may be paid or distributed, furnish the following information:
(a)
Plans subject to security holder action.
(1) Describe briefly the material features of the plan being acted upon, identify each class of persons who will be eligible to participate therein, indicate the approximate number of persons in each such class, and state the basis of such participation.
(2)(i) In the tabular format specified below, disclose the benefits or amounts that will be received by or allocated to each of the following under the plan being acted upon, if such benefits or amounts are determinable:
New Plan Benefits
Plan name
Name and position
Dollar value ($)
Number of units
CEO
A
B
C
D
Executive Group
Non-Executive Director Group
Non-Executive Officer Employee Group
(ii) The table required by paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this Item shall provide information as to the following persons:
(A) Each person (stating name and position) specified in paragraph (a)(3) of Item 402 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.402(a)(3) of this chapter);
Instruction:
In the case of investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, furnish the information for Compensated Persons as defined in Item 22(b)(13) of this Schedule in lieu of the persons specified in paragraph (a)(3) of Item 402 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.402(a)(3) of this chapter).
(B) All current executive officers as a group;
(C) All current directors who are not executive officers as a group; and
(D) All employees, including all current officers who are not executive officers, as a group.

# Instruction to New Plan Benefits Table
Additional columns should be added for each plan with respect to which security holder action is to be taken.
(iii) If the benefits or amounts specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this item are not determinable, state the benefits or amounts which would have been received by or allocated to each of the following for the last completed fiscal year if the plan had been in effect, if such benefits or amounts may be determined, in the table specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this Item:
(A) Each person (stating name and position) specified in paragraph (a)(3) of Item 402 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.402(a)(3) of this chapter);
(B) All current executive officers as a group;
(C) All current directors who are not executive officers as a group; and
(D) All employees, including all current officers who are not executive officers, as a group.
(3) If the plan to be acted upon can be amended, otherwise than by a vote of security holders, to increase the cost thereof to the registrant or to alter the allocation of the benefits as between the persons and groups specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this item, state the nature of the amendments which can be so made.
(b)(1)
Additional information regarding specified plans subject to security holder action.
With respect to any pension or retirement plan submitted for security holder action, state:
(i) The approximate total amount necessary to fund the plan with respect to past services, the period over which such amount is to be paid and the estimated annual payments necessary to pay the total amount over such period; and
(ii) The estimated annual payment to be made with respect to current services. In the case of a pension or retirement plan, information called for by paragraph (a)(2) of this Item may be furnished in the format specified by paragraph (h)(2) of Item 402 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.402(h)(2) of this chapter).

# Instruction to paragraph (
b

# )(1)(
ii

# ).
In the case of investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a), refer to Instruction 4 in Item 22(b)(13)(i) of this Schedule in lieu of paragraph (h)(2) of Item 402 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.402(h)(2) of this chapter).
(2)(i) With respect to any specific grant of or any plan containing options, warrants or rights submitted for security holder action, state:
(A) The title and amount of securities underlying such options, warrants or rights;
(B) The prices, expiration dates and other material conditions upon which the options, warrants or rights may be exercised;
(C) The consideration received or to be received by the registrant or subsidiary for the granting or extension of the options, warrants or rights;
(D) The market value of the securities underlying the options, warrants, or rights as of the latest practicable date; and
(E) In the case of options, the federal income tax consequences of the issuance and exercise of such options to the recipient and the registrant; and
(ii) State separately the amount of such options received or to be received by the following persons if such benefits or amounts are determinable:
(A) Each person (stating name and position) specified in paragraph (a)(3) of Item 402 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.402(a)(3) of this chapter);
(B) All current executive officers as a group;
(C) All current directors who are not executive officers as a group;
(D) Each nominee for election as a director;
(E) Each associate of any of such directors, executive officers or nominees;
(F) Each other person who received or is to receive 5 percent of such options, warrants or rights; and
(G) All employees, including all current officers who are not executive officers, as a group.
(c)
Information regarding plans and other arrangements not subject to security holder action.
Furnish the information required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.201(d) of this chapter).

# Instructions to paragraph (
c

# ).
1. If action is to be taken as described in paragraph (a) of this Item with respect to the approval of a new compensation plan under which equity securities of the registrant are authorized for issuance, information about the plan shall be disclosed as required under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Item and shall not be included in the disclosure required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.201(d) of this chapter). If action is to be taken as described in paragraph (a) of this Item with respect to the amendment or modification of an existing plan under which equity securities of the registrant are authorized for issuance, the registrant shall include information about securities previously authorized for issuance under the plan (including any outstanding options, warrants and rights previously granted pursuant to the plan and any securities remaining available for future issuance under the plan) in the disclosure required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.201(d) of this chapter). Any additional securities that are the subject of the amendments or modification of the existing plan shall be disclosed as required under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Item and shall not be included in the Item 201(d) disclosure.

# Instructions
1. The term
plan
as used in this Item means any plan as defined in paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of Item 402 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.402(a)(6)(ii) of this chapter).
2. If action is to be taken with respect to a material amendment or modification of an existing plan, the item shall be answered with respect to the plan as proposed to be amended or modified and shall indicate any material differences from the existing plan.
3. If the plan to be acted upon is set forth in a written document, three copies thereof shall be filed with the Commission at the time copies of the proxy statement and form of proxy are first filed pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of § 240.14a-6. Electronic filers shall file with the Commission a copy of such written plan document in electronic format as an appendix to the proxy statement. It need not be provided to security holders unless it is a part of the proxy statement.
4. Paragraph (b)(2)(ii) does not apply to warrants or rights to be issued to security holders as such on a pro rata basis.
5. The Commission shall be informed, as supplemental information, when the proxy statement is first filed, as to when the options, warrants or rights and the shares called for thereby will be registered under the Securities Act or, if such registration is not contemplated, the section of the Securities Act or rule of the Commission under which exemption from such registration is claimed and the facts relied upon to make the exemption available.
Item 11. Authorization or issuance of securities otherwise than for exchange.
If action is to be taken with respect to the authorization or issuance of any securities otherwise than for exchange for outstanding securities of the registrant, furnish the following information:
(a) State the title and amount of securities to be authorized or issued.
(b) Furnish the information required by Item 202 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.202 of this chapter). If the terms of the securities cannot be stated or estimated with respect to any or all of the securities to be authorized, because no offering thereof is contemplated in the proximate future, and if no further authorization by security holders for the issuance thereof is to be obtained, it should be stated that the terms of the securities to be authorized, including dividend or interest rates, conversion prices, voting rights, redemption prices, maturity dates, and similar matters will be determined by the board of directors. If the securities are additional shares of common stock of a class outstanding, the description may be omitted except for a statement of the preemptive rights, if any. Where the statutory provisions with respect to preemptive rights are so indefinite or complex that they cannot be stated in summarized form, it will suffice to make a statement in the form of an opinion of counsel as to the existence and extent of such rights.
(c) Describe briefly the transaction in which the securities are to be issued including a statement as to (1) the nature and approximate amount of consideration received or to be received by the registrant and (2) the approximate amount devoted to each
purpose so far as determinable for which the net proceeds have been or are to be used. If it is impracticable to describe the transaction in which the securities are to be issued, state the reason, indicate the purpose of the authorization of the securities, and state whether further authorization for the issuance of the securities by a vote of security holders will be solicited prior to such issuance.
(d) If the securities are to be issued otherwise than in a public offering for cash, state the reasons for the proposed authorization or issuance and the general effect thereof upon the rights of existing security holders.
(e) Furnish the information required by Item 13(a) of this schedule.
Item 12. Modification or exchange of securities.
If action is to be taken with respect to the modification of any class of securities of the registrant, or the issuance or authorization for issuance of securities of the registrant in exchange for outstanding securities of the registrant furnish the following information:
(a) If outstanding securities are to be modified, state the title and amount thereof. If securities are to be issued in exchange for outstanding securities, state the title and amount of securities to be so issued, the title and amount of outstanding securities to be exchanged therefor and the basis of the exchange.
(b) Describe any material differences between the outstanding securities and the modified or new securities in respect of any of the matters concerning which information would be required in the description of the securities in Item 202 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.202 of this chapter).
(c) State the reasons for the proposed modification or exchange and the general effect thereof upon the rights of existing security holders.
(d) Furnish a brief statement as to arrears in dividends or as to defaults in principal or interest in respect to the outstanding securities which are to be modified or exchanged and such other information as may be appropriate in the particular case to disclose adequately the nature and effect of the proposed action.
(e) Outline briefly any other material features of the proposed modification or exchange. If the plan of proposed action is set forth in a written document, file copies thereof with the Commission in accordance with § 240.14a-6.
(f) Furnish the information required by Item 13(a) of this Schedule.
Instruction.
If the existing security is presently listed and registered on a national securities exchange, state whether the registrant intends to apply for listing and registration of the new or reclassified security on such exchange or any other exchange. If the registrant does not intend to make such application, state the effect of the termination of such listing and registration.
Item 13. Financial and other information.
(
See
Notes D and E at the beginning of this Schedule.)
(a)
Information required.
If action is to be taken with respect to any matter specified in Item 11 or 12, furnish the following information:
(1) Financial statements meeting the requirements of Regulation S-X, including financial information required by Rule 3-05 and Article 11 of Regulation S-X with respect to transactions other than pursuant to which action is to be taken as described in this proxy statement (A smaller reporting company may provide the information in Rules 8-04 and 8-05 of Regulation S-X (§§ 210.8-04 and 210.8-05 of this chapter) in lieu of the financial information required by Rule 3-05 and Article 11 of Regulation S-X);
(2) Item 302 of Regulation S-K, supplementary financial information;
(3) Item 303 of Regulation S-K, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations;
(4) Item 304 of Regulation S-K, changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure;
(5) Item 305 of Regulation S-K, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk; and
(6) A statement as to whether or not representatives of the principal accountants for the current year and for the most recently completed fiscal year:
(i) Are expected to be present at the security holders' meeting;
(ii) Will have the opportunity to make a statement if they desire to do so; and
(iii) Are expected to be available to respond to appropriate questions.
(b)
Incorporation by reference.
The information required pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Item may be incorporated by reference into the proxy statement as follows:
(1)
S-3 registrants and certain N-2 registrants.
If the registrant meets the requirements of Form S-3 or General Instruction A.2 of Form N-2 (see Note E to this Schedule), it may incorporate by reference to previously-filed documents any of the information required by paragraph (a) of this Item, provided that the requirements of paragraph (c) are met. Where the registrant meets the requirements of Form S-3 or General Instruction A.2 of Form N-2 and has elected to furnish the required information by incorporation by reference, the registrant may elect to update the information so incorporated by reference to information in subsequently-filed documents.
(2)
All registrants.
The registrant may incorporate by reference any of the information required by paragraph (a) of this Item, provided that the information is contained in an annual report to security holders or a
previously-filed statement or report, such report or statement is delivered to security holders with the proxy statement and the requirements of paragraph (c) are met.
(c)
Certain conditions applicable to incorporation by reference.
Registrants eligible to incorporate by reference into the proxy statement the information required by paragraph (a) of this Item in the manner specified by paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) may do so only if:
(1) The information is not required to be included in the proxy statement pursuant to the requirement of another Item;
(2) The proxy statement identifies on the last page(s) the information incorporated by reference; and
(3) The material incorporated by reference substantially meets the requirements of this Item or the appropriate portions of this Item.
Instructions to Item 13.
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Item, any or all of the information required by paragraph (a) of this Item not material for the exercise of prudent judgment in regard to the matter to be acted upon may be omitted. In the usual case the information is deemed material to the exercise of prudent judgment where the matter to be acted upon is the authorization or issuance of a material amount of senior securities, but the information is not deemed material where the matter to be acted upon is the authorization or issuance of common stock, otherwise than in an exchange, merger, consolidation, acquisition or similar transaction, the authorization of preferred stock without present intent to issue or the authorization of preferred stock for issuance for cash in an amount constituting fair value.
2. In order to facilitate compliance with Rule 2-02(a) of Regulation S-X, one copy of the definitive proxy statement filed with the Commission shall include a manually signed copy of the accountant's report. If the financial statements are incorporated by reference, a manually signed copy of the accountant's report shall be filed with the definitive proxy statement.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of Regulation S-X, no schedules other than those prepared in accordance with Rules 12-15, 12-28 and 12-29 (or, for management investment companies, Rules 12-12 through 12-14) of that regulation need be furnished in the proxy statement.
4. Unless registered on a national securities exchange or otherwise required to furnish such information, registered investment companies need not furnish the information required by paragraph (a)(2) or (3) of this Item.
5. If the registrant submits preliminary proxy material incorporating by reference financial statements required by this Item, the registrant should furnish a draft of the financial statements if the document from which they are incorporated has not been filed with or furnished to the Commission.
6. A registered investment company need not comply with items (a)(2), (a)(3), and (a)(5) of this Item 13.
Item 14. Mergers, consolidations, acquisitions and similar matters.
(See Notes A and D at the beginning of this Schedule)
Instructions to Item 14:
1. In transactions in which the consideration offered to security holders consists wholly or in part of securities registered under the Securities Act of 1933, furnish the information required by Form S-4 (§ 239.25 of this chapter), Form F-4 (§ 239.34 of this chapter), or Form N-14 (§ 239.23 of this chapter), as applicable, instead of this Item. Only a Form S-4, Form F-4, or Form N-14 must be filed in accordance with § 240.14a-6(j).
2. (a) In transactions in which the consideration offered to security holders consists wholly of cash, the information required by paragraph (c)(1) of this Item for the acquiring company need not be provided unless the information is material to an informed voting decision (e.g., the security holders of the target company are voting and financing is not assured).
(b) Additionally, if only the security holders of the target company are voting:
i. The financial information in paragraphs (b)(8)-(11) of this Item for the acquiring company and the target need not be provided; and
ii. The information in paragraph (c)(2) of this Item for the target company need not be provided.
If, however, the transaction is a going-private transaction (as defined by § 240.13e-3), then the information required by paragraph (c)(2) of this Item must be provided and to the extent that the going-private rules require the information specified in paragraph (b)(8)-(b)(11) of this Item, that information must be provided as well.
3. In transactions in which the consideration offered to security holders consists wholly of securities exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933 or a combination of exempt securities and cash, information about the acquiring company required by paragraph (c)(1) of this Item need not be provided if only the security holders of the acquiring company are voting, unless the information is material to an informed voting decision. If only the security holders of the target company are voting, information about the target company in paragraph (c)(2) of this Item need not be provided. However, the information required by paragraph (c)(2) of this Item must be provided if the transaction is a going-private (as defined by § 240.13e-3) or roll-up (as described by Item 901 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.901 of this chapter)) transaction.
4. The information required by paragraphs (b)(8)-(11) and (c) need not be provided if the
plan being voted on involves only the acquiring company and one or more of its totally held subsidiaries and does not involve a liquidation or a spin off.
5. To facilitate compliance with Rule 2-02(a) of Regulation S-X (§ 210.2-02(a) of this chapter) (technical requirements relating to accountants' reports), one copy of the definitive proxy statement filed with the Commission must include a signed copy of the accountant's report. If the financial statements are incorporated by reference, a signed copy of the accountant's report must be filed with the definitive proxy statement. Signatures may be typed if the document is filed electronically on EDGAR. See Rule 302 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.302 of this chapter).
6. Notwithstanding the provisions of Regulation S-X, no schedules other than those prepared in accordance with § 210.12-15, § 210.12-28 and § 210.12-29 of this chapter (or, for management investment companies, §§ 210.12-12 through 210.12-14 of this chapter) of that regulation need be furnished in the proxy statement.
7. If the preliminary proxy material incorporates by reference financial statements required by this Item, a draft of the financial statements must be furnished to the Commission staff upon request if the document from which they are incorporated has not been filed with or furnished to the Commission.
(a)
Applicability.
If action is to be taken with respect to any of the following transactions, provide the information required by this Item:
(1) A merger or consolidation;
(2) An acquisition of securities of another person;
(3) An acquisition of any other going business or the assets of a going business;
(4) A sale or other transfer of all or any substantial part of assets; or
(5) A liquidation or dissolution.
(b)
Transaction information.
Provide the following information for each of the parties to the transaction unless otherwise specified:
(1)
Summary term sheet.
The information required by Item 1001 of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1001 of this chapter).
(2)
Contact information.
The name, complete mailing address and telephone number of the principal executive offices.
(3)
Business conducted.
A brief description of the general nature of the business conducted.
(4)
Terms of the transaction.
The information required by Item 1004(a)(2) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1004 of this chapter).
(5)
Regulatory approvals.
A statement as to whether any federal or state regulatory requirements must be complied with or approval must be obtained in connection with the transaction and, if so, the status of the compliance or approval.
(6)
Reports, opinions, appraisals.
If a report, opinion or appraisal materially relating to the transaction has been received from an outside party, and is referred to in the proxy statement, furnish the information required by Item 1015(b) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1015 of this chapter).
(7)
Past contacts, transactions or negotiations.
The information required by Items 1005(b) and 1011(a)(1) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1005 of this chapter and § 229.1011 of this chapter), for the parties to the transaction and their affiliates during the periods for which financial statements are presented or incorporated by reference under this Item.
(8)—(10) [Reserved]
(11)
Financial information.
If material, financial information required by Article 11 of Regulation S-X (§§ 210.10-01 through 229.11-03 of this chapter) with respect to this transaction.

# Instructions to paragraph (
b

# )(11):
1. Present any Article 11 information required with respect to transactions other than those being voted upon (where not incorporated by reference) together with the pro forma information relating to the transaction being voted upon. In presenting this information, you must clearly distinguish between the transaction being voted upon and any other transaction.
2. If current pro forma financial information with respect to all other transactions is incorporated by reference, you need only present the pro forma effect of this transaction.
(c)
Information about the parties to the transaction
—(1)
Acquiring company.
Furnish the information required by Part B (Registrant Information) of Form S-4 (§ 239.25 of this chapter) or Form F-4 (§ 239.34 of this chapter), as applicable, for the acquiring company. However, financial statements need only be presented for the latest two fiscal years and interim periods.
(2)
Acquired company.
Furnish the information required by Part C (Information with Respect to the Company Being Acquired) of Form S-4 (§ 239.25 of this chapter) or Form F-4 (§ 239.34 of this chapter), as applicable.
(d)
Information about parties to the transaction: registered investment companies and business development companies.
If the acquiring company or the acquired company is an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 or a business development company as defined by Section 2(a)(48) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, provide the following information for that company instead of the information specified by paragraph (c) of this Item:
(1) Information required by Item 101 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.101 of this chapter), description of business;
(2) Information required by Item 102 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.102 of this chapter), description of property;
(3) Information required by Item 103 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.103 of this chapter), legal proceedings;
(4) Information required by Item 201(a), (b) and (c) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.201(a), (b) and (c) of this chapter), market price of and dividends on the registrant's common equity and related stockholder matters;
(5) Financial statements meeting the requirements of Regulation S-X, including financial information required by Rule 3-05 and Article 11 of Regulation S-X (§ 210.3-05 and § 210.11-01 through § 210.11-03 of this chapter) with respect to transactions other than that as to which action is to be taken as described in this proxy statement;
(6) [Reserved]
(7) Information required by Item 302 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.302 of this chapter), supplementary financial information;
(8) Information required by Item 303 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.303 of this chapter), management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations; and
(9) Information required by Item 304 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.304 of this chapter), changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure.

# Instruction to paragraph (
d

# ) of Item 14:
Unless registered on a national securities exchange or otherwise required to furnish such information, registered investment companies need not furnish the information required by paragraphs (d)(6), (d)(7) and (d)(8) of this Item.
(e)
Incorporation by reference.
(1) The information required by paragraph (c) of this section may be incorporated by reference into the proxy statement to the same extent as would be permitted by Form S-4 (§ 239.25 of this chapter) or Form F-4 (§ 239.34 of this chapter), as applicable.
(2) Alternatively, the registrant may incorporate by reference into the proxy statement the information required by paragraph (c) of this Item if it is contained in an annual report sent to security holders in accordance with § 240.14a-3 of this chapter with respect to the same meeting or solicitation of consents or authorizations that the proxy statement relates to and the information substantially meets the disclosure requirements of Item 14 or Item 17 of Form S-4 (§ 239.25 of this chapter) or Form F-4 (§ 239.34 of this chapter), as applicable.
(f)
De-SPAC transactions.
(1) If the transaction is a de-SPAC transaction, as defined in § 229.1601(a) (Item 1601(a) of Regulation S-K), then the disclosure provisions of §§ 229.1603, 229.1604(b)(1) through (6) and (c), 229.1605 through 229.1607, and 229.1609 (Items 1603, 1604(b)(1) through (6) and (c), 1605 through 1607, and 1609 of Regulation S-K) apply in addition to the provisions of this schedule and disclosure thereunder must be provided in the proxy statement, and the structured data provisions of § 229.1610 (Item 1610 of Regulation S-K) apply to those disclosures. The information required by § 229.1604(b)(1) through (6) must be briefly described in the front of the disclosure document. To the extent that the applicable disclosure requirements of subpart 229.1600 of Regulation S-K are inconsistent with the disclosure requirements of this schedule, the requirements of subpart 229.1600 are controlling.
(2) Provide the following additional information for the target company:
(i) Information required by § 229.101 (Item 101 of Regulation S-K, description of business);
(ii) Information required by § 229.102 (Item 102 of Regulation S-K, description of property);
(iii) Information required by § 229.103 (Item 103 of Regulation S-K, legal proceedings);
(iv) Information required by § 229.304 (Item 304 of Regulation S-K, changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure);
(v) Information required by § 229.403 (Item 403 of Regulation S-K, security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management), assuming the completion of the de-SPAC transaction and any related financing transaction; and
(vi) Information required by § 229.701 (Item 701 of Regulation S-K, recent sales of unregistered securities).
Item 15. Acquisition or disposition of property.
If action is to be taken with respect to the acquisition or disposition of any property, furnish the following information:
(a) Describe briefly the general character and location of the property.
(b) State the nature and amount of consideration to be paid or received by the registrant or any subsidiary. To the extent practicable, outline briefly the facts bearing upon the question of the fairness of the consideration.
(c) State the name and address of the transferer or transferee, as the case may be and the nature of any material relationship of such person to the registrant or any affiliate of the registrant.
(d) Outline briefly any other material features of the contract or transaction.
Item 16. Restatement of accounts.
If action is to be taken with respect to the restatement of any asset, capital, or surplus account of the registrant furnish the following information:
(a) State the nature of the restatement and the date as of which it is to be effective.
(b) Outline briefly the reasons for the restatement and for the selection of the particular effective date.
(c) State the name and amount of each account (including any reserve accounts) affected by the restatement and the effect of the restatement thereon. Tabular presentation of the amounts shall be made when appropriate, particularly in the case of recapitalizations.
(d) To the extent practicable, state whether and the extent, if any, to which, the restatement will, as of the date thereof, alter the amount available for distribution to the holders of equity securities.
Item 17. Action with respect to reports.
If action is to be taken with respect to any report of the registrant or of its directors, officers or committees or any minutes of a meeting of its security holders, furnish the following information:
(a) State whether or not such action is to constitute approval or disapproval of any of the matters referred to in such reports or minutes.
(b) Identify each of such matters which it is intended will be approved or disapproved, and furnish the information required by the appropriate item or items of this schedule with respect to each such matter.
Item 18. Matters not required to be submitted.
If action is to be taken with respect to any matter which is not required to be submitted to a vote of security holders, state the nature of such matter, the reasons for submitting it to a vote of security holders and what action is intended to be taken by the registrant in the event of a negative vote on the matter by the security holders.
Item 19. Amendment of character, bylaws or other documents.
If action is to be taken with respect to any amendment of the registrant's charter, bylaws or other documents as to which information is not required above, state briefly the reasons for and the general effect of such amendment.
Instructions.
1. Where the matter to be acted upon is the classification of directors, state whether vacancies which occur during the year may be filled by the board of directors to serve only until the next annual meeting or may be so filled for the remainder of the full term.
2. Attention is directed to the discussion of disclosure regarding anti-takeover and similar proposals in Release No. 34-15230 (October 13, 1978).
Item 20. Other proposed action.
If action is to be taken on any matter not specifically referred to in this Schedule 14A, describe briefly the substance of each such matter in substantially the same degree of detail as is required by Items 5 to 19, inclusive, of this Schedule, and, with respect to investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, Item 22 of this Schedule. Registrants required to provide a separate shareholder vote pursuant to section 111(e)(1) of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (12 U.S.C. 5221(e)(1)) and § 240.14a-20 shall disclose that they are providing such a vote as required pursuant to the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, and briefly explain the general effect of the vote, such as whether the vote is non-binding.
Item 21. Voting procedures.
As to each matter which is to be submitted to a vote of security holders, furnish the following information:
(a) State the vote required for approval or election, other than for the approval of auditors.
(b) Disclose the method by which votes will be counted, including the treatment and effect under applicable state law and registrant charter and bylaw provisions of abstentions, broker non-votes, and, to the extent applicable, a security holder's withholding of authority to vote for a nominee in an election of directors.
(c) When applicable, disclose how the soliciting person intends to treat proxy authority granted in favor of any other soliciting person's nominees if such other soliciting person abandons its solicitation or fails to comply with § 240.14a-19.
Item 22. Information required in investment company proxy statement.
(a)
General.
(1)
Definitions.
Unless the context otherwise requires, terms used in this Item that are defined in § 240.14a-1 (with respect to proxy soliciting material), in § 240.14c-1 (with respect to information statements), and in the Investment Company Act of 1940 shall have the same meanings provided therein and the following terms shall also apply:
(i)
Administrator.
The term “Administrator” shall mean any person who provides significant administrative or business affairs management services to a Fund.
(ii)
Affiliated broker.
The term “Affiliated Broker” shall mean any broker:
(A) That is an affiliated person of the Fund;
(B) That is an affiliated person of such person; or
(C) An affiliated person of which is an affiliated person of the Fund, its investment adviser, principal underwriter, or Administrator.
(iii)
Distribution plan.
The term “Distribution Plan” shall mean a plan adopted pursuant to Rule 12b-1 under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (§ 270.12b-1 of this chapter).
(iv)
Family of Investment Companies.
The term “Family of Investment Companies” shall mean any two or more registered investment companies that:
(A) Share the same investment adviser or principal underwriter; and
(B) Hold themselves out to investors as related companies for purposes of investment and investor services.
(v)
Fund.
The term “Fund” shall mean a Registrant or, where the Registrant is a series company, a separate portfolio of the Registrant.
(vi)
Fund complex.
The term “Fund Complex” shall mean two or more Funds that:
(A) Hold themselves out to investors as related companies for purposes of investment and investor services; or
(B) Have a common investment adviser or have an investment adviser that is an affiliated person of the investment adviser of any of the other Funds.
(vii)
Immediate Family Member.
The term “Immediate Family Member” shall mean a person's spouse; child residing in the person's household (including step and adoptive children); and any dependent of the person, as defined in section 152 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 152).
(viii)
Officer.
The term “Officer” shall mean the president, vice-president, secretary, treasurer, controller, or any other officer who performs policy-making functions.
(ix)
Parent.
The term “Parent” shall mean the affiliated person of a specified person who controls the specified person directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries.
(x)
Registrant.
The term “Registrant” shall mean an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a) or a business development company as defined by section 2(a)(48) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(48)).
(xi)
Sponsoring Insurance Company.
The term “Sponsoring Insurance Company” of a Fund that is a separate account shall mean the insurance company that establishes and maintains the separate account and that owns the assets of the separate account.
(xii)
Subsidiary.
The term “Subsidiary” shall mean an affiliated person of a specified person who is controlled by the specified person directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries.
(2) [Reserved]
(3)
General disclosure.
Furnish the following information in the proxy statement of a Fund or Funds:
(i) State the name and address of the Fund's investment adviser, principal underwriter, and Administrator.
(ii) When a Fund proxy statement solicits a vote on proposals affecting more than one Fund or class of securities of a Fund (unless the proposal or proposals are the same and affect all Fund or class shareholders), present a summary of all of the proposals in tabular form on one of the first three pages of the proxy statement and indicate which Fund or class shareholders are solicited with respect to each proposal.
(iii) Unless the proxy statement is accompanied by a copy of the Fund's most recent annual report, state prominently in the proxy statement that the Fund will furnish, without charge, a copy of the annual report and the most recent semi-annual report succeeding the annual report, if any, to a shareholder upon request, providing the name, address, and toll-free telephone number of the person to whom such request shall be directed (or, if no toll-free telephone number is provided, a self-addressed postage paid card for requesting the annual report). The Fund should provide a copy of the annual report and the most recent semi-annual report succeeding the annual report, if any, to the requesting shareholder by first class mail, or other means designed to assure prompt delivery, within three business days of the request.
(iv) If the action to be taken would, directly or indirectly, establish a new fee or expense or increase any existing fee or expense to be paid by the Fund or its shareholders, provide a table showing the current and pro forma fees (with the required examples) using the format prescribed in the appropriate registration statement form under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (for open-end management investment companies, Item 3 of Form N-1A (§ 239.15A); for closed-end management investment companies, Item 3 of Form N-2 (§ 239.14); and for separate accounts that offer variable annuity contracts, Item 4 of Form N-3 (§ 239.17a)).
Instructions.
1. Where approval is sought only for a change in asset breakpoints for a pre-existing fee that would not have increased the fee for the previous year (or have the effect of increasing fees or expenses, but for any other reason would not be reflected in a pro forma fee table), describe the likely effect of the change in lieu of providing pro forma fee information.
2. An action would indirectly establish or increase a fee or expense where, for example, the approval of a new investment advisory contract would result in higher custodial or transfer agency fees.
3. The tables should be prepared in a manner designed to facilitate understanding of the impact of any change in fees or expenses.
4. A Fund that offers its shares exclusively to one or more separate accounts and thus is not required to include a fee table in its prospectus (see Item 3 of Form N-1A (§ 239.15A)) should nonetheless prepare a table showing current and pro forma expenses and disclose that the table does not reflect separate account expenses, including sales load.
(v) If action is to be taken with respect to the election of directors or the approval of an advisory contract, describe any purchases or sales of securities of the investment adviser or its Parents, or Subsidiaries of either, since the beginning of the most recently completed fiscal year by any director or any nominee for election as a director of the Fund.
Instructions.
1. Identify the parties, state the consideration, the terms of payment and describe any arrangement or understanding with respect to the composition of the board of directors of the Fund or of the investment adviser, or with respect to the selection of appointment of any person to any office with either such company.
2. Transactions involving securities in an amount not exceeding one percent of the outstanding securities of any class of the investment adviser or any of its Parents or Subsidiaries may be omitted.
(b)
Election of Directors.
If action is to be taken with respect to the election of directors of a Fund, furnish the following information in the proxy statement in addition to, in the case of business development companies, the information (and in the format) required by Item 7 and Item 8 of this Schedule 14A.

# Instructions to introductory text of paragraph (
b

# ).
1. Furnish information with respect to a prospective investment adviser to the extent applicable.
2. If the solicitation is made by or on behalf of a person other than the Fund or an investment adviser of the Fund, provide information only as to nominees of the person making the solicitation.
3. When providing information about directors and nominees for election as directors in response to this Item 22(b), furnish information for directors or nominees who are or would be “interested persons” of the Fund within the meaning of section 2(a)(19) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(19)) separately from the information for directors or nominees who are not or would not be interested persons of the Fund. For example, when furnishing information in a table, you should provide separate tables (or separate sections of a single table) for directors and nominees who are or would be interested persons and for directors or nominees who are not or would not be interested persons. When furnishing information in narrative form, indicate by heading or otherwise the directors or nominees who are or would be interested persons and the directors or nominees who are not or would not be interested persons.
4. No information need be given about any director whose term of office as a director will not continue after the meeting to which the proxy statement relates.
(1) Provide the information required by the following table for each director, nominee for election as director, Officer of the Fund, person chosen to become an Officer of the Fund, and, if the Fund has an advisory board, member of the board. Explain in a footnote to the table any family relationship between the persons listed.
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
Name, Address, and Age
Position(s) Held with Fund
Term of Office and Length of Time Served
Principal Occupation(s) During Past 5 Years
Number of Portfolios in Fund Complex Overseen by Director or Nominee for Director
Other Directorships Held by Director or Nominee for Director

# Instructions to paragraph (
b

# )(1).
1. For purposes of this paragraph, the term “family relationship” means any relationship by blood, marriage, or adoption, not more remote than first cousin.
2. No nominee or person chosen to become a director or Officer who has not consented to act as such may be named in response to this Item. In this regard, see Rule 14a-4(d) under the Exchange Act (§ 240.14a-4(d)).
3. If fewer nominees are named than the number fixed by or pursuant to the governing instruments, state the reasons for this procedure and that the proxies cannot be voted for a greater number of persons than the number of nominees named.
4. For each director or nominee for election as director who is or would be an “interested person” of the Fund within the meaning of section 2(a)(19) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(19)), describe, in a footnote or otherwise, the relationship, events, or transactions by reason of which the director or nominee is or would be an interested person.
5. State the principal business of any company listed under column (4) unless the principal business is implicit in its name.
6. Include in column (5) the total number of separate portfolios that a nominee for election as director would oversee if he were elected.
7. Indicate in column (6) directorships not included in column (5) that are held by a director or nominee for election as director in any company with a class of securities registered pursuant to section 12 of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
l
), or subject to the requirements of section 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)), or any company registered as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, (15 U.S.C. 80a), as amended, and name the companies in which the directorships are held. Where the other directorships include
directorships overseeing two or more portfolios in the same Fund Complex, identify the Fund Complex and provide the number of portfolios overseen as a director in the Fund Complex rather than listing each portfolio separately.
(2) For each individual listed in column (1) of the table required by paragraph (b)(1) of this Item, except for any director or nominee for election as director who is not or would not be an “interested person” of the Fund within the meaning of section 2(a)(19) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(19)), describe any positions, including as an officer, employee, director, or general partner, held with affiliated persons or principal underwriters of the Fund.

# Instruction to paragraph (
b

# )(2).
When an individual holds the same position(s) with two or more registered investment companies that are part of the same Fund Complex, identify the Fund Complex and provide the number of registered investment companies for which the position(s) are held rather than listing each registered investment company separately.
(3)(i) For each director or nominee for election as director, briefly discuss the specific experience, qualifications, attributes, or skills that led to the conclusion that the person should serve as a director for the Fund at the time that the disclosure is made in light of the Fund's business and structure. If material, this disclosure should cover more than the past five years, including information about the person's particular areas of expertise or other relevant qualifications.
(ii) Describe briefly any arrangement or understanding between any director, nominee for election as director, Officer, or person chosen to become an Officer, and any other person(s) (naming the person(s)) pursuant to which he was or is to be selected as a director, nominee, or Officer.

# Instruction to paragraph (
b

# )(3)(
ii

# ).
Do not include arrangements or understandings with directors or Officers acting solely in their capacities as such.
(4)(i) Unless disclosed in the table required by paragraph (b)(1) of this Item, describe any positions, including as an officer, employee, director, or general partner, held by any director or nominee for election as director, who is not or would not be an “interested person” of the Fund within the meaning of section 2(a)(19) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(19)), or Immediate Family Member of the director or nominee, during the past five years, with:
(A) The Fund;
(B) An investment company, or a person that would be an investment company but for the exclusions provided by sections 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1) and (c)(7)), having the same investment adviser, principal underwriter, or Sponsoring Insurance Company as the Fund or having an investment adviser, principal underwriter, or Sponsoring Insurance Company that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with an investment adviser, principal underwriter, or Sponsoring Insurance Company of the Fund;
(C) An investment adviser, principal underwriter, Sponsoring Insurance Company, or affiliated person of the Fund; or
(D) Any person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with an investment adviser, principal underwriter, or Sponsoring Insurance Company of the Fund.
(ii) Unless disclosed in the table required by paragraph (b)(1) of this Item or in response to paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this Item, indicate any directorships held during the past five years by each director or nominee for election as director in any company with a class of securities registered pursuant to section 12 of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
l
) or subject to the requirements of section 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)) or any company registered as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
), as amended, and name the companies in which the directorships were held.

# Instruction to paragraph (
b

# )(4).
When an individual holds the same position(s) with two or more portfolios that are part of the same Fund Complex, identify the Fund Complex and provide the number of portfolios for which the position(s) are held rather than listing each portfolio separately.
(5) For each director or nominee for election as director, state the dollar range of equity securities beneficially owned by the director or nominee as required by the following table:
(i) In the Fund; and
(ii) On an aggregate basis, in any registered investment companies overseen or to be overseen by the director or nominee within the same Family of Investment Companies as the Fund.
(1)
(2)
(3)
Name of Director or Nominee
Dollar Range of Equity Securities in the Fund
Aggregate Dollar Range of Equity Securities in All Funds Overseen or to be Overseen by Director or Nominee in Family of Investment Companies

# Instructions to paragraph (
b

# )(5).
1. Information should be provided as of the most recent practicable date. Specify the valuation date by footnote or otherwise.
2. Determine “beneficial ownership” in accordance with rule 16a-1(a)(2) under the Exchange Act (§ 240.16a-1(a)(2)).
3. If action is to be taken with respect to more than one Fund, disclose in column (2) the dollar range of equity securities beneficially owned by a director or nominee in each such Fund overseen or to be overseen by the director or nominee.
4. In disclosing the dollar range of equity securities beneficially owned by a director or nominee in columns (2) and (3), use the following ranges: none, $1-$10,000, $10,001-$50,000, $50,001-$100,000, or over $100,000.
(6) For each director or nominee for election as director who is not or would not be an “interested person” of the Fund within the meaning of section 2(a)(19) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(19), and his Immediate Family Members, furnish the information required by the following table as to each class of securities owned beneficially or of record in:
(i) An investment adviser, principal underwriter, or Sponsoring Insurance Company of the Fund; or
(ii) A person (other than a registered investment company) directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with an investment adviser, principal underwriter, or Sponsoring Insurance Company of the Fund:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
Name of Director or Nominee
Name of Owners and Relationships to Director or Nominee
Company
Title of Class
Value of Securities
Percent of Class

# Instructions to paragraph (
b

# )(6).
1. Information should be provided as of the most recent practicable date. Specify the valuation date by footnote or otherwise.
2. An individual is a “beneficial owner” of a security if he is a “beneficial owner” under either rule 13d-3 or rule 16a-1(a)(2) under the Exchange Act (§§ 240.13d-3 or 240.16a-1(a)(2)).
3. Identify the company in which the director, nominee, or Immediate Family Member of the director or nominee owns securities in column (3). When the company is a person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with an investment adviser, principal underwriter, or Sponsoring Insurance Company, describe the company's relationship with the investment adviser, principal underwriter, or Sponsoring Insurance Company.
4. Provide the information required by columns (5) and (6) on an aggregate basis for each director (or nominee) and his Immediate Family Members.
(7) Unless disclosed in response to paragraph (b)(6) of this Item, describe any direct or indirect interest, the value of which exceeds $120,000, of each director or nominee for election as director who is not or would not be an “interested person” of the Fund within the meaning of section 2(a)(19) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(19)), or Immediate Family Member of the director or nominee, during the past five years, in:
(i) An investment adviser, principal underwriter, or Sponsoring Insurance Company of the Fund; or
(ii) A person (other than a registered investment company) directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with an investment adviser, principal underwriter, or Sponsoring Insurance Company of the Fund.

# Instructions to paragraph (
b

# )(7).
1. A director, nominee, or Immediate Family Member has an interest in a company if he is a party to a contract, arrangement, or understanding with respect to any securities of, or interest in, the company.
2. The interest of the director (or nominee) and the interests of his Immediate Family Members should be aggregated in determining whether the value exceeds $120,000.
(8) Describe briefly any material interest, direct or indirect, of any director or nominee for election as director who is not or would not be an “interested person” of the Fund within the meaning of section 2(a)(19) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(19)), or Immediate Family Member of the director or nominee, in any transaction, or series of similar transactions, since the beginning of the last two completed fiscal years of the Fund, or in any currently proposed transaction, or series of similar transactions, in which the amount involved
exceeds $120,000 and to which any of the following persons was or is to be a party:
(i) The Fund;
(ii) An Officer of the Fund;
(iii) An investment company, or a person that would be an investment company but for the exclusions provided by sections 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1) and (c)(7)), having the same investment adviser, principal underwriter, or Sponsoring Insurance Company as the Fund or having an investment adviser, principal underwriter, or Sponsoring Insurance Company that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with an investment adviser, principal underwriter, or Sponsoring Insurance Company of the Fund;
(iv) An Officer of an investment company, or a person that would be an investment company but for the exclusions provided by sections 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1) and (c)(7)), having the same investment adviser, principal underwriter, or Sponsoring Insurance Company as the Fund or having an investment adviser, principal underwriter, or Sponsoring Insurance Company that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with an investment adviser, principal underwriter, or Sponsoring Insurance Company of the Fund;
(v) An investment adviser, principal underwriter, or Sponsoring Insurance Company of the Fund;
(vi) An Officer of an investment adviser, principal underwriter, or Sponsoring Insurance Company of the Fund;
(vii) A person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with an investment adviser, principal underwriter, or Sponsoring Insurance Company of the Fund; or
(viii) An Officer of a person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with an investment adviser, principal underwriter, or Sponsoring Insurance Company of the Fund.

# Instructions to paragraph (
b

# )(8).
1. Include the name of each director, nominee, or Immediate Family Member whose interest in any transaction or series of similar transactions is described and the nature of the circumstances by reason of which the interest is required to be described.
2. State the nature of the interest, the approximate dollar amount involved in the transaction, and, where practicable, the approximate dollar amount of the interest.
3. In computing the amount involved in the transaction or series of similar transactions, include all periodic payments in the case of any lease or other agreement providing for periodic payments.
4. Compute the amount of the interest of any director, nominee, or Immediate Family Member of the director or nominee without regard to the amount of profit or loss involved in the transaction(s).
5. As to any transaction involving the purchase or sale of assets, state the cost of the assets to the purchaser and, if acquired by the seller within two years prior to the transaction, the cost to the seller. Describe the method used in determining the purchase or sale price and the name of the person making the determination.
6. If the proxy statement relates to multiple portfolios of a series Fund with different fiscal years, then, in determining the date that is the beginning of the last two completed fiscal years of the Fund, use the earliest date of any series covered by the proxy statement.
7. Disclose indirect, as well as direct, material interests in transactions. A person who has a position or relationship with, or interest in, a company that engages in a transaction with one of the persons listed in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) through (b)(8)(viii) of this Item may have an indirect interest in the transaction by reason of the position, relationship, or interest. The interest in the transaction, however, will not be deemed “material” within the meaning of paragraph (b)(8) of this Item where the interest of the director, nominee, or Immediate Family Member arises solely from the holding of an equity interest (including a limited partnership interest, but excluding a general partnership interest) or a creditor interest in a company that is a party to the transaction with one of the persons specified in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) through (b)(8)(viii) of this Item, and the transaction is not material to the company.
8. The materiality of any interest is to be determined on the basis of the significance of the information to investors in light of all the circumstances of the particular case. The importance of the interest to the person having the interest, the relationship of the parties to the transaction with each other, and the amount involved in the transaction are among the factors to be considered in determining the significance of the information to investors.
9. No information need be given as to any transaction where the interest of the director, nominee, or Immediate Family Member arises solely from the ownership of securities of a person specified in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) through (b)(8)(viii) of this Item and the director, nominee, or Immediate Family Member receives no extra or special benefit not shared on a pro rata basis by all holders of the class of securities.
10. Transactions include loans, lines of credit, and other indebtedness. For indebtedness, indicate the largest aggregate amount of indebtedness outstanding at any time during the period, the nature of the indebtedness and the transaction in which it was incurred, the amount outstanding as of the latest practicable date, and the rate of interest paid or charged.
11. No information need be given as to any routine, retail transaction. For example, the Fund need not disclose that a director has a credit card, bank or brokerage account, residential mortgage, or insurance policy with a person specified in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) through (b)(8)(viii) of this Item unless the director is accorded special treatment.
(9) Describe briefly any direct or indirect relationship, in which the amount involved exceeds $120,000, of any director or nominee for election as director who is not or would not be an “interested person” of the Fund within the meaning of section 2(a)(19) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(19)), or Immediate Family Member of the director or nominee, that exists, or has existed at any time since the beginning of the last two completed fiscal years of the Fund, or is currently proposed, with any of the persons specified in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) through (b)(8)(viii) of this Item. Relationships include:
(i) Payments for property or services to or from any person specified in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) through (b)(8)(viii) of this Item;
(ii) Provision of legal services to any person specified in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) through (b)(8)(viii) of this Item;
(iii) Provision of investment banking services to any person specified in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) through (b)(8)(viii) of this Item, other than as a participating underwriter in a syndicate; and
(iv) Any consulting or other relationship that is substantially similar in nature and scope to the relationships listed in paragraphs (b)(9)(i) through (b)(9)(iii) of this Item.

# Instructions to paragraph (
b

# )(9).
1. Include the name of each director, nominee, or Immediate Family Member whose relationship is described and the nature of the circumstances by reason of which the relationship is required to be described.
2. State the nature of the relationship and the amount of business conducted between the director, nominee, or Immediate Family Member and the person specified in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) through (b)(8)(viii) of this Item as a result of the relationship since the beginning of the last two completed fiscal years of the Fund or proposed to be done during the Fund's current fiscal year.
3. In computing the amount involved in a relationship, include all periodic payments in the case of any agreement providing for periodic payments.
4. If the proxy statement relates to multiple portfolios of a series Fund with different fiscal years, then, in determining the date that is the beginning of the last two completed fiscal years of the Fund, use the earliest date of any series covered by the proxy statement.
5. Disclose indirect, as well as direct, relationships. A person who has a position or relationship with, or interest in, a company that has a relationship with one of the persons listed in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) through (b)(8)(viii) of this Item may have an indirect relationship by reason of the position, relationship, or interest.
6. In determining whether the amount involved in a relationship exceeds $120,000, amounts involved in a relationship of the director (or nominee) should be aggregated with those of his Immediate Family Members.
7. In the case of an indirect interest, identify the company with which a person specified in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) through (b)(8)(viii) of this Item has a relationship; the name of the director, nominee, or Immediate Family Member affiliated with the company and the nature of the affiliation; and the amount of business conducted between the company and the person specified in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) through (b)(8)(viii) of this Item since the beginning of the last two completed fiscal years of the Fund or proposed to be done during the Fund's current fiscal year.
8. In calculating payments for property and services for purposes of paragraph (b)(9)(i) of this Item, the following may be excluded:
A. Payments where the transaction involves the rendering of services as a common contract carrier, or public utility, at rates or charges fixed in conformity with law or governmental authority; or
B. Payments that arise solely from the ownership of securities of a person specified in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) through (b)(8)(viii) of this Item and no extra or special benefit not
shared on a pro rata basis by all holders of the class of securities is received.
9. No information need be given as to any routine, retail relationship. For example, the Fund need not disclose that a director has a credit card, bank or brokerage account, residential mortgage, or insurance policy with a person specified in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) through (b)(8)(viii) of this Item unless the director is accorded special treatment.
(10) If an Officer of an investment adviser, principal underwriter, or Sponsoring Insurance Company of the Fund, or an Officer of a person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with an investment adviser, principal underwriter, or Sponsoring Insurance Company of the Fund, serves, or has served since the beginning of the last two completed fiscal years of the Fund, on the board of directors of a company where a director of the Fund or nominee for election as director who is not or would not be an “interested person” of the Fund within the meaning of section 2(a)(19) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(19)), or Immediate Family Member of the director or nominee, is, or was since the beginning of the last two completed fiscal years of the Fund, an Officer, identify:
(i) The company;
(ii) The individual who serves or has served as a director of the company and the period of service as director;
(iii) The investment adviser, principal underwriter, or Sponsoring Insurance Company or person controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the investment adviser, principal underwriter, or Sponsoring Insurance Company where the individual named in paragraph (b)(10)(ii) of this Item holds or held office and the office held; and
(iv) The director of the Fund, nominee for election as director, or Immediate Family Member who is or was an Officer of the company; the office held; and the period of holding the office.

# Instruction to paragraph (
b

# )(10).
If the proxy statement relates to multiple portfolios of a series Fund with different fiscal years, then, in determining the date that is the beginning of the last two completed fiscal years of the Fund, use the earliest date of any series covered by the proxy statement.
(11) Provide in tabular form, to the extent practicable, the information required by Items 401(f) and (g), 404(a), 405, and 407(h) of Regulation S-K (§§ 229.401(f) and (g), 229.404(a), 229.405, and 229.407(h) of this chapter).

# Instruction to paragraph (
b

# )(11).
Information provided under paragraph (b)(8) of this Item 22 is deemed to satisfy the requirements of Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K for information about directors, nominees for election as directors, and Immediate Family Members of directors and nominees, and need not be provided under this paragraph (b)(11).
(12) Describe briefly any material pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to the Fund's business, to which any director or nominee for director or affiliated person of such director or nominee is a party adverse to the Fund or any of its affiliated persons or has a material interest adverse to the Fund or any of its affiliated persons. Include the name of the court where the case is pending, the date instituted, the principal parties, a description of the factual basis alleged to underlie the proceeding, and the relief sought.
(13) In the case of a Fund that is an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a), for all directors, and for each of the three highest-paid Officers that have aggregate compensation from the Fund for the most recently completed fiscal year in excess of $60,000 (“Compensated Persons”):
(i) Furnish the information required by the following table for the last fiscal year:
Compensation Table
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
Name of Person, Position
Aggregate Compensation From Fund
Pension or Retirement Benefits Accrued as Part of Fund Expenses
Estimated Annual Benefits Upon Retirement
Total Compensation From Fund and Complex Paid to Directors

# Instructions to paragraph (
b

# )(13)(
i

# ).
1. For column (1), indicate, if necessary, the capacity in which the remuneration is received. For Compensated Persons that are directors of the Fund, compensation is amounts received for service as a director.
2. If the Fund has not completed its first full year since its organization, furnish the information for the current fiscal year, estimating future payments that would be made pursuant to an existing agreement or understanding. Disclose in a footnote to the Compensation Table the period for which the information is furnished.
3. Include in column (2) amounts deferred at the election of the Compensated Person, whether pursuant to a plan established under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 401(k)) or otherwise, for the fiscal year in which earned. Disclose in a footnote to the Compensation Table the total amount of deferred compensation (including interest) payable to or accrued for any Compensated Person.
4. Include in columns (3) and (4) all pension or retirement benefits proposed to be paid under any existing plan in the event of retirement at normal retirement date, directly or indirectly, by the Fund or any of its Subsidiaries, or by other companies in the Fund Complex. Omit column (4) where retirement benefits are not determinable.
5. For any defined benefit or actuarial plan under which benefits are determined primarily by final compensation (or average final compensation) and years of service, provide the information required in column (4) in a separate table showing estimated annual benefits payable upon retirement (including amounts attributable to any defined benefit supplementary or excess pension award plans) in specified compensation and years of service classifications. Also provide the estimated credited years of service for each Compensated Person.
6. Include in column (5) only aggregate compensation paid to a director for service on the board and other boards of investment companies in a Fund Complex specifying the number of such other investment companies.
(ii) Describe briefly the material provisions of any pension, retirement, or other plan or any arrangement other than fee arrangements disclosed in paragraph (b)(13)(i) of this Item pursuant to which Compensated Persons are or may be compensated for any services provided, including amounts paid, if any, to the Compensated Person under any such arrangements during the most recently completed fiscal year. Specifically include the criteria used to determine amounts payable under any plan, the length of service or vesting period required by the plan, the retirement age or other event that gives rise to payments under the plan, and whether the payment of benefits is secured or funded by the Fund.
(14) State whether or not the Fund has a separately designated audit committee established in accordance with section 3(a)(58)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(58)(A)). If the entire board of directors is acting as the Fund's audit committee as specified in section 3(a)(58)(B) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(58)(B)), so state. If applicable, provide the disclosure required by § 240.10A-3(d) regarding an exemption from the listing standards for audit committees. Identify the other standing committees of the Fund's board of directors, and provide the following information about each committee, including any separately designated audit committee and any nominating committee:
(i) A concise statement of the functions of the committee;
(ii) The members of the committee and, in the case of a nominating committee, whether or not the members of the committee are “interested persons” of the Fund as defined in section 2(a)(19) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(19)); and
(iii) The number of committee meetings held during the last fiscal year.

# Instruction to paragraph (
b

# )(14):
For purposes of Item 22(b)(14), the term “nominating committee” refers not only to nominating committees and committees performing similar functions, but also to groups of directors fulfilling the role of a nominating committee, including the entire board of directors.
(15)(i) Provide the information (and in the format) required by Items 407(b)(1), (b)(2) and (f) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.407(b)(1), (b)(2) and (f) of this chapter); and
(ii) Provide the following regarding the requirements for the director nomination process:
(A) The information (and in the format) required by Items 407(c)(1) and (c)(2) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.407(c)(1) and (c)(2) of this chapter); and
(B) If the Fund is a listed issuer (as defined in § 240.10A-3 of this chapter) whose securities are listed on a national securities exchange registered
pursuant to section 6(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78f(a)) or in an automated inter-dealer quotation system of a national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-3(a)) that has independence requirements for nominating committee members, identify each director that is a member of the nominating committee that is not independent under the independence standards described in this paragraph. In determining whether the nominating committee members are independent, use the Fund's definition of independence that it uses for determining if the members of the nominating committee are independent in compliance with the independence standards applicable for the members of the nominating committee in the listing standards applicable to the Fund. If the Fund does not have independence standards for the nominating committee, use the independence standards for the nominating committee in the listing standards applicable to the Fund.

# Instruction to paragraph (
b

# )(15)(
ii

# )(B).
If the national securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system on which the Fund's securities are listed has exemptions to the independence requirements for nominating committee members upon which the Fund relied, disclose the exemption relied upon and explain the basis for the Fund's conclusion that such exemption is applicable.
(16) In the case of a Fund that is a closed-end investment company:
(i) Provide the information (and in the format) required by Item 407(d)(1), (d)(2) and (d)(3) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.407(d)(1), (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this chapter); and
(ii) Identify each director that is a member of the Fund's audit committee that is not independent under the independence standards described in this paragraph. If the Fund does not have a separately designated audit committee, or committee performing similar functions, the Fund must provide the disclosure with respect to all members of its board of directors.
(A) If the Fund is a listed issuer (as defined in § 240.10A-3 of this chapter) whose securities are listed on a national securities exchange registered pursuant to section 6(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78f(a)) or in an automated inter-dealer quotation system of a national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-3(a)) that has independence requirements for audit committee members, in determining whether the audit committee members are independent, use the Fund's definition of independence that it uses for determining if the members of the audit committee are independent in compliance with the independence standards applicable for the members of the audit committee in the listing standards applicable to the Fund. If the Fund does not have independence standards for the audit committee, use the independence standards for the audit committee in the listing standards applicable to the Fund.
(B) If the Fund is not a listed issuer whose securities are listed on a national securities exchange registered pursuant to section 6(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78f(a)) or in an automated inter-dealer quotation system of a national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-3(a)), in determining whether the audit committee members are independent, use a definition of independence of a national securities exchange registered pursuant to section 6(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78f(a)) or an automated inter-dealer quotation system of a national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 780-3(a)) which has requirements that a majority of the board of directors be independent and that has been approved by the Commission, and state which definition is used. Whatever such definition the Fund chooses, it must use the same definition with respect to all directors and nominees for director. If the national securities exchange or national securities association whose standards are used has independence standards for the members of the audit committee, use those specific standards.

# Instruction to paragraph (
b

# )(16)(
ii

# ).
If the national securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system on which the Fund's securities are listed has exemptions to the independence requirements for nominating committee members upon which the Fund relied, disclose the exemption relied upon and explain the basis for the Fund's conclusion that such exemption is applicable. The same disclosure should be provided if the Fund is
not a listed issuer and the national securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system selected by the Fund has exemptions that are applicable to the Fund.
(17) In the case of a Fund that is an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a), if a director has resigned or declined to stand for re-election to the board of directors since the date of the last annual meeting of security holders because of a disagreement with the registrant on any matter relating to the registrant's operations, policies or practices, and if the director has furnished the registrant with a letter describing such disagreement and requesting that the matter be disclosed, the registrant shall state the date of resignation or declination to stand for re-election and summarize the director's description of the disagreement. If the registrant believes that the description provided by the director is incorrect or incomplete, it may include a brief statement presenting its view of the disagreement.
(18) [Reserved]
(19) If a Fund is required to include a shareholder nominee or nominees submitted to the Fund for inclusion in the Fund's proxy materials pursuant to a procedure set forth under applicable state or foreign law or the Fund's governing documents providing for the inclusion of shareholder director nominees in the Fund's proxy materials, the Fund must include in its proxy statement the disclosure required from the nominating shareholder or nominating shareholder group under Item 6 of § 240.14n-101 with regard to the nominee or nominees and the nominating shareholder or nominating shareholder group.

# Instruction to paragraph (
b

# )(19).
The information disclosed pursuant to paragraph (b)(19) of this Item will not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
), the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), or the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
), except to the extent that the Fund specifically incorporates that information by reference.
(20) In the case of a Fund that is an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a) that is required to develop and implement a policy regarding the recovery of erroneously awarded compensation pursuant to § 240.10D-1(b)(1), if at any time during the last completed fiscal year the Fund was required to prepare an accounting restatement that required recovery of erroneously awarded compensation pursuant to the Fund's compensation recovery policy required by the listing standards adopted pursuant to 240.10D-1, or there was an outstanding balance as of the end of the last completed fiscal year of erroneously awarded compensation to be recovered from the application of the policy to a prior restatement, the Fund must provide the information required by Item 18 of Form N-CSR, as applicable.
(c)
Approval of investment advisory contract.
If action is to be taken with respect to an investment advisory contract, include the following information in the proxy statement.
Instruction.
Furnish information with respect to a prospective investment adviser to the extent applicable (including the name and address of the prospective investment adviser).
(1) With respect to the existing investment advisory contract:
(i) State the date of the contract and the date on which it was last submitted to a vote of security holders of the Fund, including the purpose of such submission;
(ii) Briefly describe the terms of the contract, including the rate of compensation of the investment adviser;
(iii) State the aggregate amount of the investment adviser's fee and the amount and purpose of any other material payments by the Fund to the investment adviser, or any affiliated person of the investment adviser, during the last fiscal year of the Fund;
(iv) If any person is acting as an investment adviser of the Fund other than pursuant to a written contract that has been approved by the security holders of the company, identify the person and describe the nature of the services and arrangements;
(v) Describe any action taken with respect to the investment advisory contract since the beginning of the Fund's last fiscal year by the board of directors of the Fund (unless described
in response to paragraph (c)(1)(vi)) of this Item 22); and
(vi) If an investment advisory contract was terminated or not renewed for any reason, state the date of such termination or non-renewal, identify the parties involved, and describe the circumstances of such termination or non-renewal.
(2) State the name, address and principal occupation of the principal executive officer and each director or general partner of the investment adviser.
Instruction.
If the investment adviser is a partnership with more than ten general partners, name:
(i) The general partners with the five largest economic interests in the partnership, and, if different, those general partners comprising the management or executive committee of the partnership or exercising similar authority;
(ii) The general partners with significant management responsibilities relating to the fund.
(3) State the names and addresses of all Parents of the investment adviser and show the basis of control of the investment adviser and each Parent by its immediate Parent.
Instructions.
1. If any person named is a corporation, include the percentage of its voting securities owned by its immediate Parent.
2. If any person named is a partnership, name the general partners having the three largest partnership interests (computed by whatever method is appropriate in the particular case).
(4) If the investment adviser is a corporation and if, to the knowledge of the persons making the solicitation or the persons on whose behalf the solicitation is made, any person not named in answer to paragraph (c)(3) of this Item 22 owns, of record or beneficially, ten percent or more of the outstanding voting securities of the investment adviser, indicate that fact and state the name and address of each such person.
(5) Name each officer or director of the Fund who is an officer, employee, director, general partner or shareholder of the investment adviser. As to any officer or director who is not a director or general partner of the investment adviser and who owns securities or has any other material direct or indirect interest in the investment adviser or any other person controlling, controlled by or under common control with the investment adviser, describe the nature of such interest.
(6) Describe briefly and state the approximate amount of, where practicable, any material interest, direct or indirect, of any director of the Fund in any material transactions since the beginning of the most recently completed fiscal year, or in any material proposed transactions, to which the investment adviser of the Fund, any Parent or Subsidiary of the investment adviser (other than another Fund), or any Subsidiary of the Parent of such entities was or is to be a party.
Instructions.
1. Include the name of each person whose interest in any transaction is described and the nature of the relationship by reason of which such interest is required to be described. Where it is not practicable to state the approximate amount of the interest, indicate the approximate amount involved in the transaction.
2. As to any transaction involving the purchase or sale of assets by or to the investment adviser, state the cost of the assets to the purchaser and the cost thereof to the seller if acquired by the seller within two years prior to the transaction.
3. If the interest of any person arises from the position of the person as a partner in a partnership, the proportionate interest of such person in transactions to which the partnership is a party need not be set forth, but state the amount involved in the transaction with the partnership.
4. No information need be given in response to this paragraph (c)(6) of Item 22 with respect to any transaction that is not related to the business or operations of the Fund and to which neither the Fund nor any of its Parents or Subsidiaries is a party.
(7) Disclose any financial condition of the investment adviser that is reasonably likely to impair the financial ability of the adviser to fulfill its commitment to the fund under the proposed investment advisory contract.
(8) Describe the nature of the action to be taken on the investment advisory contract and the reasons therefor, the terms of the contract to be acted upon, and, if the action is an amendment to,
or a replacement of, an investment advisory contract, the material differences between the current and proposed contract.
(9) If a change in the investment advisory fee is sought, state:
(i) The aggregate amount of the investment adviser's fee during the last year;
(ii) The amount that the adviser would have received had the proposed fee been in effect; and
(iii) The difference between the aggregate amounts stated in response to paragraphs (i) and (ii) of this item (c)(9) as a percentage of the amount stated in response to paragraph (i) of this item (c)(9).
(10) If the investment adviser acts as such with respect to any other Fund having a similar investment objective, identify and state the size of such other Fund and the rate of the investment adviser's compensation. Also indicate for any Fund identified whether the investment adviser has waived, reduced, or otherwise agreed to reduce its compensation under any applicable contract.
Instruction.
Furnish the information in response to this paragraph (c)(10) of Item 22 in tabular form.
(11) Discuss in reasonable detail the material factors and the conclusions with respect thereto that form the basis for the recommendation of the board of directors that the shareholders approve an investment advisory contract. Include the following in the discussion:
(i) Factors relating to both the board's selection of the investment adviser and approval of the advisory fee and any other amounts to be paid by the Fund under the contract. This would include, but not be limited to, a discussion of the nature, extent, and quality of the services to be provided by the investment adviser; the investment performance of the Fund and the investment adviser; the costs of the services to be provided and profits to be realized by the investment adviser and its affiliates from the relationship with the Fund; the extent to which economies of scale would be realized as the Fund grows; and whether fee levels reflect these economies of scale for the benefit of Fund investors. Also indicate in the discussion whether the board relied upon comparisons of the services to be rendered and the amounts to be paid under the contract with those under other investment advisory contracts, such as contracts of the same and other investment advisers with other registered investment companies or other types of clients (e.g., pension funds and other institutional investors). If the board relied upon such comparisons, describe the comparisons that were relied on and how they assisted the board in determining to recommend that the shareholders approve the advisory contract; and
(ii) If applicable, any benefits derived or to be derived by the investment adviser from the relationship with the Fund such as soft dollar arrangements by which brokers provide research to the Fund or its investment adviser in return for allocating Fund brokerage.
Instructions.
1. Conclusory statements or a list of factors will not be considered sufficient disclosure. Relate the factors to the specific circumstances of the Fund and the investment advisory contract for which approval is sought and state how the board evaluated each factor. For example, it is not sufficient to state that the board considered the amount of the investment advisory fee without stating what the board concluded about the amount of the fee and how that affected its determination to recommend approval of the contract.
2. If any factor enumerated in paragraph (c)(11)(i) of this Item 22 is not relevant to the board's evaluation of the investment advisory contract for which approval is sought, note this and explain the reasons why that factor is not relevant.
(12) Describe any arrangement or understanding made in connection with the proposed investment advisory contract with respect to the composition of the board of directors of the Fund or the investment adviser or with respect to the selection or appointment of any person to any office with either such company.
(13) For the most recently completed fiscal year, state:
(i) The aggregate amount of commissions paid to any Affiliated Broker; and
(ii) The percentage of the Fund's aggregate brokerage commissions paid to any such Affiliated Broker.
Instruction.
Identify each Affiliated Broker and the relationships that cause the broker to be an Affiliated Broker.
(14) Disclose the amount of any fees paid by the Fund to the investment adviser, its affiliated persons or any affiliated person of such person during the most recent fiscal year for services provided to the Fund (other than under the investment advisory contract or for brokerage commissions). State whether these services will continue to be provided after the investment advisory contract is approved.
(d)
Approval of distribution plan.
If action is to be taken with respect to a Distribution Plan, include the following information in the proxy statement.
Instruction.
Furnish information on a prospective basis to the extent applicable.
(1) Describe the nature of the action to be taken on the Distribution Plan and the reason therefor, the terms of the Distribution Plan to be acted upon, and, if the action is an amendment to, or a replacement of, a Distribution Plan, the material differences between the current and proposed Distribution Plan.
(2) If the Fund has a Distribution Plan in effect:
(i) Provide the date that the Distribution Plan was adopted and the date of the last amendment, if any;
(ii) Disclose the persons to whom payments may be made under the Distribution Plan, the rate of the distribution fee and the purposes for which such fee may be used;
(iii) Disclose the amount of distribution fees paid by the Fund pursuant to the plan during its most recent fiscal year, both in the aggregate and as a percentage of the Fund's average net assets during the period;
(iv) Disclose the name of, and the amount of any payments made under the Distribution Plan by the Fund during its most recent fiscal year to, any person who is an affiliated person of the Fund, its investment adviser, principal underwriter, or Administrator, an affiliated person of such person, or a person that during the most recent fiscal year received 10% or more of the aggregate amount paid under the Distribution Plan by the Fund;
(v) Describe any action taken with respect to the Distribution Plan since the beginning of the Fund's most recent fiscal year by the board of directors of the Fund; and
(vi) If a Distribution Plan was or is to be terminated or not renewed for any reason, state the date or prospective date of such termination or non-renewal, identify the parties involved, and describe the circumstances of such termination or non-renewal.
(3) Describe briefly and state the approximate amount of, where practicable, any material interest, direct or indirect, of any director or nominee for election as a director of the Fund in any material transactions since the beginning of the most recently completed fiscal year, or in any material proposed transactions, to which any person identified in response to Item 22(d)(2)(iv) was or is to be a party.
Instructions. 1.
Include the name of each person whose interest in any transaction is described and the nature of the relationship by reason of which such interest is required to be described. Where it is not practicable to state the approximate amount of the interest, indicate the approximate amount involved in the transaction.
2. As to any transaction involving the purchase or sale of assets, state the cost of the assets to the purchaser and the cost thereof to the seller if acquired by the seller within two years prior to the transaction.
3. If the interest of any person arises from the position of the person as a partner in a partnership, the proportionate interest of such person in transactions to which the partnership is a party need not be set forth but state the amount involved in the transaction with the partnership.
4. No information need be given in response to this paragraph (d)(3) of Item 22 with respect to any transaction that is not related to the business or operations of the Fund and to which neither the Fund nor any of its Parents or Subsidiaries is a party.
(4) Discuss in reasonable detail the material factors and the conclusions
with respect thereto which form the basis for the conclusion of the board of directors that there is a reasonable likelihood that the proposed Distribution Plan (or amendment thereto) will benefit the Fund and its shareholders.
Instruction.
Conclusory statements or a list of factors will not be considered sufficient disclosure.
Item 23. Delivery of documents to security holders sharing an address.
If one annual report to security holders, proxy statement, or Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials is being delivered to two or more security holders who share an address in accordance with § 240.14a-3(e)(1), furnish the following information:
(a) State that only one annual report to security holders, proxy statement, or Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, as applicable, is being delivered to multiple security holders sharing an address unless the registrant has received contrary instructions from one or more of the security holders;
(b) Undertake to deliver promptly upon written or oral request a separate copy of the annual report to security holders, proxy statement, or Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, as applicable, to a security holder at a shared address to which a single copy of the documents was delivered and provide instructions as to how a security holder can notify the registrant that the security holder wishes to receive a separate copy of an annual report to security holders, proxy statement, or Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, as applicable;
(c) Provide the phone number and mailing address to which a security holder can direct a notification to the registrant that the security holder wishes to receive a separate annual report to security holders, proxy statement, or Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, as applicable, in the future; and
(d) Provide instructions how security holders sharing an address can request delivery of a single copy of annual reports to security holders, proxy statements, or Notices of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials if they are receiving multiple copies of annual reports to security holders, proxy statements, or Notices of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials.
Item 24. Shareholder Approval of Executive Compensation.
Registrants required to provide any of the separate shareholder votes pursuant to § 240.14a-21 of this chapter shall disclose that they are providing each such vote as required pursuant to section 14A of the Securities Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78n-1), briefly explain the general effect of each vote, such as whether each such vote is non-binding, and, when applicable, disclose the current frequency of shareholder advisory votes on executive compensation required by Rule 14a-21(a) and when the next such shareholder advisory vote will occur.
Item 25. Exhibits.
Provide each of the following in an exhibit to this Schedule 14A:
(a) The legal opinion required to be filed by Item 402(u)(4)(i) of Regulation S-K (17 CFR 229.402(u));
(b) If the transaction is a de-SPAC transaction, as defined in § 229.1601(a) (Item 1601(a) of Regulation S-K), all reports, opinions, or appraisals required to be filed or included by § 229.1607(c) (Item 1607(c) of Regulation S-K); and
(c) If a fee is required, the title of each class of securities to which the transaction applies, aggregate number of securities to which the transaction applies, per unit price or other underlying value of the transaction computed pursuant to § 240.0-11, proposed maximum aggregate value of the transaction, fee rate, amount of filing fee and, as applicable, information relating to reliance on § 240.0-11(a)(2) in the tabular form indicated.
Registered funds that must pay registration fees using Form 24F-2 (§ 274.24) are not required to respond to this Item.

# Calculation of Filing Fee Tables
Table 1—Transaction Valuation
Proposed
maximum
aggregate
value of
transaction
Fee rate
Amount of
filing fee
Fees to Be Paid
X
X
X
Fees Previously Paid
X
X
Total Transaction Valuation
X
Total Fees Due for Filing
X
Total Fees Previously Paid
X
Total Fee Offsets
X
Net Fee Due
X
Table 2—Fee Offset Claims and Sources
Registrant or filer name
Form or
filing type
File number
Initial filing date
Filing date
Fee offset claimed
Fee paid with fee
offset source
Fee Offset Claims
X
X
X
X
Fee Offset Sources
X
X
X
X
X
Instructions to the Calculation of Filing Fee Tables and Related Disclosure (“Instructions”):
1. General Requirements.
A. Applicable Table Requirements.
The “X” designation indicates the information required to be disclosed, as applicable, in tabular format. Add as many rows of each table as necessary.
B. Fee Rate.
For the current fee rate,
see https://www.sec.gov/ofm/Article/feeamt.html.
C. Explanations.
Disclose the (i) title of each class of securities to which the transaction applies; (ii) aggregate number of securities to which the transaction apples; and (iii) per unit price or other underlying value of the transaction computed pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 0-11 (set forth the amount on which the filing fee is calculated and state how it was determined). If not otherwise explained in response to these instructions, disclose specific details relating to the fee calculation as necessary to clarify the information presented in each table, including references to the applicable provisions of Rule 0-11 (§ 240.0-11 of this chapter). All disclosure these Instructions require that is not specifically required to be presented in tabular format must appear in narrative format immediately after the table(s) to which it corresponds.
D. Submission Method.
If a filing fee exhibit is required to be provided pursuant to this Item 25(b), it must be submitted as required by Rule 408 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.408 of this chapter).
2. Table 1: Transaction Valuation Table and Related Disclosure.
A. Fees to Be Paid and Fees Previously Paid.
i. Fees to Be Paid.
Provide the information Table 1 requires for the line item “Fees to Be Paid” as follows:
b. Initial Filings.
For an initial filing on this schedule, provide the required information for the total transaction valuation.
c. Amendments with Then-Current Total Transaction Valuation Higher than Highest Total Transaction Valuation Previously Reported.
For amendments to this schedule that reflect a then-current total transaction valuation higher than the highest total transaction valuation previously reported, provide the required information for the incremental increase.
ii. Fees Previously Paid.
Provide the information Table 1 requires for the line item “Fees Previously Paid” for the prior initial filing or amendment to this schedule that reflected a then-current total transaction valuation that was the highest total transaction valuation previously reported.
B. Other Tabular Information.
Provide the following information in the table for the line items “Fees to be Paid” and “Fees Previously Paid”, as applicable:
i. The proposed maximum aggregate value of the transaction computed pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 0-11;
ii. The fee rate; and
iii. The filing fee due without regard to any previous payments or offsets.
C. Totals.
i. Total Transaction Valuation.
Provide the sum of the proposed maximum aggregate values for the line items “Fees to Be Paid” and “Fees Previously Paid”.
ii. Total Fees Due for Filing.
Provide the sum of the fees due without regard to any previous payments or offsets for the line items “Fees to be Paid” and “Fees Previously Paid.”
iii. Total Fees Previously Paid.
Provide the aggregate of filing fees previously paid with this filing.
iv. Total Fee Offsets.
Provide the aggregate of the fee offsets that are claimed in Table 2 pursuant to Instruction 3.
v. Net Fee Due.
Provide the difference between (a) the total fees due for this schedule from the Total Fees Due for Filing row; and (b) the sum of (i) the aggregate of filing fees previously paid from the Total Fees Previously Paid row; and (ii) the aggregate fee offsets claimed from the Total Fee Offsets row.
D. Narrative Disclosure.
Explain how the transaction valuation was determined.
3. Table 2: Fee Offset Claims and Sources.
A. Terminology.
For purposes of this Instruction 3 and Table 2, the term “submission” means any (i) initial filing of, or amendment (pre-effective or post-effective), to a fee-bearing document; or (ii) fee-bearing form of prospectus filed under Rule 424 under the Securities Act (§ 230.424 of this chapter), in all cases that was accompanied by a contemporaneous fee payment. For purposes of these instructions to Table 2, a contemporaneous fee payment is the payment of a required fee that is satisfied through the actual transfer of funds, and does not include any amount of a required fee satisfied through a claimed fee offset. Instruction 3.B.ii requires a filer that claims a fee offset under Rule 0-11(a)(2) to identify previous submissions with contemporaneous fee payments that are the original source to which the fee offsets claimed on this filing can be traced.
See
Instruction 3.C for an example.
B. Rule 0-11(a)(2).
If relying on Rule 0-11(a)(2) to offset some or all of the filing fee due on this schedule by amounts paid in connection with earlier filings (other than this Schedule 14A) relating to the same transaction, provide the following information:
i. Fee Offset Claims.
For each earlier filed Securities Act registration statement or Exchange Act document relating to the same transaction from which a fee offset is being claimed, provide the information that Table 2 requires for the line item “Fee Offset Claims”. The “Fee Offset Claimed” column requires the dollar amount of the previously paid filing fee to be offset against the currently due fee.
Note to Instruction 3.B.i.
If claiming an offset from a Securities Act registration statement, provide a detailed explanation of the basis for the claimed offset.
ii. Fee Offset Sources.
With respect to amounts claimed as an offset under Rule 0-11(a)(2), identify those submissions with contemporaneous fee payments that are the original source to which those amounts can be traced. For each submission identified, provide the information that Table 2 requires for the line item “Fee
Offset Sources”. The “Fee Paid with Fee Offset Source” column requires the dollar amount of the contemporaneous fee payment made with respect to each identified submission that is the source of the fee offset claimed pursuant to Rule 0-11(a)(2).
C. Fee Offset Source Submission Identification Example.
A filer:
• Initially files a registration statement on Form S-1 on 1/15/20X1 (assigned file number 333-123456) with a fee payment of $10,000;
• Files pre-effective amendment number 1 to the Form S-1 (333-123456) on 2/15/20X1 with a fee payment of $15,000 and the registration statement goes effective on 2/20/20X1;
• Initially files a registration statement on Form S-1 on 1/15/20X4 (assigned file number 333-123467) with a fee payment of $25,000 and relies on Rule 457(p) to claim an offset of $10,000 related to the unsold securities registered on the previously filed Form S-1 (333-123456) and apply it to the $35,000 filing fee due and the registration statement goes effective on 2/15/20X4.
• Initially files a registration statement related to a tender offer on Form S-4 (assigned file number 333-123478) on 1/15/20X7 with a fee payment of $15,000 and relies on Rule 457(p) to claim an offset of $30,000 related to the unsold securities registered on the most recently effective Form S-1 (333-123467) filed on 1/15/20X4 and apply it to the $45,000 filing fee due.
• Initially files a Schedule TO related to the same tender offer on 1/22/20X7 and relies on Rule 0-11(a)(2) to claim an offset of $45,000 from the fee paid directly and by offset claimed on the Form S-4 (333-123478) filed 1/15/20X7 and apply it to the $45,000 filing fee due.
For the Schedule TO filed on 1/22/20X7, the filer can satisfy the submission identification requirement when it claims the $45,000 fee offset from the Form S-4 (333-123478) filed on 1/15/20X7 by referencing any combination of the Form S-4 (333-123478) filed on 1/15/20X7, the Form S-1 (333-123467) filed on 1/15/20X4, the pre-effective amendment to the Form S-1 (333-123456) filed on 2/15/20X1 or the initial filing of the Form S-1 (333-123456) on 1/15/20X1 in relation to which contemporaneous fee payments were made equal to $45,000. One example could be:
• The Form S-4 (333-123478) filed on 1/15/20X7 in relation to the payment of $15,000 made with that submission;
• the Form S-1 (333-123467) filed on 1/15/20X4 in relation to the payment of $25,000 made with that submission; and
• the pre-effective amendment to the Form S-1 (333-123456) filed on 2/15/20X1 in relation to the payment of $5,000 out of the payment of $15,000 made with that submission (it would not matter if the filer cited to this pre-effective amendment and/or the initial submission of this Form S-1 (333-123456) on 1/15/20X1 as long as singly or together they were cited as relating to a total of $5,000 in this example).
In this example, the filer could not satisfy the submission identification requirement solely by citing to the Form S-4 (333-123478) filed on 1/15/20X7 because even though the offset claimed and available from that filing was $45,000, the contemporaneous fee payment made with that filing ($15,000) was less than the offset being claimed. As a result, the filer must also identify a prior submission or submissions with an aggregate of contemporaneous fee payment(s) of $30,000 as the original source(s) to which the rest of the claimed offset can be traced.
[51 FR 42063, Nov. 20, 1986; 51 FR 45576, Dec. 19, 1986]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 240.14a-101, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 240.14a-102
[Reserved]
§ 240.14a-103
Notice of Exempt Solicitation. Information to be included in statements submitted by or on behalf of a person pursuant to § 240.14a-6(g).

# U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Washington, DC 20549

# Notice of Exempt Solicitation
1. Name of the Registrant:
2. Name of person relying on exemption:
3. Address of person relying on exemption:
4. Written materials. Attach written material required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 14a-6(g)(1) [§ 240.14a-6(g)(1)].
[57 FR 48294, Oct. 22, 1992, as amended at 89 FR 14323, Feb. 26, 2024]
§ 240.14a-104
Notice of Exempt Preliminary Roll-up Communication. Information regarding ownership interests and any potential conflicts of interest to be included in statements submitted by or on behalf of a person pursuant to § 240.14a-2(b)(4) and § 240.14a-6(n).

# United States Securities and Exchange Commission Washington, D.C. 20549

# Notice of Exempt Preliminary Roll-Up Communication
1. Name of registrant appearing on Securities Act of 1933 registration statement for the roll-up transaction (or, if registration statement has not been filed, name of entity into which partnerships are to be rolled up):
2. Name of partnership that is the subject of the proposed roll-up transaction:
3. Name of person relying on exemption:
4. Address of person relying on exemption:
5. Ownership interest of security holder in partnership that is the subject of the proposed roll-up transaction:

# Note:
To the extent that the holder owns securities in any other entities involved in this roll-up transaction, disclosure of these interests also should be made.
6. Describe any and all relations of the holder to the parties to the transaction or to the transaction itself:
a. The holder is engaged in the business of buying and selling limited partnership interests in the secondary market would be adversely affected if the roll-up transaction were completed.
b. The holder would suffer direct (or indirect) material financial injury if the roll-up transaction were completed since it is a service provider to an affected limited partnership.
c. The holder is engaged in another transaction that may be competitive with the pending roll-up transaction.
d. Any other relations to the parties involved in the transaction or to the transaction itself, or any benefits enjoyed by the holder not shared on a pro rata basis by all other holders of the same class of securities of the partnership that is the subject of the proposed roll-up transaction.
[59 FR 63685, Dec. 8, 1994]
§ 240.14Ad-1
Report of proxy voting record.
(a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, every institutional investment manager (as that term is defined in section 13(f)(6)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(f)(6)(A))) that is required to file reports under section 13(f) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(f)) must file an annual report on Form N-PX (§§ 249.326 and 274.129 of this chapter) not later than August 31 of each year, for the most recent 12-month period ended June 30, containing the institutional investment manager's proxy voting record for each shareholder vote pursuant to sections 14A(a) and (b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78n-1(a) and (b)) with respect to each security over which the manager exercised voting power (as defined in paragraph (d) of this section).
(b) An institutional investment manager is not required to file a report on Form N-PX (§§ 249.326 and 274.129 of this chapter) for the 12-month period ending June 30 of the calendar year in which the manager's initial filing on Form 13F (§ 249.325 of this chapter) is due pursuant to § 240.13f-1. For purposes of this paragraph (b), “initial filing” on Form 13F means any quarterly filing on Form 13F if no filing on Form 13F was required for the immediately preceding calendar quarter.
(c) An institutional investment manager is not required to file a report on Form N-PX (§§ 249.326 and 274.129 of this chapter) with respect to any shareholder vote at a meeting that occurs after September 30 of the calendar year in which the manager's final filing on Form 13F (§ 249.325 of this chapter) is due pursuant to § 240.13f-1. An institutional investment manager is required to file a Form N-PX for the period July
1 through September 30 of the calendar year in which the manager's final filing on Form 13F is due pursuant to § 240.13f-1; this filing is required to be made not later than March 1 of the immediately following calendar year. For purposes of this paragraph (c), “final filing” on Form 13F means any quarterly filing on Form 13F if no filing on Form 13F is required for the immediately subsequent calendar quarter.
(d) For purposes of this section:
(1)
Voting power
means the ability, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, or relationship, to vote a security or direct the voting of a security, including the ability to determine whether to vote a security or to recall a loaned security.
(2)
Exercise
of voting power means using voting power to influence a voting decision with respect to a security.
[87 FR 78808, Dec. 22, 2022]
§ 240.14b-1
Obligation of registered brokers and dealers in connection with the prompt forwarding of certain communications to beneficial owners.
(a)
Definitions.
Unless the context otherwise requires, all terms used in this section shall have the same meanings as in the Act and, with respect to proxy soliciting material, as in § 240.14a-1 thereunder and, with respect to information statements, as in § 240.14c-1 thereunder. In addition, as used in this section, the term “registrant” means:
(1) The issuer of a class of securities registered pursuant to section 12 of the Act; or
(2) An investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
(b)
Dissemination and beneficial owner information requirements.
A broker or dealer registered under Section 15 of the Act shall comply with the following requirements for disseminating certain communications to beneficial owners and providing beneficial owner information to registrants.
(1) The broker or dealer shall respond, by first class mail or other equally prompt means, directly to the registrant no later than seven business days after the date it receives an inquiry made in accordance with § 240.14a-13(a) or § 240.14c-7(a) by indicting, by means of a search card or otherwise:
(i) The approximate number of customers of the broker or dealer who are beneficial owners of the registrant's securities that are held of record by the broker, dealer, or its nominee;
(ii) The number of customers of the broker or dealer who are beneficial owners of the registrant's securities who have objected to disclosure of their names, addresses,and securities positions if the registrant has indicated, pursuant to § 240.14a-13(a)(1)(ii)(A) or § 240.14c-7(a)(1)(ii)(A), that it will distribute the annual report to security holders to beneficial owners of its securities whose names, addresses and securities positions are disclosed pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section; and
(iii) The identity of the designated agent of the broker or dealer, if any, acting on its behalf in fulfilling its obligations under paragraph (b)(3) of this section;
Provided, however,
that if the broker or dealer has informed the registrant that a designated office(s) or department(s) is to receive such inquiries, receipt for purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall mean receipt by such designated office(s) or department(s).
(2) The broker or dealer shall, upon receipt of the proxy, other proxy soliciting material, information statement, and/or annual report to security holders from the registrant or other soliciting person, forward such materials to its customers who are beneficial owners of the registrant's securities no later than five business days after receipt of the proxy material, information statement or annual report to security holders.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# )(2):
At the request of a registrant, or on its own initiative so long as the registrant does not object, a broker or dealer may, but is not required to, deliver one annual report to security holders, proxy statement, information statement, or Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials to more than one beneficial owner sharing an address if the requirements set forth in § 240.14a-3(e)(1) (with respect to annual reports to security holders, proxy statements, and Notices of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials) and § 240.14c-3(c) (with respect to annual reports to security
holders, information statements, and Notices of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials) applicable to registrants, with the exception of § 240.14a-3(e)(1)(i)(E), are satisfied instead by the broker or dealer.
(3) The broker or dealer shall, through its agent or directly:
(i) Provide the registrant, upon the registrant's request, with the names, addresses, and securities positions, compiled as of a date specified in the registrant's request which is no earlier than five business days after the date the registrant's request is received, of its customers who are beneficial owners of the registrant's securities and who have not objected to disclosure of such information;
Provided , however,
that if the broker or dealer has informed the registrant that a designated office(s) or department(s) is to receive such requests, receipt shall mean receipt by such designated office(s) or department(s); and
(ii) Transmit the data specified in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section to the registrant no later than five business days after the record date or other date specified by the registrant.

# Note 1:
Where a broker or dealer employs a designated agent to act on its behalf in performing the obligations imposed on the broker or dealer by paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the five business day time period for determining the date as of which the beneficial owner information is to be compiled is calculated from the date the designated agent receives the registrant's request. In complying with the registrant's request for beneficial owner information under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, a broker or dealer need only supply the registrant with the names, addresses, and securities positions of non-objecting beneficial owners.

# Note 2:
If a broker or dealer receives a registrant's request less than five business days before the requested compilation date, it must provide a list compiled as of a date that is no more than five business days after receipt and transmit the list within five business days after the compilation date.
(c)
Exceptions to dissemination and beneficial owner information requirements.
A broker or dealer registered under section 15 of the Act shall be subject to the following with respect to its dissemination and beneficial owner information requirements.
(1) With regard to beneficial owners of exempt employee benefit plan securities, the broker or dealer shall:
(i) Not include information in its response pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section or forward proxies (or in lieu thereof requests for voting instructions), proxy soliciting material, information statements, or annual reports to security holders pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section to such beneficial owners; and
(ii) Not include in its response, pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section, data concerning such beneficial owners.
(2) A broker or dealer need not satisfy:
(i) Its obligations under paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3) and (d) of this section if the registrant or other soliciting person, as applicable, does not provide assurance of reimbursement of the broker's or dealer's reasonable expenses, both direct and indirect, incurred in connection with performing the obligations imposed by paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3) and (d) of this section; or
(ii) Its obligation under paragraph (b)(2) of this section to forward annual reports to security holders to non-objecting beneficial owners identified by the broker or dealer, through its agent or directly, pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section if the registrant notifies the broker or dealer pursuant to § 240.14a-13(c) or § 240.14c-7(c) that the registrant will send the annual report to security holders to such non-objecting beneficial owners identified by the broker or dealer and delivered in a list to the registrant pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(3) In its response pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a broker or dealer shall not include information about annual reports to security holders, proxy statements or information statements that will not be delivered to security holders sharing an address because of the broker or dealer's reliance on the procedures referred to in the Note to paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(d) Upon receipt from the soliciting person of all of the information listed in § 240.14a-16(d), the broker or dealer shall:
(1) Prepare and send a Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials containing the information required in paragraph (e) of this section to beneficial owners no later than:
(i) With respect to a registrant, 40 calendar days prior to the security holder meeting date or, if no meeting is to be held, 40 calendar days prior to the date the votes, consents, or authorizations may be used to effect the corporate action; and
(ii) With respect to a soliciting person other than the registrant, the later of:
(A) 40 calendar days prior to the security holder meeting date or, if no meeting is to be held, 40 calendar days prior to the date the votes, consents, or authorizations may be used to effect the corporate action; or
(B) 10 calendar days after the date that the registrant first sends its proxy statement or Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials to security holders.
(2) Establish a Web site at which beneficial owners are able to access the broker or dealer's request for voting instructions and, at the broker or dealer's option, establish a Web site at which beneficial owners are able to access the proxy statement and other soliciting materials, provided that such Web sites are maintained in a manner consistent with paragraphs (b), (c), and (k) of § 240.14a-16;
(3) Upon receipt of a request from the registrant or other soliciting person, send to security holders specified by the registrant or other soliciting person a copy of the request for voting instructions accompanied by a copy of the intermediary's Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials 10 calendar days or more after the broker or dealer sends its Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials pursuant to paragraph (d)(1); and
(4) Upon receipt of a request for a copy of the materials from a beneficial owner:
(i) Request a copy of the soliciting materials from the registrant or other soliciting person, in the form requested by the beneficial owner, within three business days after receiving the beneficial owner's request;
(ii) Forward a copy of the soliciting materials to the beneficial owner, in the form requested by the beneficial owner, within three business days after receiving the materials from the registrant or other soliciting person; and
(iii) Maintain records of security holder requests to receive a paper or e-mail copy of the proxy materials in connection with future proxy solicitations and provide copies of the proxy materials to a security holder who has made such a request for all securities held in the account of that security holder until the security holder revokes such request.
(5) Notwithstanding any other provisions in this paragraph (d), if the broker or dealer receives copies of the proxy statement and annual report to security holders (if applicable) from the soliciting person with instructions to forward such materials to beneficial owners, the broker or dealer:
(i) Shall either:
(A) Prepare a Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials and forward it with the proxy statement and annual report to security holders (if applicable); or
(B) Incorporate any information required in the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials that does not appear in the proxy statement into the broker or dealer's request for voting instructions to be sent with the proxy statement and annual report (if applicable);
(ii) Need not comply with the following provisions:
(A) The timing provisions of paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section; and
(B) Paragraph (d)(4) of this section; and
(iii) Need not include in its Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials or request for voting instructions the following disclosures:
(A) Legends 1 and 3 in § 240.14a-16(d)(1); and
(B) Instructions on how to request a copy of the proxy materials.
(e)
Content of Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials.
The broker or dealer's Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials shall:
(1) Include all information, as it relates to beneficial owners, required in a
registrant's Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials under § 240.14a-16(d), provided that the broker or dealer shall provide its own, or its agent's, toll-free telephone number, an e-mail address, and an Internet Web site to service requests for copies from beneficial owners;
(2) Include a brief description, if applicable, of the rules that permit the broker or dealer to vote the securities if the beneficial owner does not return his or her voting instructions; and
(3) Otherwise be prepared and sent in a manner consistent with paragraphs (e), (f), and (g) of § 240.14a-16.
[57 FR 1099, Jan. 10, 1992, as amended at 65 FR 65751, Nov. 2, 2000; 72 FR 4170, Jan. 29, 2007; 72 FR 42238, Aug. 1, 2007; 73 FR 17814, Apr. 1, 2008]
§ 240.14b-2
Obligation of banks, associations and other entities that exercise fiduciary powers in connection with the prompt forwarding of certain communications to beneficial owners.
(a)
Definitions.
Unless the context otherwise requires, all terms used in this section shall have the same meanings as in the Act and, with respect to proxy soliciting material, as in § 240.14a-1 thereunder and, with respect to information statements, as in § 240.14c-1 thereunder. In addition, as used in this section, the following terms shall apply:
(1) The term
bank
means a bank, association, or other entity that exercises fiduciary powers.
(2) The term
beneficial owner
includes any person who has or shares, pursuant to an instrument, agreement, or otherwise, the power to vote, or to direct the voting of a security.

# Note 1:
If more than one person shares voting power, the provisions of the instrument creating that voting power shall govern with respect to whether consent to disclosure of beneficial owner information has been given.

# Note 2:
If more than one person shares voting power or if the instrument creating that voting power provides that such power shall be exercised by different persons depending on the nature of the corporate action involved, all persons entitled to exercise such power shall be deemed beneficial owners;
Provided, however,
that only one such beneficial owner need be designated among the beneficial owners to receive proxies or requests for voting instructions, other proxy soliciting material, information statements, and/or annual reports to security holders, if the person so designated assumes the obligation to disseminate, in a timely manner, such materials to the other beneficial owners.
(3) The term
registrant
means:
(i) The issuer of a class of securities registered pursuant to section 12 of the Act; or
(ii) An investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
(b)
Dissemination and beneficial owner information requirements.
A bank shall comply with the following requirements for disseminating certain communications to beneficial owners and providing beneficial owner information to registrants.
(1) The bank shall:
(i) Respond, by first class mail or other equally prompt means, directly to the registrant, no later than one business day after the date it receives an inquiry made in accordance with § 240.14a-13(a) or § 240.14c-7(a) by indicating the name and address of each of its respondent banks that holds the registrant's securities on behalf of beneficial owners, if any; and
(ii) Respond, by first class mail or other equally prompt means, directly to the registrant no later than seven business days after the date it receives an inquiry made in accordance with § 240.14a-13(a) or § 240.14c-7(a) by indicating, by means of a search card or otherwise:
(A) The approximate number of customers of the bank who are beneficial owners of the registrant's securities that are held of record by the bank or its nominee;
(B) If the registrant has indicated, pursuant to § 240.14a-13(a)(1)(ii)(A) or § 240.14c-7(a)(1)(ii)(A), that it will distribute the annual report to security holders to beneficial owners of its securities whose names, addresses, and securities positions are disclosed pursuant to paragraphs (b)(4) (ii) and (iii) of this section:
(
1
) With respect to customer accounts opened on or before December 28, 1986, the number of beneficial owners of the registrant's securities who
have affirmatively consented to disclosure of their names, addresses, and securities positions; and
(
2
) With respect to customer accounts opened after December 28, 1986, the number of beneficial owners of the registrant's securities who have not objected to disclosure of their names, addresses, and securities positions; and
(C) The identity of its designated agent, if any, acting on its behalf in fulfilling its obligations under paragraphs (b)(4) (ii) and (iii) of this section;
Provided, however,
that, if the bank or respondent bank has informed the registrant that a designated office(s) or department(s) is to receive such inquiries, receipt for purposes of paragraphs (b)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section shall mean receipt by such designated office(s) or department(s).
(2) Where proxies are solicited, the bank shall, within five business days after the record date:
(i) Execute an omnibus proxy, including a power of substitution, in favor of its respondent banks and forward such proxy to the registrant; and
(ii) Furnish a notice to each respondent bank in whose favor an omnibus proxy has been executed that it has executed such a proxy, including a power of substitution, in its favor pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.
(3) Upon receipt of the proxy, other proxy soliciting material, information statement, and/or annual report to security holders from the registrant or other soliciting person, the bank shall forward such materials to each beneficial owner on whose behalf it holds securities, no later than five business days after the date it receives such material and, where a proxy is solicited, the bank shall forward, with the other proxy soliciting material and/or the annual report to security holders, either:
(i) A properly executed proxy:
(A) Indicating the number of securities held for such beneficial owner;
(B) Bearing the beneficial owner's account number or other form of identification, together with instructions as to the procedures to vote the securities;
(C) Briefly stating which other proxies, if any, are required to permit securities to be voted under the terms of the instrument creating that voting power or applicable state law; and
(D) Being accompanied by an envelope addressed to the registrant or its agent, if not provided by the registrant; or
(ii) A request for voting instructions (for which registrant's form of proxy may be used and which shall be voted by the record holder bank or respondent bank in accordance with the instructions received), together with an envelope addressed to the record holder bank or respondent bank.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# )(3):
At the request of a registrant, or on its own initiative so long as the registrant does not object, a bank may, but is not required to, deliver one annual report to security holders, proxy statement, information statement, or Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials to more than one beneficial owner sharing an address if the requirements set forth in § 240.14a-3(e)(1) (with respect to annual reports to security holders, proxy statements, and Notices of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials) and § 240.14c-3(c) (with respect to annual reports to security holders, information statements, and Notices of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials) applicable to registrants, with the exception of § 240.14a-3(e)(1)(i)(E), are satisfied instead by the bank.
(4) The bank shall:
(i) Respond, by first class mail or other equally prompt means, directly to the registrant no later than one business day after the date it receives an inquiry made in accordance with § 240.14a-13(b)(1) or § 240.14c-7(b)(1) by indicating the name and address of each of its respondent banks that holds the registrant's securities on behalf of beneficial owners, if any;
(ii) Through its agent or directly, provide the registrant, upon the registrant's request, and within the time specified in paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section, with the names, addresses, and securities position, compiled as of a date specified in the registrant's request which is no earlier than five business days after the date the registrant's request is received, of:
(A) With respect to customer accounts opened on or before December 28, 1986, beneficial owners of the registrant's securities on whose behalf it
holds securities who have consented affirmatively to disclosure of such information, subject to paragraph (b)(5) of this section; and
(B) With respect to customer accounts opened after December 28, 1986, beneficial owners of the registrant's securities on whose behalf it holds securities who have not objected to disclosure of such information;
Provided, however,
that if the record holder bank or respondent bank has informed the registrant that a designated office(s) or department(s) is to receive such requests, receipt for purposes of paragraphs (b)(4) (i) and (ii) of this section shall mean receipt by such designated office(s) or department(s); and
(iii) Through its agent or directly, transmit the data specified in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section to the registrant no later than five business days after the date specified by the registrant.

# Note 1:
Where a record holder bank or respondent bank employs a designated agent to act on its behalf in performing the obligations imposed on it by paragraphs (b)(4) (ii) and (iii) of this section, the five business day time period for determining the date as of which the beneficial owner information is to be compiled is calculated from the date the designated agent receives the registrant's request. In complying with the registrant's request for beneficial owner information under paragraphs (b)(4) (ii) and (iii) of this section, a record holder bank or respondent bank need only supply the registrant with the names, addresses and securities positions of affirmatively consenting and non-objecting beneficial owners.

# Note 2:
If a record holder bank or respondent bank receives a registrant's request less than five business days before the requested compilation date, it must provide a list compiled as of a date that is no more than five business days after receipt and transmit the list within five business days after the compilation date.
(5) For customer accounts opened on or before December 28, 1986, unless the bank has made a good faith effort to obtain affirmative consent to disclosure of beneficial owner information pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, the bank shall provide such information as to beneficial owners who do not object to disclosure of such information. A good faith effort to obtain affirmative consent to disclosure of beneficial owner information shall include, but shall not be limited to, making an inquiry:
(i) Phrased in neutral language, explaining the purpose of the disclosure and the limitations on the registrant's use thereof;
(ii) Either in at least one mailing separate from other account mailings or in repeated mailings; and
(iii) In a mailing that includes a return card, postage paid enclosure.
(c)
Exceptions to dissemination and beneficial owner information requirements.
The bank shall be subject to the following respect to its dissemination and beneficial owner requirements.
(1) With regard to beneficial owners of exempt employee benefit plan securities, the bank shall not:
(i) Include information in its response pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section; or forward proxies (or in lieu thereof requests for voting instructions), proxy soliciting material, information statements, or annual reports to security holders pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section to such beneficial owners; or
(ii) Include in its response pursuant to paragraphs (b)(4) and (b)(5) of this section data concerning such beneficial owners.
(2) The bank need not satisfy:
(i) Its obligations under paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4) and (d) of this section if the registrant or other soliciting person, as applicable, does not provide assurance of reimbursement of its reasonable expenses, both direct and indirect, incurred in connection with performing the obligations imposed by paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4) and (d) of this section; or
(ii) Its obligation under paragraph (b)(3) of this section to forward annual reports to security holders to consenting and non-objecting beneficial owners identified pursuant to paragraphs (b)(4) (ii) and (iii) of this section if the registrant notifies the record holder bank or respondent bank, pursuant to § 240.14a-13(c) or § 240.14c-7(c), that the registrant will send the annual report to security holders to beneficial owners whose names addresses and securities positions are disclosed pursuant to paragraphs (b)(4) (ii) and (iii) of this section.
(3) For the purposes of determining the fees which may be charged to registrants pursuant to § 240.14a-13(b)(5), § 240.14c-7(a)(5), and paragraph (c)(2) of this section for performing obligations under paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), and (b)(4) of this section, an amount no greater than that permitted to be charged by brokers or dealers for reimbursement of their reasonable expenses, both direct and indirect, incurred in connection with performing the obligations imposed by paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of § 240.14b-1, shall be deemed to be reasonable.
(4) In its response pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, a bank shall not include information about annual reports to security holders, proxy statements or information statements that will not be delivered to security holders sharing an address because of the bank's reliance on the procedures referred to in the Note to paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(d) Upon receipt from the soliciting person of all of the information listed in § 240.14a-16(d), the bank shall:
(1) Prepare and send a Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials containing the information required in paragraph (e) of this section to beneficial owners no later than:
(i) With respect to a registrant, 40 calendar days prior to the security holder meeting date or, if no meeting is to be held, 40 calendar days prior to the date the votes, consents, or authorizations may be used to effect the corporate action; and
(ii) With respect to a soliciting person other than the registrant, the later of:
(A) 40 calendar days prior to the security holder meeting date or, if no meeting is to be held, 40 calendar days prior to the date the votes, consents, or authorizations may be used to effect the corporate action; or
(B) 10 calendar days after the date that the registrant first sends its proxy statement or Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials to security holders.
(2) Establish a Web site at which beneficial owners are able to access the bank's request for voting instructions and, at the bank's option, establish a Web site at which beneficial owners are able to access the proxy statement and other soliciting materials, provided that such Web sites are maintained in a manner consistent with paragraphs (b), (c), and (k) of § 240.14a-16;
(3) Upon receipt of a request from the registrant or other soliciting person, send to security holders specified by the registrant or other soliciting person a copy of the request for voting instructions accompanied by a copy of the intermediary's Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials 10 days or more after the bank sends its Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials pursuant to paragraph (d)(1); and
(4) Upon receipt of a request for a copy of the materials from a beneficial owner:
(i) Request a copy of the soliciting materials from the registrant or other soliciting person, in the form requested by the beneficial owner, within three business days after receiving the beneficial owner's request;
(ii) Forward a copy of the soliciting materials to the beneficial owner, in the form requested by the beneficial owner, within three business days after receiving the materials from the registrant or other soliciting person; and
(iii) Maintain records of security holder requests to receive a paper or e-mail copy of the proxy materials in connection with future proxy solicitations and provide copies of the proxy materials to a security holder who has made such a request for all securities held in the account of that security holder until the security holder revokes such request.
(5) Notwithstanding any other provisions in this paragraph (d), if the bank receives copies of the proxy statement and annual report to security holders (if applicable) from the soliciting person with instructions to forward such materials to beneficial owners, the bank:
(i) Shall either:
(A) Prepare a Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials and forward it with the proxy statement and annual report to security holders (if applicable); or
(B) Incorporate any information required in the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials that does not appear in the proxy statement into
the bank's request for voting instructions to be sent with the proxy statement and annual report (if applicable);
(ii) Need not comply with the following provisions:
(A) The timing provisions of paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section; and
(B) Paragraph (d)(4) of this section; and
(iii) Need not include in its Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials or request for voting instructions the following disclosures:
(A) Legends 1 and 3 in § 240.14a-16(d)(1); and
(B) Instructions on how to request a copy of the proxy materials.
(e)
Content of Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials.
The bank's Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials shall:
(1) Include all information, as it relates to beneficial owners, required in a registrant's Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials under § 240.14a-16(d), provided that the bank shall provide its own, or its agent's, toll-free telephone number, e-mail address, and Internet Web site to service requests for copies from beneficial owners; and
(2) Otherwise be prepared and sent in a manner consistent with paragraphs (e), (f), and (g) of § 240.14a-16.
[57 FR 1100, Jan. 10, 1992, as amended at 65 FR 65751, Nov. 2, 2000; 72 FR 4171, Jan. 29, 2007; 72 FR 42239, Aug. 1, 2007; 73 FR 17814, Apr. 1, 2008]

# Regulation 14C: Distribution of Information Pursuant to Section 14(
c

# )

# ATTENTION ELECTRONIC FILERS
THIS REGULATION SHOULD BE READ IN CONJUNCTION WITH REGULATION S-T (PART 232 OF THIS CHAPTER), WHICH GOVERNS THE PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION OF DOCUMENTS IN ELECTRONIC FORMAT. MANY PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION OF DOCUMENTS IN PAPER FORMAT CONTAINED IN THIS REGULATION ARE SUPERSEDED BY THE PROVISIONS OF REGULATION S-T FOR DOCUMENTS REQUIRED TO BE FILED IN ELECTRONIC FORMAT.
§ 240.14c-1
Definitions.
Unless the context otherwise requires, all terms used in this regulation have the same meanings as in the Act or elsewhere in the general rules and regulations thereunder. In addition, the following definitions apply unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)
Associate.
The term “associate,” used to indicate a relationship with any person, means:
(1) Any corporation or organization (other than the registrant or a majority owned subsidiary of the registrant) of which such person is an officer or partner or is, directly or indirectly, the beneficial owner of 10 percent or more of any class of equity securities;
(2) Any trust or other estate in which such person has a substantial beneficial interest or as to which such person serves as trustee or in a similar fidiciary capacity; and
(3) Any relative or spouse of such person, or any relative of such spouse, who has the same home as such person or who is a director or officer of the registrant or any of its parents or subsidiaries.
(b)
Employee benefit plan.
For purposes of § 240.14c-7, the term “employee benefit plan” means any purchase, savings, option, bonus, appreciation, profit sharing, thrift, incentive, pension or similar plan primarily for employees, directors, trustees or officers.
(c)
Entity that exercises fiduciary powers.
The term “entity that exercises fiduciary powers” means any entity that holds securities in nominee name or otherwise on behalf of a beneficial owner but does not include a clearing agency registered pursuant to section 17A of the Act, or a broker or a dealer.
(d)
Exempt employee benefit plan securities.
For purposes of § 240.14c-7, the term “exempt employee benefit plan securities” means:
(1) Securities of the registrant held by an employee benefit plan, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, where such plan is established by the registrant; or
(2) If notice regarding the current distribution of information statements has been given pursuant to § 240.14c-7(a)(1)(ii)(C) or if notice regarding the current request for a list of names, addresses and securities positions of beneficial owners has been given pursuant to § 240.14c-7(b)(3), securities of the registrant held by an employee benefit
plan, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, where such plan is established by an affiliate of the registrant.
(e)
Information statement.
The term “information statement” means the statement required by § 240.14c-2, whether or not contained in a single document.
(f)
Last fiscal year.
The term “last fiscal year” of the registrant means the last fiscal year of the registrant ending prior to the date of the meeting with respect to which an information statement is required to be distributed, or if the information statement involves consents or authorizations in lieu of a meeting, the earliest date on which they may be used to effect corporate action.
(g)
Proxy.
The term “proxy” includes every proxy, consent or authorization within the meaning of section 14(a) of the Act. The consent or authorization may take the form of failure to object or to dissent.
(h)
Record date.
The term “record date” means the date as of which the record holders of securities entitled to vote at a meeting or by written consent or authorization shall be determined.
(i)
Record holder.
For purposes of § 240.14c-7, the term “record holder” means any broker, dealer, voting trustee, bank, association or other entity that exercises fiduciary powers which holds securities of record in nominee name or otherwise or as a participant in a clearing agency registered pursuant to section 17A of the Act.
(j)
Registrant.
The term “registrant” means:
(1) The issuer of a class of securities registered pursuant to section 12 of the Act; or
(2) An investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 that has made a public offering of its securities.
(k)
Respondent bank.
For purposes of § 240.14c-7, the term “respondent bank” means any bank, association or other entity that exercises fiduciary powers which holds securities on behalf of beneficial owners and deposits such securities for safekeeping with another bank, association or other entity that exercises fiduciary powers.
[51 FR 44279, Dec. 9, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 23649, June 24, 1987; 53 FR 16406, May 9, 1988; 57 FR 1101, Jan. 10, 1992]
§ 240.14c-2
Distribution of information statement.
(a)(1) In connection with every annual or other meeting of the holders of the class of securities registered pursuant to section 12 of the Act or of a class of securities issued by an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 that has made a public offering of securities, including the taking of corporate action by the written authorization or consent of security holders, the registrant shall transmit to every security holder of the class that is entitled to vote or give an authorization or consent in regard to any matter to be acted upon and from whom proxy authorization or consent is not solicited on behalf of the registrant pursuant to section 14(a) of the Act:
(i) A written information statement containing the information specified in Schedule 14C (§ 240.14c-101);
(ii) A publicly-filed information statement, in the form and manner described in § 240.14c-3(d), containing the information specified in Schedule 14C (§ 240.14c-101); or
(iii) A written information statement included in a registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933 on Form S-4 or F-4 (§ 239.25 or § 239.34 of this chapter) or Form N-14 (§ 239.23 of this chapter) and containing the information specified in such Form.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1) of this section:
(i) In the case of a class of securities in unregistered or bearer form, such statements need to be transmitted only to those security holders whose names are known to the registrant; and
(ii) No such statements need to be transmitted to a security holder if a registrant would be excused from delivery of an annual report to security holders or a proxy statement under § 240.14a-3(e)(2) if such section were applicable.
(b) The information statement shall be sent or given at least 20 calendar days prior to the meeting date or, in
the case of corporate action taken pursuant to the consents or authorizations of security holders, at least 20 calendar days prior to the earliest date on which the corporate action may be taken.
(c) If a transaction is a roll-up transaction as defined in Item 901(c) of Regulation S-K (17 CFR 229.901(c)) and is registered (or authorized to be registered) on Form S-4 (17 CFR 229.25) or Form F-4 (17 CFR 229.34), the information statement must be distributed to security holders no later than the lesser of 60 calendar days prior to the date on which the meeting of security holders is held or action is taken, or the maximum number of days permitted for giving notice under applicable state law.
(d) A registrant shall transmit an information statement to security holders pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section by satisfying the requirements set forth in § 240.14a-16; provided, however, that the registrant shall revise the information required in the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, including changing the title of that notice, to reflect the fact that the registrant is not soliciting proxies for the meeting.
(e) If a transaction is a de-SPAC transaction, as defined in § 229.1601(a) of this chapter (Item 1601(a) of Regulation S-K), the information statement of the special purpose acquisition company, as defined in § 229.1601(b) (Item 1601(b) of Regulation S-K), must be distributed to security holders no later than the lesser of 20 calendar days prior to the date on which the meeting of security holders is to be held or action is to be taken in connection with the de-SPAC transaction or the maximum number of days permitted for disseminating the information statement under the applicable laws of the jurisdiction of incorporation or organization.
[51 FR 42070, Nov. 20, 1986, as amended at 56 FR 57254, Nov. 8, 1991; 57 FR 1102, Jan. 10, 1992; 57 FR 48295, Oct. 22, 1992; 72 FR 4171, Jan. 29, 2007; 72 FR 42239, Aug. 1, 2007; 89 FR 14324, Feb. 26, 2024]
§ 240.14c-3
Annual report to be furnished security holders.
(a) If the information statement relates to an annual (or special meeting in lieu of the annual) meeting, or written consent in lieu of such meeting, of security holders at which directors of the registrant, other than an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, are to be elected, it shall be accompanied or preceded by an annual report to security holders:
(1) The annual report to security holders shall contain the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(11) of § 240.14a-3.
(2) [Reserved]
(b) The report sent to security holders pursuant to this rule shall be submitted in electronic format, in accordance with the EDGAR Filer Manual, to the Commission, solely for its information, not later than the date on which such report is first sent or given to security holders or the date on which preliminary copies, or definitive copies, if preliminary filing was not required, of the information statement are filed with the Commission pursuant to § 240.14c-5, whichever date is later. The report is not deemed to be “filed” with the Commission or subject to this regulation otherwise than as provided in this rule, or to the liabilities of section 18 of the Act, except to the extent that the registrant specifically requests that it be treated as a part of the information statement or incorporates it in the information statement or other filed report by reference.
(c) A registrant will be considered to have delivered a Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, annual report to security holders or information statement to security holders of record who share an address if the requirements set forth in § 240.14a-3(e)(1) are satisfied with respect to the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, annual report to security holders or information statement, as applicable.
(d) A registrant shall furnish an annual report to security holders pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section by
satisfying the requirements set forth in § 240.14a-16.
[39 FR 40770, Nov. 20, 1974, as amended at 45 FR 63647, Sept. 25, 1980; 51 FR 42071, Nov. 20, 1986; 52 FR 48984, Dec. 29, 1987; 58 FR 26519, May 4, 1993; 59 FR 52700, Oct. 19, 1994; 59 FR 67765, Dec. 30, 1994; 64 FR 62547, Nov. 16, 1999; 65 FR 65751, Nov. 2, 2000; 72 FR 4172, Jan. 29, 2007; 72 FR 42239, Aug. 1, 2007; 73 FR 977, Jan. 4, 2008; 87 FR 35413, June 10, 2022]
§ 240.14c-4
Presentation of information in information statement.
(a) The information included in the information statement shall be clearly presented and the statements made shall be divided into groups according to subject matter and the various groups of statements shall be preceded by appropriate headings. The order of items and sub-items in the schedule need not be followed. Where practicable and appropriate, the information shall be presented in tabular form. All amounts shall be stated in figures. Information required by more than one applicable item need not be repeated. No statement need be made in response to any item or sub-item which is inapplicable.
(b) Any information required to be included in the information statement as to terms of securities or other subject matters which from a standpoint of practical necessity must be determined in the future may be stated in terms of present knowledge and intention. Subject to the foregoing, information which is not known to the registrant and which it is not reasonably within the power of the registrant to ascertain or procure may be omitted, if a brief statement of the circumstances rendering such information unavailable is made.
(c) All printed information statements shall be in roman type at least as large and as legible as 10-point modern type except that to the extent necessary for convenient presentation, financial statements and other tabular data, but not the notes thereto, may be in roman type at least as large and as legible as 8-point modern type. All such type shall be leaded at least 2 points.
(d) Where an information statement is delivered through an electronic medium, issuers may satisfy legibility requirements applicable to printed documents, such as type size and font, by presenting all required information in a format readily communicated to investors.
[31 FR 262, Jan. 8, 1966, as amended at 36 FR 8935, May 15, 1971; 51 FR 42071, Nov. 20, 1986; 61 FR 24657, May 15, 1996]
§ 240.14c-5
Filing requirements.
(a)
Preliminary information statement.
Five preliminary copies of the information statement shall be filed with the Commission at least 10 calendar days prior to the date definitive copies of such statement are first sent or given to security holders, or such shorter period prior to that date as the Commission may authorize upon a showing of good cause therefor. In computing the 10-day period, the filing date of the preliminary copies is to be counted as the first day and the 11th day is the date on which definitive copies of the information statement may be sent to security holders. A registrant, however, shall not file with the Commission a preliminary information statement if it relates to an annual (or special meeting in lieu of the annual) meeting, of security holders at which the only matters to be acted upon are:
(1) The election of directors;
(2) The election, approval or ratification of accountant(s);
(3) A security holder proposal identified in the registrant's information statement pursuant to Item 4 of Schedule 14C (§ 240.14c-101); and/or
(4) The approval or ratification of a plan as defined in paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of Item 402 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.402(a)(6)(ii) of this chapter) or amendments to such a plan.
This exclusion from filing a preliminary information statement does not apply if the registrant comments upon or refers to a solicitation in opposition in connection with the meeting in its information statement.

# Note 1:
The filing of revised material does not recommence the ten day time period unless the revised material contains material revisions or material new proposal(s) that constitute a fundamental change in the information statement.

# Note 2:
The officials responsible for the preparation of the information statement
should make every effort to verify the accuracy and completeness of the information required by the applicable rules. The preliminary statement should be filed with the Commission at the earliest practicable date.

# Note 3:
Solicitation in Opposition—For purposes of the exclusion from filing a preliminary information statement, a “solicitation in opposition” includes: (a) Any solicitation opposing a proposal supported by the registrant; and (b) any solicitation supporting a proposal that the registrant does not expressly support, other than a security holder proposal identified in the registrant's information statement pursuant to Item 4 of Schedule 14C (§ 240.14c-101 of this chapter). The identification of a security holder proposal in the registrant's information statement does not constitute a “solicitation in opposition,” even if the registrant opposes the proposal and/or includes a statement in opposition to the proposal.

# Note 4:
A registrant that is filing an information statement in preliminary form only because the registrant has commented on or referred to an opposing solicitation should indicate that fact in a transmittal letter when filing the preliminary material with the Commission.
(b)
Definitive information statement.
Eight definitive copies of the information statement, in the form in which it is furnished to security holders, must be filed with the Commission no later than the date the information statement is first sent or given to security holders. Three copies of these materials also must be filed with, or mailed for filing to, each national securities exchange on which the registrant has a class of securities listed and registered.
(c)
Release dates.
All preliminary material filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be accompanied by a statement of the date on which copies thereof filed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section are intended to be released to security holders. All definitive material filed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall be accompanied by a statement of the date on which copies of such material have been released to security holders or, if not released, the date on which copies thereof are intended to be released.
(d)(1)
Public availability of information.
All copies of material filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be clearly marked “Preliminary Copies,” and shall be deemed immediately available for public inspection unless confidential treatment is obtained pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(2)
Confidential treatment.
If action will be taken on any matter specified in Item 14 of Schedule 14A (§ 240.14a-101), all copies of the preliminary information statement filed under paragraph (a) of this section will be for the information of the Commission only and will not be deemed available for public inspection until filed with the Commission in definitive form so long as:
(i) The information statement does not relate to a matter or proposal subject to § 240.13e-3 or a roll-up transaction as defined in Item 901(c) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.901(c) of this chapter);
(ii) Neither the parties to the transaction nor any persons authorized to act on their behalf have made any public communications relating to the transaction except for statements where the content is limited to the information specified in § 230.135 of this chapter; and
(iii) The materials are filed in paper and marked “Confidential, For Use of the Commission Only”. In all cases, the materials may be disclosed to any department or agency of the United States Government and to the Congress, and the Commission may make any inquiries or investigation into the materials as may be necessary to conduct an adequate review by the Commission.

# Instruction to paragraph (
d

# )(2):
If communications are made publicly that go beyond the information specified in § 230.135, the materials must be re-filed publicly with the Commission.
(e)
Revised information statements.
Where any information statement filed pursuant to this section is amended or revised, two of the copies of such amended or revised material filed pursuant to this section shall be marked to indicate clearly and precisely the changes effected therein. If the amendment or revision alters the text of the material, the changes in such text shall be indicated by means of underscoring or in some other appropriate manner.
(f)
Merger material.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, any information statement or other material included in a registration
statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933 on Form N-14, S-4, or F-4 (§ 239.23, § 239.25 or § 239.34 of this chapter) shall be deemed filed both for the purposes of that Act and for the purposes of this section, but separate copies of such material need not be furnished pursuant to this section, nor shall any fee be required under paragraph (a) of this section. However, any additional material used after the effective date of the registration statement on Form N-14, S-4, or F-4 shall be filed in accordance with this section, unless separate copies of such material are required to be filed as an amendment of such registration statement.
(g)
Fees.
At the time of filing a preliminary information statement regarding an acquisition, merger, spinoff, consolidation or proposed sale or other disposition of substantially all the assets of the company, the registrant shall pay the Commission a fee, no part of which shall be refunded, established in accordance with § 240.0-11.
(h)
Cover page.
Each information statement filed with the Commission shall include a cover page in the form set forth in Schedule 14C (§ 240.14c-101). The cover page required by this paragraph need not be distributed to security holders.
[51 FR 42071, Nov. 20, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 48984, Dec. 29, 1987; 57 FR 48295, Oct. 22, 1992; 58 FR 14684, Mar. 18, 1993; 58 FR 69226, Dec. 30, 1993; 59 FR 67765, Dec. 30, 1994; 61 FR 49960, Sept. 24, 1996; 64 FR 61459, Nov. 10, 1999; 71 FR 53263, Sept. 8, 2006; 72 FR 4172, Jan. 29, 2007]
§ 240.14c-6
False or misleading statements.
(a) No information statement shall contain any statement which, at the time and in the light of the circumstances under which it is made, is false or misleading with respect to any material fact, or which omits to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein not false or misleading or necessary to correct any statement in any earlier communication with respect to the same meeting or subject matter which has become false or misleading.
(b) The fact that an information statement has been filed with or examined by the Commission shall not be deemed a finding by the Commission that such material is accurate or complete or not false or misleading, or that the Commission has passed upon the merits of or approved any statement contained therein or any matter to be acted upon by security holders. No representation contrary to the foregoing shall be made.
[31 FR 262, Jan. 8, 1966]
§ 240.14c-7
Providing copies of material for certain beneficial owners.
(a) If the registrant knows that securities of any class entitled to vote at a meeting, or by written authorizations or consents if no meeting is held, are held of record by a broker, dealer, voting trustee, or bank, association, or other entity that exercises fiduciary powers in nominee name or otherwise, the registrant shall:
(1) By first class mail or other equally prompt means:
(i) Inquire of each such record holder:
(A) Whether other persons are the beneficial owners of such securities and, if so, the number of copies of the information statement necessary to supply such material to such beneficial owners;
(B) In the case of an annual (or special meeting in lieu of the annual) meeting, or written consents in lieu of such meeting, at which directors are to be elected, the number of copies of the annual report to security holders, necessary to supply such report to such beneficial owners for whom proxy material has not been and is not to be made available and to whom such reports are to be distributed by such record holder or its nominee and not by the registrant;
(C) If the record holder or respondent bank has an obligation under § 240.14b-1(b)(3) or § 240.14b-2(b)(4) (ii) and (iii), whether an agent has been designated to act on its behalf in fulfilling such obligation, and, if so, the name and address of such agent; and
(D) Whether it holds the registrant's securities on behalf of any respondent bank and, if so, the name and address of each such respondent bank; and
(ii) Indicate to each such record holder:
(A) Whether the registrant pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, intends
to distribute the annual report to security holders to beneficial owners of its securities whose names, addresses and securities positions are disclosed pursuant to § 240.14b-1(b)(3) and § 240.14b-2(b)(4) (ii) and (iii);
(B) The record date; and
(C) At the option of the registrant, any employee benefit plan established by an affiliate of the registrant that holds securities of the registrant that the registrant elects to treat as exempt employee benefit plan securities;
(2) Upon receipt of a record holder's or respondent bank's response indicating, pursuant to § 240.14b-2(a)(1), the names and addresses of its respondent banks, within one business day after the date such response is received, make an inquiry of and give notification to each such respondent bank in the same manner required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section;
Provided, however,
the inquiry required by paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section shall not cover beneficial owners of exempt employee benefit plan securities;
(3) Make the inquiry required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section on the earlier of:
(i) At least 20 business days prior to the record date of the meeting of security holders or the record date of written consents in lieu of a meeting; or
(ii) At least 20 business days prior to the date the information statement is required to be sent or given pursuant to § 240.14c-2(b);
Provided, however,
That, if a record holder or respondent bank has informed the registrant that a designated office(s) or department(s) is to receive such inquiries, the inquiry shall be made to such designated office(s) or department(s);
(4) Supply, in a timely manner, each record holder and respondent bank of whom the inquiries required by paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section are made with copies of the information statement and/or the annual report to security holders, in such quantities, assembled in such form and at such place(s), as the record holder or respondent bank may reasonably request in order to send such material to each beneficial owner of securities who is to be furnished with such material by the record holder or respondent bank; and
(5) Upon the request of any record holder or respondent bank that is supplied with Notices of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, information statements and/or annual reports to security holders pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section, pay its reasonable expenses for completing the sending of such material to beneficial owners.

# Note 1:
If the registrant's list of security holders indicates that some of its securities are registered in the name of a clearing agency registered pursuant to section 17A of the Act (e.g., “Cede
Co.,” nominee for the Depository Trust Company), the registrant shall make appropriate inquiry of the clearing agency and thereafter of the participants in such clearing agency who may hold on behalf of a beneficial owner or respondent bank, and shall comply with the above paragraph with respect to any such participant (
see
§ 240.14c-1 (h)).

# Note 2:
The attention of registrants is called to the fact that each broker, dealer, bank, association, and other entity that exercises fiduciary powers has an obligation pursuant to § 240.14b-1 and § 240.14b-2 (except as provided therein with respect to exempt employee benefit plan securities held in nominee name) and, with respect to brokers and dealers, applicable self-regulatory organization requirements to obtain and forward, within the time periods prescribed therein, (a) information statements to beneficial owners on whose behalf it holds securities, and (b) annual reports to security holders to beneficial owners on whose behalf it holds securities, unless the registrant has notified the record holder or respondent bank that it has assumed responsibility to send such material to beneficial owners whose names, addresses, and securities positions are disclosed pursuant to § 240.14b-1(b)(3) and § 240.14b-2(b)(4) (ii) and (iii).

# Note 3:
The attention of registrants is called to the fact that registrants have an obligation, pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, to cause information statements and annual reports to security holders to be furnished, in accordance with § 240.14c-2, to beneficial owners of exempt employee benefit plan securities.
(b) Any registrant requesting pursuant to § 240.14b-1(b)(3) and § 240.14b-2(b)(4) (ii) and (iii) a list of names, addresses and securities positions of beneficial owners of its securities who either have consented or have not objected to disclosure of such information shall:
(1) By first class mail or other equally prompt means, inquire of each record holder and each respondent bank identified to the registrant pursuant to § 240.14b-2(e)(1) whether such record holder or respondent bank holds the registrant's securities on behalf of any respondent banks and, if so, the name and address of each such respondent bank;
(2) Request such list be compiled as of a date no earlier than five business days after the date the registant's request is received by the record holder or respondent bank;
Provided, however,
That if the record holder or respondent bank has informed the registrant that a designated office(s) or department(s) is to receive such requests, the request shall be made to such designated office(s) or department(s);
(3) Make such request to the following persons that hold the registrant's securities on behalf of beneficial owners: all brokers, dealers, banks, associations and other entities that exercise fiduciary powers;
Provided, however,
such request shall not cover beneficial owners of exempt employee benefit plan securities as defined in § 240.14a-1(d)(1); and, at the option of the registrant, such request may give notice of any employee benefit plan established by an affiliate of the registrant that holds securities of the registrant that the registrant elects to treat as exempt employee benefit plan securities;
(4) Use the information furnished in response to such request exclusively for purposes of corporate communications; and
(5) Upon the request of any record holder or respondent bank to whom such request is made, pay the reasonable expenses, both direct and indirect, of providing beneficial owner information.

# Note:
A registrant will be deemed to have satisfied its obligations under paragraph (b) of this section by requesting consenting and non-objecting beneficial owner lists from a designated agent acting on behalf of the record holder or respondent bank and paying to that designated agent the reasonable expenses of providing the beneficial owner information.
(c) A registrant, at its option, may send by mail or other equally prompt means, its annual report to security holders to the beneficial owners whose identifying information is provided by record holders and respondent banks, pursuant to § 240.14b-1(b)(3) and § 240.14b-2(b)(4) (ii) and (iii), provided that such registrant notifies the record holders and respondent banks at the time it makes the inquiry required by paragraph (a) of this section that the registrant will send the annual report to security holders to the beneficial owners so identified.
(d) If a registrant furnishes information statements to record holders and respondent banks who hold securities on behalf of beneficial owners, the registrant shall cause information statements and annual reports to security holders to be furnished, in accordance with § 240.14c-2, to beneficial owners of exempt employee benefit plan securities.
[51 FR 44280, Dec. 9, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 23649, June 24, 1987; 53 FR 16406, May 9, 1988; 57 FR 1102, Jan. 10, 1992; 61 FR 24657, May 15, 1996; 64 FR 62547, Nov. 16, 1999; 72 FR 4172, Jan. 29, 2007]
§ 240.14c-101
Schedule 14C. Information required in information statement.

# Schedule 14C Information

# Information Statement Pursuant to Section 14(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

# (Amendment No. )
Check the appropriate box:
[ ] Preliminary Information Statement
[ ] Confidential, for Use of the Commission Only (as permitted by Rule 14c-5(d)(2))
[ ] Definitive Information Statement
(Name of Registrant As Specified In Its Charter)
Payment of Filing Fee (Check all boxes that apply):
[ ] No fee required
[ ] Fee paid previously with preliminary materials
[ ] Fee computed on table in exhibit required by Item 25(b) of Schedule 14A (17 CFR 240.14a-101) per Item 1 of this Schedule and Exchange Act Rules 14c-5(g) and 0-11

# Note

# Note to Cover Page:
Where any item, other than Item 4, calls for information with respect to any matter to be acted upon at the meeting or, if no meeting is being held, by written authorization or consent, such
item need be answered only with respect to proposals to be made by the registrant. Registrants and acquirees that meet the definition of “smaller reporting company” under Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act (§ 240.12b-2) shall refer to the disclosure items in Regulation S-K (§§ 229.10 through 229.1123 of this chapter) with specific attention to the scaled disclosure requirements for smaller reporting companies, if any. A smaller reporting company may provide the information in Article 8 of Regulation S-X in lieu of any financial statements required by Item 1 of § 240.14c-101.
Item 1. Information required by Items of Schedule 14A (17 CFR 240.14a-101).
Furnish the information called for by all of the items of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A (17 CFR 240.14a-101) (other than Items 1(c), 2, 4 and 5 thereof) which would be applicable to any matter to be acted upon at the meeting if proxies were to be solicited in connection with the meeting. Notes A, C, D, and E to Schedule 14A (including the requirement in Note D.5 to provide an Interactive Data File in accordance with § 232.405 of this chapter and the EDGAR Filer Manual where applicable pursuant to § 232.405(b) of this chapter) are also applicable to Schedule 14C.
Item 2. Statement that proxies are not solicited.
The following statement shall be set forth on the first page of the information statement in bold-face type:

# We Are Not Asking You for a Proxy and You are Requested Not To Send Us a Proxy
Item 3. Interest of certain persons in or opposition to matters to be acted upon.
(a) Describe briefly any substantial interest, direct or indirect, by security holdings or otherwise, of each of the following persons in any matter to be acted upon, other than elections to office:
(1) Each person who has been a director or officer of the registrant at any time since the beginning of the last fiscal year;
(2) Each nominee for election as a director of the registrant;
(3) Each associate of any of the foregoing persons.
(b) Give the name of any director of the registrant who has informed the registrant in writing that he intends to oppose any action to be taken by the registrant at the meeting and indicate the action which he intends to oppose.
(c) Furnish the information required by Item 402(t) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.402(t) of this chapter).
Item 4. Proposals by security holders.
If any security holder entitled to vote at the meeting or by written authorization or consent has submitted to the registrant a reasonable time before the information statement is to be transmitted to security holders a proposal, other than elections to office, which is accompanied by notice of his intention to present the proposal for action at the meeting the registrant shall, if a meeting is held, make a statement to that effect, identify the proposal and indicate the disposition proposed to be made of the proposal by the registrant at the meeting.
Instructions.
1. This item need not be answered as to any proposal submitted with respect to an annual meeting if such proposal is submitted less than 60 days in advance of a day corresponding to the date of sending a proxy statement or information statement in connection with the last annual meeting of security holders.
2. If the registrant intends to rule a proposal out of order, the Commission shall be so advised 20 calendar days prior to the date the definitive copies of the information statement are filed with the Commission, together with a statement of the reasons why the proposal is not deemed to be a proper subject for action by security holders.
Item 5. Delivery of documents to security holders sharing an address.
If one annual report to security holders, information statement, or Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials is being delivered to two or more security holders who share an address, furnish the following information in accordance with § 240.14a-3(e)(1):
(a) State that only one annual report to security holders, information statement, or Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, as applicable, is being delivered to multiple security holders sharing an address unless the registrant has received contrary instructions from one or more of the security holders;
(b) Undertake to deliver promptly upon written or oral request a separate copy of the annual report to security holders, information statement, or Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, as applicable, to a security holder at a shared address to which a single copy of the documents was delivered and provide instructions as to how a security holder can notify the registrant that the security holder wishes to receive a separate copy of an annual report to security holders, information statement, or Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, as applicable;
(c) Provide the phone number and mailing address to which a security holder can direct a notification to the registrant that the security holder
wishes to receive a separate annual report to security holders, information statement, or Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, as applicable, in the future; and
(d) Provide instructions how security holders sharing an address can request delivery of a single copy of annual reports to security holders, information statements, or Notices of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials if they are receiving multiple copies of annual reports to security holders, information statements, or Notices of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials.
[51 FR 42072, Nov. 20, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 48984, Dec. 29, 1987; 57 FR 36495, Aug. 13, 1992; 58 FR 14684, Mar. 18, 1993; 59 FR 67765, Dec. 30, 1994; 61 FR 49960, Sept. 24, 1996; 65 FR 65752, Nov. 2, 2000; 72 FR 4172, Jan. 29, 2007; 73 FR 977, Jan. 4, 2008; 76 FR 6046, Feb. 2, 2011; 86 FR 70259, Dec. 9, 2021; 87 FR 55197, Sept. 8, 2022]

# Regulation 14D

# ATTENTION ELECTRONIC FILERS
THIS REGULATION SHOULD BE READ IN CONJUNCTION WITH REGULATION S-T (PART 232 OF THIS CHAPTER), WHICH GOVERNS THE PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION OF DOCUMENTS IN ELECTRONIC FORMAT. MANY PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION OF DOCUMENTS IN PAPER FORMAT CONTAINED IN THIS REGULATION ARE SUPERSEDED BY THE PROVISIONS OF REGULATION S-T FOR DOCUMENTS REQUIRED TO BE FILED IN ELECTRONIC FORMAT.
§ 240.14d-1
Scope of and definitions applicable to Regulations 14D and 14E.
(a)
Scope.
Regulation 14D (§§ 240.14d-1 through 240.14d-101) shall apply to any tender offer that is subject to section 14(d)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78n(d)(1)), including, but not limited to, any tender offer for securities of a class described in that section that is made by an affiliate of the issuer of such class. Regulation 14E (§§ 240.14e-1 through 240.14e-8) shall apply to any tender offer for securities (other than exempted securities) unless otherwise noted therein.
(b) The requirements imposed by sections 14(d)(1) through 14(d)(7) of the Act, Regulation 14D and Schedules TO and 14D-9 thereunder, and Rule 14e-1 of Regulation 14E under the Act, shall be deemed satisfied with respect to any tender offer, including any exchange offer, for the securities of an issuer incorporated or organized under the laws of Canada or any Canadian province or territory, if such issuer is a foreign private issuer and is not an investment company registered or required to be registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, if less than 40 percent of the class of securities outstanding that is the subject of the tender offer is held by U.S. holders, and the tender offer is subject to, and the bidder complies with, the laws, regulations and policies of Canada and/or any of its provinces or territories governing the conduct of the offer (unless the bidder has received an exemption(s) from, and the tender offer does not comply with, requirements that otherwise would be prescribed by Regulation 14D or 14E),
provided that:
(1) In the case of tender offers subject to section 14(d)(1) of the Act, where the consideration for a tender offer subject to this section consists solely of cash, the entire disclosure document or documents required to be furnished to holders of the class of securities to be acquired shall be filed with the Commission on Schedule 14D-1F (§ 240.14d-102) and disseminated to shareholders of the subject company residing in the United States in accordance with such Canadian laws, regulations and policies; or
(2) Where the consideration for a tender offer subject to this section includes securities of the bidder to be issued pursuant to the offer, any registration statement and/or prospectus relating thereto shall be filed with the Commission along with the Schedule 14D-1F referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and shall be disseminated, together with the home jurisdiction document(s) accompanying such Schedule, to shareholders of the subject company residing in the United States in accordance with such Canadian laws, regulations and policies.

# Notes:
1. For purposes of any tender offer, including any exchange offer, otherwise eligible to proceed in accordance with Rule 14d-1(b) under the Act, the issuer of the subject securities will be presumed to be a foreign
private issuer and U.S. holders will be presumed to hold less than 40 percent of such outstanding securities, unless (a) the aggregate trading volume of that class on national securities exchanges in the United States and on NASDAQ exceeded its aggregate trading volume on securities exchanges in Canada and on the Canadian Dealing Network, Inc. (“CDN”) over the 12 calendar month period prior to commencement of this offer, or if commenced in response to a prior offer, over the 12 calendar month period prior to the commencement of the initial offer (based on volume figures published by such exchanges and NASDAQ and CDN); (b) the most recent annual report or annual information form filed or submitted by the issuer with securities regulators of Ontario, Quebec, British Columbia or Alberta (or, if the issuer of the subject securities is not a reporting issuer in any of such provinces, with any other Canadian securities regulator) or with the Commission indicates that U.S. holders hold 40 percent or more of the outstanding subject class of securities; or (c) the offeror has actual knowledge that the level of U.S. ownership equals or exceeds 40 percent of such securities.
2. Notwithstanding the grant of an exemption from one or more of the applicable Canadian regulatory provisions imposing requirements that otherwise would be prescribed by Regulation 14D or 14E, the tender offer will be eligible to proceed in accordance with the requirements of this section if the Commission by order determines that the applicable Canadian regulatory provisions are adequate to protect the interest of investors.
(c)
Tier I.
Any tender offer for the securities of a foreign private issuer as defined in § 240.3b-4 is exempt from the requirements of sections 14(d)(1) through 14(d)(7) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78n(d)(1) through 78n(d)(7)), Regulation 14D (§§ 240.14d-1 through 240.14d-10) and Schedules TO (§ 240.14d-100) and 14D-9 (§ 240.14d-101) thereunder, and § 240.14e-1 and § 240.14e-2 of Regulation 14E under the Act if the following conditions are satisfied:
(1)
U.S. ownership limitation.
Except in the case of a tender offer that is commenced during the pendency of a tender offer made by a prior bidder in reliance on this paragraph or § 240.13e-4(h)(8), U.S. holders do not hold more than 10 percent of the class of securities sought in the offer (as determined under Instructions 2 or 3 to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section).
(2)
Equal treatment.
The bidder must permit U.S. holders to participate in the offer on terms at least as favorable as those offered any other holder of the same class of securities that is the subject of the tender offer; however:
(i)
Registered exchange offers.
If the bidder offers securities registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
), the bidder need not extend the offer to security holders in those states or jurisdictions that prohibit the offer or sale of the securities after the bidder has made a good faith effort to register or qualify the offer and sale of securities in that state or jurisdiction, except that the bidder must offer the same cash alternative to security holders in any such state or jurisdiction that it has offered to security holders in any other state or jurisdiction.
(ii)
Exempt exchange offers.
If the bidder offers securities exempt from registration under § 230.802 of this chapter, the bidder need not extend the offer to security holders in those states or jurisdictions that require registration or qualification, except that the bidder must offer the same cash alternative to security holders in any such state or jurisdiction that it has offered to security holders in any other state or jurisdiction.
(iii)
Cash only consideration.
The bidder may offer U.S. holders only a cash consideration for the tender of the subject securities, notwithstanding the fact that the bidder is offering security holders outside the United States a consideration that consists in whole or in part of securities of the bidder, so long as the bidder has a reasonable basis for believing that the amount of cash is substantially equivalent to the value of the consideration offered to non-U.S. holders, and either of the following conditions are satisfied:
(A) The offered security is a “margin security” within the meaning of Regulation T (12 CFR 220.2) and the issuer undertakes to provide, upon the request of any U.S. holder or the Commission staff, the closing price and daily trading volume of the security on the principal trading market for the security as of the last trading day of each of the six months preceding the announcement of the offer and each of the trading days thereafter; or
(B) If the offered security is not a “margin security” within the meaning
of Regulation T (12 CFR 220.2) the issuer undertakes to provide, upon the request of any U.S. holder or the Commission staff, an opinion of an independent expert stating that the cash consideration offered to U.S. holders is substantially equivalent to the value of the consideration offered security holders outside the United States.
(iv)
Disparate tax treatment.
If the bidder offers loan notes solely to offer sellers tax advantages not available in the United States and these notes are neither listed on any organized securities market nor registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
), the loan notes need not be offered to U.S. holders.
(3)
Informational documents.
(i) The bidder must disseminate any informational document to U.S. holders, including any amendments thereto, in English, on a comparable basis to that provided to security holders in the home jurisdiction.
(ii) If the bidder disseminates by publication in its home jurisdiction, the bidder must publish the information in the United States in a manner reasonably calculated to inform U.S. holders of the offer.
(iii) In the case of tender offers for securities described in section 14(d)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78n(d)(1)), if the bidder publishes or otherwise disseminates an informational document to the holders of the securities in connection with the tender offer, the bidder must furnish that informational document, including any amendments thereto, in English, to the Commission on Form CB (§ 249.480 of this chapter) by the first business day after publication or dissemination. If the bidder is a foreign company, it must also file a Form F-X (§ 239.42 of this chapter) with the Commission at the same time as the submission of Form CB to appoint an agent for service in the United States.
(4)
Investment companies.
The issuer of the securities that are the subject of the tender offer is not an investment company registered or required to be registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
), other than a registered closed-end investment company.
(d)
Tier II.
A person conducting a tender offer (including any exchange offer) that meets the conditions in paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall be entitled to the exemptive relief specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, provided that such tender offer complies with all the requirements of this section other than those for which an exemption has been specifically provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. In addition, a person conducting a tender offer subject only to the requirements of section 14(e) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78n(e)) and Regulation 14E thereunder (§§ 240.14e-1 through 240.14e-8) that meets the conditions in paragraph (d)(1) of the section also shall be entitled to the exemptive relief specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, to the extent needed under the requirements of Regulation 14E, so long as the tender offer complies with all requirements of Regulation 14E other than those for which an exemption has been specifically provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section:
(1)
Conditions.
(i) The subject company is a foreign private issuer as defined in § 240.3b-4 and is not an investment company registered or required to be registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
), other than a registered closed-end investment company;
(ii) Except in the case of a tender offer that is commenced during the pendency of a tender offer made by a prior bidder in reliance on this paragraph or § 240.13e-4(i), U.S. holders do not hold more than 40 percent of the class of securities sought in the offer (as determined under Instructions 2 or 3 to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section); and
(iii) The bidder complies with all applicable U.S. tender offer laws and regulations, other than those for which an exemption has been provided for in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(2)
Exemptions
—(i)
Equal treatment—loan notes.
If the bidder offers loan notes solely to offer sellers tax advantages not available in the United States and these notes are neither listed on any organized securities market nor registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
), the loan
notes need not be offered to U.S. holders, notwithstanding § 240.14d-10.
(ii)
Equal treatment—separate U.S. and foreign offers.
Notwithstanding the provisions of § 240.14d-10, a bidder conducting a tender offer meeting the conditions of paragraph (d)(1) of this section may separate the offer into multiple offers: One offer made to U.S. holders, which also may include all holders of American Depositary Shares representing interests in the subject securities, and one or more offers made to non-U.S. holders. The U.S. offer must be made on terms at least as favorable as those offered any other holder of the same class of securities that is the subject of the tender offers. U.S. holders may be included in the foreign offer(s) only where the laws of the jurisdiction governing such foreign offer(s) expressly preclude the exclusion of U.S. holders from the foreign offer(s) and where the offer materials distributed to U.S. holders fully and adequately disclose the risks of participating in the foreign offer(s).
(iii)
Notice of extensions.
Notice of extensions made in accordance with the requirements of the home jurisdiction law or practice will satisfy the requirements of § 240.14e-1(d).
(iv)
Prompt payment.
Payment made in accordance with the requirements of the home jurisdiction law or practice will satisfy the requirements of § 240.14e-1(c). Where payment may not be made on a more expedited basis under home jurisdiction law or practice, payment for securities tendered during any subsequent offering period within 20 business days of the date of tender will satisfy the prompt payment requirements of § 240.14d-11(e). For purposes of this paragraph (d), a business day is determined with reference to the target's home jurisdiction.
(v)
Subsequent offering period/Withdrawal rights.
A bidder will satisfy the announcement and prompt payment requirements of § 240.14d-11(d), if the bidder announces the results of the tender offer, including the approximate number of securities deposited to date, and pays for tendered securities in accordance with the requirements of the home jurisdiction law or practice and the subsequent offering period commences immediately following such announcement. Notwithstanding section 14(d)(5) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78n(d)(5)), the bidder need not extend withdrawal rights following the close of the offer and prior to the commencement of the subsequent offering period.
(vi)
Payment of interest on securities tendered during subsequent offering period.
Notwithstanding the requirements of § 240.14d-11(f), the bidder may pay interest on securities tendered during a subsequent offering period, if required under applicable foreign law. Paying interest on securities tendered during a subsequent offering period in accordance with this section will not be deemed to violate § 240.14d-10(a)(2).
(vii)
Suspension of withdrawal rights during counting of tendered securities.
The bidder may suspend withdrawal rights required under section 14(d)(5) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78n(d)(5)) at the end of the offer and during the period that securities tendered into the offer are being counted, provided that:
(A) The bidder has provided an offer period including withdrawal rights for a period of at least 20 U.S. business days;
(B) At the time withdrawal rights are suspended, all offer conditions have been satisfied or waived, except to the extent that the bidder is in the process of determining whether a minimum acceptance condition included in the terms of the offer has been satisfied by counting tendered securities; and
(C) Withdrawal rights are suspended only during the counting process and are reinstated immediately thereafter, except to the extent that they are terminated through the acceptance of tendered securities.
(viii)
Mix and match elections and the subsequent offering period.
Notwithstanding the requirements of § 240.14d-11(b), where the bidder offers target security holders a choice between different forms of consideration, it may establish a ceiling on one or more forms of consideration offered. Notwithstanding the requirements of § 240.14d-11(f), a bidder that establishes a ceiling on one or more forms of consideration offered pursuant to this subsection may offset elections of tendering security holders against one another, subject to proration, so that elections are satisfied to the greatest
extent possible and prorated to the extent that they cannot be satisfied in full. Such a bidder also may separately offset and prorate securities tendered during the initial offering period and those tendered during any subsequent offering period, notwithstanding the requirements of § 240.14d-10(c).
(ix)
Early termination of an initial offering period.
A bidder may terminate an initial offering period, including a voluntary extension of that period, if at the time the initial offering period and withdrawal rights terminate, the following conditions are met:
(A) The initial offering period has been open for at least 20 U.S. business days;
(B) The bidder has adequately discussed the possibility of and the impact of the early termination in the original offer materials;
(C) The bidder provides a subsequent offering period after the termination of the initial offering period;
(D) All offer conditions are satisfied as of the time when the initial offering period ends; and
(E) The bidder does not terminate the initial offering period or any extension of that period during any mandatory extension required under U.S. tender offer rules.

# Instructions to paragraphs (
c

# ) and (
d

# ):
1.
Home jurisdiction
means both the jurisdiction of the subject company's incorporation, organization or chartering and the principal foreign market where the subject company's securities are listed or quoted.
2.
U.S. holder
means any security holder resident in the United States. Except as otherwise provided in Instruction 3 below, to determine the percentage of outstanding securities held by U.S. holders:
i. Calculate the U.S. ownership as of a date no more than 60 before and no more than 30 days after public announcement of the tender offer. If you are unable to calculate as of a date within these time frames, the calculation may be made as of the most recent practicable date before public announcement, but in no event earlier than 120 days before announcement;
ii. Include securities underlying American Depositary Shares convertible or exchangeable into the securities that are the subject of the tender offer when calculating the number of subject securities outstanding, as well as the number held by U.S. holders. Exclude from the calculations other types of securities that are convertible or exchangeable into the securities that are the subject of the tender offer, such as warrants, options and convertible securities. Exclude from those calculations securities held by the bidder;
iii. Use the method of calculating record ownership in Rule 12g3-2(a) under the Act (§ 240.12g3-2(a) of this chapter), except that your inquiry as to the amount of securities represented by accounts of customers resident in the United States may be limited to brokers, dealers, banks and other nominees located in the United States, the subject company's jurisdiction of incorporation or that of each participant in a business combination, and the jurisdiction that is the primary trading market for the subject securities, if different than the subject company's jurisdiction of incorporation;
iv. If, after reasonable inquiry, you are unable to obtain information about the amount of securities represented by accounts of customers resident in the United States, you may assume, for purposes of this definition, that the customers are residents of the jurisdiction in which the nominee has its principal place of business; and
v. Count securities as beneficially owned by residents of the United States as reported on reports of beneficial ownership that are provided to you or publicly filed and based on information otherwise provided to you.
3. In a tender offer by a bidder other than an affiliate of the issuer of the subject securities that is not made pursuant to an agreement with the issuer of the subject securities, the issuer of the subject securities will be presumed to be a foreign private issuer and U.S. holders will be presumed to hold less than 10 percent (40 percent in the case of paragraph (d) of this section) of such outstanding securities, unless paragraphs 3.i., ii., or iii. of the instructions to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section indicate otherwise. In addition, where the bidder is unable to conduct the analysis of U.S. ownership set forth in Instruction 2 to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the bidder may presume that the percentage of securities held by U.S. holders is less than 10 percent (40 percent in the case of paragraph (d) of this section) of the outstanding securities so long as there is a primary trading market for the subject securities outside the U.S., as defined in § 240.12h-6(f)(5) of this chapter, unless:
i. Average daily trading volume of the subject securities in the United States for a recent twelve-month period ending on a date no more than 60 days before the public announcement of the offer exceeds 10 percent (40 percent in the case of paragraph (d) of this section) of the average daily trading volume of that class of securities on a worldwide basis for the same period; or
ii. The most recent annual report or annual information filed or submitted by the issuer with securities regulators of the home jurisdiction or with the Commission or any
jurisdiction in which the subject securities trade before the public announcement of the offer indicates that U.S. holders hold more than 10 percent (40 percent in the case of paragraph (d) of this section) of the outstanding subject class of securities; or
iii. The bidder knows or has reason to know, before the public announcement of the offer, that the level of U.S. ownership exceeds 10 percent (40 percent in the case of paragraph (d) of this section) of such securities. As an example, a bidder is deemed to know information about U.S. ownership of the subject class of securities that is publicly available and that appears in any filing with the Commission or any regulatory body in the issuer's jurisdiction of incorporation or (if different) the non-U.S. jurisdiction in which the primary trading market for the subject securities is located. The bidder is deemed to know information about U.S. ownership available from the issuer or obtained or readily available from any other source that is reasonably reliable, including from persons it has retained to advise it about the transaction, as well as from third-party information providers. These examples are not intended to be exclusive.
iv. The bidder knows or has reason to know that the level of U.S. ownership exceeds 10 percent (40 percent in the case of 14d-1(d)) of such securities.
4.
United States
means the United States of America, its territories and possessions, any State of the United States, and the District of Columbia.
5. The exemptions provided by paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section are not available for any securities transaction or series of transactions that technically complies with paragraph (c) or (d) of this section but are part of a plan or scheme to evade the provisions of Regulations 14D or 14E.
(e) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the requirements imposed by sections 14(d)(1) through 14(d)(7) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 78n(d)(1) through 78n(d)(7)], Regulation 14D promulgated thereunder (§§ 240.14d-1 through 240.14d-10), and §§ 240.14e-1 and 240.14e-2 shall not apply by virtue of the fact that a bidder for the securities of a foreign private issuer, as defined in § 240.3b-4, the subject company of such a tender offer, their representatives, or any other person specified in § 240.14d-9(d), provides any journalist with access to its press conferences held outside of the United States, to meetings with its representatives conducted outside of the United States, or to written press-related materials released outside the United States, at or in which a present or proposed tender offer is discussed, if:
(1) Access is provided to both U.S. and foreign journalists; and
(2) With respect to any written press-related materials released by the bidder or its representatives that discuss a present or proposed tender offer for equity securities registered under Section 12 of the Act [15 U.S.C. 78
l
], the written press-related materials must state that these written press-related materials are not an extension of a tender offer in the United States for a class of equity securities of the subject company. If the bidder intends to extend the tender offer in the United States at some future time, a statement regarding this intention, and that the procedural and filing requirements of the Williams Act will be satisfied at that time, also must be included in these written press-related materials. No means to tender securities, or coupons that could be returned to indicate interest in the tender offer, may be provided as part of, or attached to, these written press-related materials.
(f) For the purpose of § 240.14d-1(e), a bidder may presume that a target company qualifies as a foreign private issuer if the target company is a foreign issuer and files registration statements or reports on the disclosure forms specifically designated for foreign private issuers, claims the exemption from registration under the Act pursuant to § 240.12g3-2(b), or is not reporting in the United States.
(g)
Definitions.
Unless the context otherwise requires, all terms used in Regulation 14D and Regulation 14E have the same meaning as in the Act and in Rule 12b-2 (§ 240.12b-2) promulgated thereunder. In addition, for purposes of sections 14(d) and 14(e) of the Act and Regulations 14D and 14E, the following definitions apply:
(1) The term
beneficial owner
shall have the same meaning as that set forth in Rule 13d-3:
Provided, however,
That, except with respect to Rule 14d-3, Rule 14d-9(d), the term shall not include a person who does not have or share investment power or who is deemed to be a beneficial owner by virtue of Rule 13d-3(d)(1) (§ 240.13d-3(d)(1));
(2) The term
bidder
means any person who makes a tender offer or on whose behalf a tender offer is made:
Provided,
however,
That the term does not include an issuer which makes a tender offer for securities of any class of which it is the issuer;
(3) The term
business day
means any day, other than Saturday, Sunday or a federal holiday, and shall consist of the time period from 12:01 a.m. through 12:00 midnight Eastern time. In computing any time period under section 14(d)(5) or section 14(d)(6) of the Act or under Regulation 14D or Regulation 14E, the date of the event which begins the running of such time period shall be included
except that
if such event occurs on other than a business day such period shall begin to run on and shall include the first business day thereafter; and
(4) The term
initial offering period
means the period from the time the offer commences until all minimum time periods, including extensions, required by Regulations 14D (§§ 240.14d-1 through 240.14d-103) and 14E (§§ 240.14e-1 through 240.14e-8) have been satisfied and all conditions to the offer have been satisfied or waived within these time periods.
(5) The term
security holders
means holders of record and beneficial owners of securities which are the subject of a tender offer;
(6) The term
security position listing
means, with respect to securities of any issuer held by a registered clearing agency in the name of the clearing agency or its nominee, a list of those participants in the clearing agency on whose behalf the clearing agency holds the issuer's securities and of the participants' respective positions in such securities as of a specified date.
(7) The term
subject company
means any issuer of securities which are sought by a bidder pursuant to a tender offer;
(8) The term
subsequent offering period
means the period immediately following the initial offering period meeting the conditions specified in § 240.14d-11.
(9) The term
tender offer material
means:
(i) The bidder's formal offer, including all the material terms and conditions of the tender offer and all amendments thereto;
(ii) The related transmittal letter (whereby securities of the subject company which are sought in the tender offer may be transmitted to the bidder or its depositary) and all amendments thereto; and
(iii) Press releases, advertisements, letters and other documents published by the bidder or sent or given by the bidder to security holders which, directly or indirectly, solicit, invite or request tenders of the securities being sought in the tender offer;
(h)
Signatures.
Where the Act or the rules, forms, reports or schedules thereunder require a document filed with or furnished to the Commission to be signed, such document shall be manually signed, or signed using either typed signatures or duplicated or facsimile versions of manual signatures. Where typed, duplicated, or facsimile signatures are used, each signatory to the filing shall manually or electronically sign a signature page or other document authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting his or her signature that appears in the filing (“authentication document”). Such authentication document shall be executed before or at the time the filing is made and shall be retained by the filer for a period of five years. The requirements set forth in § 232.302(b) must be met with regards to the use of an electronically signed authentication document pursuant to this paragraph (h). Upon request, the filer shall furnish to the Commission or its staff a copy of any or all documents retained pursuant to this section.
(h)
Signatures.
Where the Act or the rules, forms, reports or schedules thereunder require a document filed with or furnished to the Commission to be signed, such document shall be manually signed, or signed using either typed signatures or duplicated or facsimile versions of manual signatures. Where typed, duplicated, or facsimile signatures are used, each signatory to the filing shall manually or electronically sign a signature page or other document authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting his or her signature that appears in the filing (“authentication document”). Such authentication document shall be executed before or at the time the filing is
made and shall be retained by the filer for a period of five years. The requirements set forth in § 232.302(b) must be met with regards to the use of an electronically signed authentication document pursuant to this paragraph (h). Upon request, the filer shall furnish to the Commission or its staff a copy of any or all documents retained pursuant to this section.
[44 FR 70340, Dec. 6, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 11470, Mar. 16, 1982; 56 FR 30071, July 1, 1991; 60 FR 26622, May 17, 1995; 61 FR 30403, June 14, 1996; 62 FR 53955, Oct. 17, 1997; 64 FR 61404, 61459, Nov. 10, 1999; 73 FR 17814, Apr. 1, 2008; 73 FR 60091, Oct. 9, 2008; 85 FR 78229, Dec. 4, 2020]
§ 240.14d-2
Commencement of a tender offer.
(a)
Date of commencement.
A bidder will have commenced its tender offer for purposes of section 14(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78n) and the rules under that section at 12:01 a.m. on the date when the bidder has first published, sent or given the means to tender to security holders. For purposes of this section, the means to tender includes the transmittal form or a statement regarding how the transmittal form may be obtained.
(b)
Pre-commencement communications.
A communication by the bidder will not be deemed to constitute commencement of a tender offer if:
(1) It does not include the means for security holders to tender their shares into the offer; and
(2) All written communications relating to the tender offer, from and including the first public announcement, are filed under cover of Schedule TO (§ 240.14d-100) with the Commission no later than the date of the communication. The bidder also must deliver to the subject company and any other bidder for the same class of securities the first communication relating to the transaction that is filed, or required to be filed, with the Commission.

# Instructions to paragraph (
b

# )(2):
1. The box on the front of Schedule TO indicating that the filing contains pre-commencement communications must be checked.
2. Any communications made in connection with an exchange offer registered under the Securities Act of 1933 need only be filed under § 230.425 of this chapter and will be deemed filed under this section.
3. Each pre-commencement written communication must include a prominent legend in clear, plain language advising security holders to read the tender offer statement when it is available because it contains important information. The legend also must advise investors that they can get the tender offer statement and other filed documents for free at the Commission's web site and explain which documents are free from the offeror.
4. See §§ 230.135, 230.165 and 230.166 of this chapter for pre-commencement communications made in connection with registered exchange offers.
5. “Public announcement” is any oral or written communication by the bidder, or any person authorized to act on the bidder's behalf, that is reasonably designed to, or has the effect of, informing the public or security holders in general about the tender offer.
(c)
Filing and other obligations triggered by commencement.
As soon as practicable on the date of commencement, a bidder must comply with the filing requirements of § 240.14d-3(a), the dissemination requirements of § 240.14d-4(a) or (b), and the disclosure requirements of § 240.14d-6(a).
[64 FR 61459, Nov. 10, 1999]
§ 240.14d-3
Filing and transmission of tender offer statement.
(a)
Filing and transmittal.
No bidder shall make a tender offer if, after consummation thereof, such bidder would be the beneficial owner of more than 5 percent of the class of the subject company's securities for which the tender offer is made, unless as soon as practicable on the date of the commencement of the tender offer such bidder:
(1) Files with the Commission a Tender Offer Statement on Schedule TO (§ 240.14d-100), including all exhibits thereto;
(2) Delivers a copy of such Schedule TO, including all exhibits thereto:
(i) To the subject company at its principal executive office; and
(ii) To any other bidder, which has filed a Schedule TO with the Commission relating to a tender offer which has not yet terminated for the same class of securities of the subject company, at such bidder's principal executive office or at the address of the person authorized to receive notices and communications (which is disclosed on
the cover sheet of such other bidder's Schedule TO);
(3) Gives telephonic notice of the information required by Rule 14d-6(d)(2)(i) and (ii) (§ 240.14d-6(d)(2)(i) and (ii)) and mails by means of first class mail a copy of such Schedule TO, including all exhibits thereto:
(i) To each national securities exchange where such class of the subject company's securities is registered and listed for trading (which may be based upon information contained in the subject company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K (§ 249.310 of this chapter) filed with the Commission unless the bidder has reason to believe that such information is not current), which telephonic notice shall be made when practicable before the opening of each such exchange; and
(ii) To the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (“NASD”) if such class of the subject company's securities is authorized for quotation in the NASDAQ interdealer quotation system.
(b)
Post-commencement amendments and additional materials.
The bidder making the tender offer must file with the Commission:
(1) An amendment to Schedule TO (§ 240.14d-100) reporting promptly any material changes in the information set forth in the schedule previously filed and including copies of any additional tender offer materials as exhibits; and
(2) A final amendment to Schedule TO (§ 240.14d-100) reporting promptly the results of the tender offer.

# Instruction to paragraph (
b

# ):
A copy of any additional tender offer materials or amendment filed under this section must be sent promptly to the subject company and to any exchange and/or NASD, as required by paragraph (a) of this section, but in no event later than the date the materials are first published, sent or given to security holders.
(c)
Certain announcements.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, if the additional tender offer material or an amendment to Schedule TO discloses only the number of shares deposited to date, and/or announces an extension of the time during which shares may be tendered, then the bidder may file such tender offer material or amendment and send a copy of such tender offer material or amendment to the subject company, any exchange and/or the NASD, as required by paragraph (a) of this section, promptly after the date such tender offer material is first published or sent or given to security holders.
[44 FR 70341, Dec. 6, 1979; 64 FR 61460, Nov. 10, 1999, as amended at 73 FR 977, Jan. 4, 2008; 73 FR 17814, Apr. 1, 2008]
§ 240.14d-4
Dissemination of tender offers to security holders.
As soon as practicable on the date of commencement of a tender offer, the bidder must publish, send or give the disclosure required by § 240.14d-6 to security holders of the class of securities that is the subject of the offer, by complying with all of the requirements of any of the following:
(a)
Cash tender offers and exempt securities offers.
For tender offers in which the consideration consists solely of cash and/or securities exempt from registration under section 3 of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77c):
(1)
Long-form publication.
The bidder makes adequate publication in a newspaper or newspapers of long-form publication of the tender offer.
(2)
Summary publication.
(i) If the tender offer is not subject to Rule 13e-3 (§ 240.13e-3), the bidder makes adequate publication in a newspaper or newspapers of a summary advertisement of the tender offer; and
(ii) Mails by first class mail or otherwise furnishes with reasonable promptness the bidder's tender offer materials to any security holder who requests such tender offer materials pursuant to the summary advertisement or otherwise.
(3)
Use of stockholder lists and security position listings.
Any bidder using stockholder lists and security position listings under § 240.14d-5 must comply with paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section on or before the date of the bidder's request under § 240.14d-5(a).

# Instruction to paragraph (
a

# ):
Tender offers may be published or sent or given to security holders by other methods, but with respect to summary publication and the use of stockholder lists and security position listings under § 240.14d-5, paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section are exclusive.
(b)
Registered securities offers.
For tender offers in which the consideration consists solely or partially of securities registered under the Securities Act of 1933, a registration statement containing all of the required information, including pricing information, has been filed and a preliminary prospectus or a prospectus that meets the requirements of section 10(a) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77j(a)), including a letter of transmittal, is delivered to security holders. However, for going-private transactions (as defined by § 240.13e-3) and roll-up transactions (as described by Item 901 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.901 of this chapter)), a registration statement registering the securities to be offered must have become effective and only a prospectus that meets the requirements of section 10(a) of the Securities Act may be delivered to security holders on the date of commencement.

# Instructions to paragraph (
b

# ):
1. If the prospectus is being delivered by mail, mailing on the date of commencement is sufficient.
2. A preliminary prospectus used under this section may not omit information under §§ 230.430 or 230.430A of this chapter.
3. If a preliminary prospectus is used under this section and the bidder must disseminate material changes, the tender offer must remain open for the period specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
4. If a preliminary prospectus is used under this section, tenders may be requested in accordance with § 230.162(a) of this chapter.
(c)
Adequate publication.
Depending on the facts and circumstances involved, adequate publication of a tender offer pursuant to this section may require publication in a newspaper with a national circulation or may only require publication in a newspaper with metropolitan or regional circulation or may require publication in a combination thereof:
Provided, however,
That publication in all editions of a daily newspaper with a national circulation shall be deemed to constitute adequate publication.
(d)
Publication of changes and extension of the offer.
(1) If a tender offer has been published or sent or given to security holders by one or more of the methods enumerated in this section, a material change in the information published or sent or given to security holders shall be promptly disseminated to security holders in a manner reasonably designed to inform security holders of such change;
Provided, however,
That if the bidder has elected pursuant to rule 14d-5 (f)(1) of this section to require the subject company to disseminate amendments disclosing material changes to the tender offer materials pursuant to Rule 14d-5, the bidder shall disseminate material changes in the information published or sent or given to security holders at least pursuant to Rule 14d-5.
(2) In a registered securities offer where the bidder disseminates the preliminary prospectus as permitted by paragraph (b) of this section, the offer must remain open from the date that material changes to the tender offer materials are disseminated to security holders, as follows:
(i) Five business days for a prospectus supplement containing a material change other than price or share levels;
(ii) Ten business days for a prospectus supplement containing a change in price, the amount of securities sought, the dealer's soliciting fee, or other similarly significant change;
(iii) Ten business days for a prospectus supplement included as part of a post-effective amendment; and
(iv) Twenty business days for a revised prospectus when the initial prospectus was materially deficient.
[44 FR 70341, Dec. 6, 1979, as amended at 64 FR 61460, Nov. 10, 1999; 76 FR 71876, Nov. 21, 2011]
§ 240.14d-5
Dissemination of certain tender offers by the use of stockholder lists and security position listings.
(a)
Obligations of the subject company.
Upon receipt by a subject company at its principal executive offices of a bidder's written request, meeting the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section, the subject company shall comply with the following sub-paragraphs.
(1) The subject company shall notify promptly transfer agents and any other person who will assist the subject company in complying with the requirements of this section of the receipt by the subject company of a request by a bidder pursuant to this section.
(2) The subject company shall promptly ascertain whether the most recently prepared stockholder list, written or otherwise, within the access of the subject company was prepared as of a date earlier than ten business days before the date of the bidder's request and, if so, the subject company shall promptly prepare or cause to be prepared a stockholder list as of the most recent practicable date which shall not be more than ten business days before the date of the bidder's request.
(3) The subject company shall make an election to comply and shall comply with all of the provisions of either paragraph (b) or paragraph (c) of this section. The subject company's election once made shall not be modified or revoked during the bidder's tender offer and extensions thereof.
(4) No later than the second business day after the date of the bidder's request, the subject company shall orally notify the bidder, which notification shall be confirmed in writing, of the subject company's election made pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section. Such notification shall indicate (i) the approximate number of security holders of the class of securities being sought by the bidder and, (ii) if the subject company elects to comply with paragraph (b) of this section, appropriate information concerning the location for delivery of the bidder's tender offer materials and the approximate direct costs incidental to the mailing to security holders of the bidder's tender offer materials computed in accordance with paragraph (g)(2) of this section.
(b)
Mailing of tender offer materials by the subject company.
A subject company which elects pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section to comply with the provisions of this paragraph shall perform the acts prescribed by the following paragraphs.
(1) The subject company shall promptly contact each participant named on the most recent security position listing of any clearing agency within the access of the subject company and make inquiry of each such participant as to the approximate number of beneficial owners of the subject company securities being sought in the tender offer held by each such participant.
(2) No later than the third business day after delivery of the bidder's tender offer materials pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the subject company shall begin to mail or cause to be mailed by means of first class mail a copy of the bidder's tender offer materials to each person whose name appears as a record holder of the class of securities for which the offer is made on the most recent stockholder list referred to in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The subject company shall use its best efforts to complete the mailing in a timely manner but in no event shall such mailing be completed in a substantially greater period of time than the subject company would complete a mailing to security holders of its own materials relating to the tender offer.
(3) No later than the third business day after the delivery of the bidder's tender offer materials pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the subject company shall begin to transmit or cause to be transmitted a sufficient number of sets of the bidder's tender offer materials to the participants named on the security position listings described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The subject company shall use its best efforts to complete the transmittal in a timely manner but in no event shall such transmittal be completed in a substantially greater period of time than the subject company would complete a transmittal to such participants pursuant to security position listings of clearing agencies of its own material relating to the tender offer.
(4) The subject company shall promptly give oral notification to the bidder, which notification shall be confirmed in writing, of the commencement of the mailing pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section and of the transmittal pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(5) During the tender offer and any extension thereof the subject company shall use reasonable efforts to update the stockholder list and shall mail or cause to be mailed promptly following each update a copy of the bidder's tender offer materials (to the extent sufficient sets of such materials have been
furnished by the bidder) to each person who has become a record holder since the later of (i) the date of preparation of the most recent stockholder list referred to in paragraph (a)(2) of this section or (ii) the last preceding update.
(6) If the bidder has elected pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section to require the subject company to disseminate amendments disclosing material changes to the tender offer materials pursuant to this section, the subject company, promptly following delivery of each such amendment, shall mail or cause to be mailed a copy of each such amendment to each record holder whose name appears on the shareholder list described in paragraphs (a)(2) and (b)(5) of this section and shall transmit or cause to be transmitted sufficient copies of such amendment to each participant named on security position listings who received sets of the bidder's tender offer materials pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(7) The subject company shall not include any communication other than the bidder's tender offer materials or amendments thereto in the envelopes or other containers furnished by the bidder.
(8) Promptly following the termination of the tender offer, the subject company shall reimburse the bidder the excess, if any, of the amounts advanced pursuant to paragraph (f)(3)(iii) over the direct costs incidental to compliance by the subject company and its agents in performing the acts required by this section computed in accordance with paragraph (g)(2) of this section.
(c)
Delivery of stockholder lists and security position listings.
A subject company which elects pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section to comply with the provisions of this paragraph shall perform the acts prescribed by the following paragraphs.
(1) No later than the third business day after the date of the bidder's request, the subject company must furnish to the bidder at the subject company's principal executive office a copy of the names and addresses of the record holders on the most recent stockholder list referred to in paragraph (a)(2) of this section; the names and addresses of participants identified on the most recent security position listing of any clearing agency that is within the access of the subject company; and the most recent list of names, addresses and security positions of beneficial owners as specified in § 240.14a-13(b), in the possession of the subject company, or that subsequently comes into its possession. All security holder list information must be in the format requested by the bidder to the extent the format is available to the subject company without undue burden or expense.
(2) If the bidder has elected pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section to require the subject company to disseminate amendments disclosing material changes to the tender offer materials, the subject company shall update the stockholder list by furnishing the bidder with the name and address of each record holder named on the stockholder list, and not previously furnished to the bidder, promptly after such information becomes available to the subject company during the tender offer and any extensions thereof.
(d)
Liability of subject company and others.
Neither the subject company nor any affiliate or agent of the subject company nor any clearing agency shall be:
(1) Deemed to have made a solicitation or recommendation respecting the tender offer within the meaning of section 14(d)(4) based solely upon the compliance or noncompliance by the subject company or any affiliate or agent of the subject company with one or more requirements of this section;
(2) Liable under any provision of the Federal securities laws to the bidder or to any security holder based solely upon the inaccuracy of the current names or addresses on the stockholder list or security position listing, unless such inaccuracy results from a lack of reasonable care on the part of the subject company or any affiliate or agent of the subject company;
(3) Deemed to be an “underwriter” within the meaning of section (2)(11) of the Securities Act of 1933 for any purpose of that Act or any rule or regulation promulgated thereunder based solely upon the compliance or noncompliance by the subject company or any affiliate or agent of the subject
company with one or more of the requirements of this section;
(4) Liable under any provision of the Federal securities laws for the disclosure in the bidder's tender offer materials, including any amendment thereto, based solely upon the compliance or noncompliance by the subject company or any affiliate or agent of the subject company with one or more of the requirements of this section.
(e)
Content of the bidder's request.
The bidder's written request referred to in paragraph (a) of this section shall include the following:
(1) The identity of the bidder;
(2) The title of the class of securities which is the subject of the bidder's tender offer;
(3) A statement that the bidder is making a request to the subject company pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section for the use of the stockholder list and security position listings for the purpose of disseminating a tender offer to security holders;
(4) A statement that the bidder is aware of and will comply with the provisions of paragraph (f) of this section;
(5) A statement as to whether or not it has elected pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section to disseminate amendments disclosing material changes to the tender offer materials pursuant to this section; and
(6) The name, address and telephone number of the person whom the subject company shall contact pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(f)
Obligations of the bidder.
Any bidder who requests that a subject company comply with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall comply with the following paragraphs.
(1) The bidder shall make an election whether or not to require the subject company to disseminate amendments disclosing material changes to the tender offer materials pursuant to this section, which election shall be included in the request referred to in paragraph (a) of this section and shall not be revocable by the bidder during the tender offer and extensions thereof.
(2) With respect to a tender offer subject to section 14(d)(1) of the Act in which the consideration consists solely of cash and/or securities exempt from registration under section 3 of the Securities Act of 1933, the bidder shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14d-4(a)(3).
(3) If the subject company elects to comply with paragraph (b) of this section,
(i) The bidder shall promptly deliver the tender offer materials after receipt of the notification from the subject company as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section;
(ii) The bidder shall promptly notify the subject company of any amendment to the bidder's tender offer materials requiring compliance by the subject company with paragraph (b)(6) of this section and shall promptly deliver such amendment to the subject company pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section;
(iii) The bidder shall advance to the subject company an amount equal to the approximate cost of conducting mailings to security holders computed in accordance with paragraph (g)(2) of this section;
(iv) The bidder shall promptly reimburse the subject company for the direct costs incidental to compliance by the subject company and its agents in performing the acts required by this section computed in accordance with paragraph (g)(2) of this section which are in excess of the amount advanced pursuant to paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section; and
(v) The bidder shall mail by means of first class mail or otherwise furnish with reasonable promptness the tender offer materials to any security holder who requests such materials.
(4) If the subject company elects to comply with paragraph (c) of this section,
(i) The bidder shall use the stockholder list and security position listings furnished to the bidder pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section exclusively in the dissemination of tender offer materials to security holders in connection with the bidder's tender offer and extensions thereof;
(ii) The bidder shall return the stockholder lists and security position listings furnished to the bidder pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section promptly after the termination of the bidder's tender offer;
(iii) The bidder shall accept, handle and return the stockholder lists and security position listings furnished to the bidder pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section to the subject company on a confidential basis;
(iv) The bidder shall not retain any stockholder list or security position listing furnished by the subject company pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, or any copy thereof, nor retain any information derived from any such list or listing or copy thereof after the termination of the bidder's tender offer;
(v) The bidder shall mail by means of first class mail, at its own expense, a copy of its tender offer materials to each person whose identity appears on the stockholder list as furnished and updated by the subject company pursuant to paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section;
(vi) The bidder shall contact the participants named on the security position listing of any clearing agency, make inquiry of each participant as to the approximate number of sets of tender offer materials required by each such participant, and furnish, at its own expense, sufficient sets of tender offer materials and any amendment thereto to each such participant for subsequent transmission to the beneficial owners of the securities being sought by the bidder;
(vii) The bidder shall mail by means of first class mail or otherwise furnish with reasonable promptness the tender offer materials to any security holder who requests such materials; and
(viii) The bidder shall promptly reimburse the subject company for direct costs incidental to compliance by the subject company and its agents in performing the acts required by this section computed in accordance with paragraph (g)(2) of this section.
(g)
Delivery of materials, computation of direct costs.
(1) Whenever the bidder is required to deliver tender offer materials or amendments to tender offer materials, the bidder shall deliver to the subject company at the location specified by the subject company in its notice given pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section a number of sets of the materials or of the amendment, as the case may be, at least equal to the approximate number of security holders specified by the subject company in such notice, together with appropriate envelopes or other containers therefor:
Provided, however,
That such delivery shall be deemed not to have been made unless the bidder has complied with paragraph (f)(3)(iii) of this section at the time the materials or amendments, as the case may be, are delivered.
(2) The approximate direct cost of mailing the bidder's tender offer materials shall be computed by adding (i) the direct cost incidental to the mailing of the subject company's last annual report to shareholders (excluding employee time), less the costs of preparation and printing of the report, and postage, plus (ii) the amount of first class postage required to mail the bidder's tender offer materials. The approximate direct costs incidental to the mailing of the amendments to the bidder's tender offer materials shall be computed by adding (iii) the estimated direct costs of preparing mailing labels, of updating shareholder lists and of third party handling charges plus (iv) the amount of first class postage required to mail the bidder's amendment. Direct costs incidental to the mailing of the bidder's tender offer materials and amendments thereto when finally computed may include all reasonable charges paid by the subject company to third parties for supplies or services, including costs attendant to preparing shareholder lists, mailing labels, handling the bidder's materials, contacting participants named on security position listings and for postage, but shall exclude indirect costs, such as employee time which is devoted to either contesting or supporting the tender offer on behalf of the subject company. The final billing for direct costs shall be accompanied by an appropriate accounting in reasonable detail.

# Note to § 240.14
d

# -5.
Reasonably prompt methods of distribution to security holders may be used instead of mailing. If alternative methods are chosen, the approximate direct costs of distribution shall be computed by adding the estimated direct costs of preparing the document for distribution through the chosen medium (including updating of shareholder lists) plus the estimated reasonable cost of distribution
through that medium. Direct costs incidental to the distribution of tender offer materials and amendments thereto may include all reasonable charges paid by the subject company to third parties for supplies or services, including costs attendant to preparing shareholder lists, handling the bidder's materials, and contacting participants named on security position listings, but shall not include indirect costs, such as employee time which is devoted to either contesting or supporting the tender offer on behalf of the subject company.
[44 FR 70342, Dec. 6, 1979, as amended at 61 FR 24657, May 15, 1996; 64 FR 61460, Nov. 10, 1999]
§ 240.14d-6
Disclosure of tender offer information to security holders.
(a)
Information required on date of commencement
—(1)
Long-form publication.
If a tender offer is published, sent or given to security holders on the date of commencement by means of long-form publication under § 240.14d-4(a)(1), the long-form publication must include the information required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(2)
Summary publication.
If a tender offer is published, sent or given to security holders on the date of commencement by means of summary publication under § 240.14d-4(a)(2):
(i) The summary advertisement must contain at least the information required by paragraph (d)(2) of this section; and
(ii) The tender offer materials furnished by the bidder upon request of any security holder must include the information required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(3)
Use of stockholder lists and security position listings.
If a tender offer is published, sent or given to security holders on the date of commencement by the use of stockholder lists and security position listings under § 240.14d-4(a)(3):
(i) The summary advertisement must contain at least the information required by paragraph (d)(2) of this section; and
(ii) The tender offer materials transmitted to security holders pursuant to such lists and security position listings and furnished by the bidder upon the request of any security holder must include the information required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(4)
Other tender offers.
If a tender offer is published or sent or given to security holders other than pursuant to § 240.14d-4(a), the tender offer materials that are published or sent or given to security holders on the date of commencement of such offer must include the information required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(b)
Information required in other tender offer materials published after commencement.
Except for tender offer materials described in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii) and (a)(3)(ii) of this section, additional tender offer materials published, sent or given to security holders after commencement must include:
(1) The identities of the bidder and subject company;
(2) The amount and class of securities being sought;
(3) The type and amount of consideration being offered; and
(4) The scheduled expiration date of the tender offer, whether the tender offer may be extended and, if so, the procedures for extension of the tender offer.

# Instruction to paragraph (
b

# ):
If the additional tender offer materials are summary advertisements, they also must include the information required by paragraphs (d)(2)(v) of this section.
(c)
Material changes.
A material change in the information published or sent or given to security holders must be promptly disclosed to security holders in additional tender offer materials.
(d)
Information to be included
—(1)
Tender offer materials other than summary publication.
The following information is required by paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3)(ii) and (a)(4) of this section:
(i) The information required by Item 1 of Schedule TO (§ 240.14d-100) (Summary Term Sheet); and
(ii) The information required by the remaining items of Schedule TO (§ 240.14d-100) for third-party tender offers, except for Item 12 (exhibits) of Schedule TO (§ 240.14d-100), or a fair and adequate summary of the information.
(2)
Summary Publication.
The following information is required in a summary advertisement under paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (a)(3)(i) of this section:
(i) The identity of the bidder and the subject company;
(ii) The information required by Item 1004(a)(1) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1004(a)(1) of this chapter);
(iii) If the tender offer is for less than all of the outstanding securities of a class of equity securities, a statement as to whether the purpose or one of the purposes of the tender offer is to acquire or influence control of the business of the subject company;
(iv) A statement that the information required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section is incorporated by reference into the summary advertisement;
(v) Appropriate instructions as to how security holders may obtain promptly, at the bidder's expense, the bidder's tender offer materials; and
(vi) In a tender offer published or sent or given to security holders by use of stockholder lists and security position listings under § 240.14d-4(a)(3), a statement that a request is being made for such lists and listings. The summary publication also must state that tender offer materials will be mailed to record holders and will be furnished to brokers, banks and similar persons whose name appears or whose nominee appears on the list of security holders or, if applicable, who are listed as participants in a clearing agency's security position listing for subsequent transmittal to beneficial owners of such securities. If the list furnished to the bidder also included beneficial owners pursuant to § 240.14d-5(c)(1) and tender offer materials will be mailed directly to beneficial holders, include a statement to that effect.
(3)
No transmittal letter.
Neither the initial summary advertisement nor any subsequent summary advertisement may include a transmittal letter (the letter furnished to security holders for transmission of securities sought in the tender offer) or any amendment to the transmittal letter.
[64 FR 61460, Nov. 10, 1999]
§ 240.14d-7
Additional withdrawal rights.
(a)
Rights.
(1) In addition to the provisions of section 14(d)(5) of the Act, any person who has deposited securities pursuant to a tender offer has the right to withdraw any such securities during the period such offer request or invitation remains open.
(2)
Exemption during subsequent offering period.
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 14(d)(5) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78n(d)(5)) and paragraph (a) of this section, the bidder need not offer withdrawal rights during a subsequent offering period.
(b)
Notice of withdrawal.
Notice of withdrawal pursuant to this section shall be deemed to be timely upon the receipt by the bidder's depositary of a written notice of withdrawal specifying the name(s) of the tendering stockholder(s), the number or amount of the securities to be withdrawn and the name(s) in which the certificate(s) is (are) registered, if different from that of the tendering security holder(s). A bidder may impose other reasonable requirements, including certificate numbers and a signed request for withdrawal accompained by a signature guarantee, as conditions precedent to the physical release of withdrawn securities.
[44 FR 70345, Dec. 6, 1979, as amended at 51 FR 25882, July 17, 1986; 51 FR 32630, Sept. 15, 1986; 64 FR 61461, Nov. 10, 1999; 76 FR 71876, Nov. 21, 2011]
§ 240.14d-8
Exemption from statutory pro rata requirements.
Notwithstanding the pro rata provisions of section 14(d)(6) of the Act, if any person makes a tender offer or request or invitation for tenders, for less than all of the outstanding equity securities of a class, and if a greater number of securities are deposited pursuant thereto than such person is bound or willing to take up and pay for, the securities taken up and paid for shall be taken up and paid for as nearly as may be pro rata, disregarding fractions, according to the number of securities deposited by each depositor during the period such offer, request or invitation remains open.
(Sec. 23, 48 Stat. 901; sec. 203(a), 49 Stat. 704; sec. 8, 49 Stat. 1379; sec. 10, 78 Stat. 580; sec. 3, 82 Stat. 455; secs. 3-5, 84 Stat. 1497; sec. 18, 89 Stat. 155; 15 U.S.C. 78n(e), 78w(a))
[47 FR 57680, Dec. 28, 1982]
§ 240.14d-9
Recommendation or solicitation by the subject company and others.
(a)
Pre-commencement communications.
A communication by a person described in paragraph (e) of this section with respect to a tender offer will not be deemed to constitute a recommendation or solicitation under this section if:
(1) The tender offer has not commenced under § 240.14d-2; and
(2) The communication is filed under cover of Schedule 14D-9 (§ 240.14d-101) with the Commission no later than the date of the communication.

# Instructions to paragraph (
a

# )(2):
1. The box on the front of Schedule 14D-9 (§ 240.14d-101) indicating that the filing contains pre-commencement communications must be checked.
2. Any communications made in connection with an exchange offer registered under the Securities Act of 1933 need only be filed under § 230.425 of this chapter and will be deemed filed under this section.
3. Each pre-commencement written communication must include a prominent legend in clear, plain language advising security holders to read the company's solicitation/recommendation statement when it is available because it contains important information. The legend also must advise investors that they can get the recommendation and other filed documents for free at the Commission's web site and explain which documents are free from the filer.
4. See §§ 230.135, 230.165 and 230.166 of this chapter for pre-commencement communications made in connection with registered exchange offers.
(b)
Post-commencement communications.
After commencement by a bidder under § 240.14d-2, no solicitation or recommendation to security holders may be made by any person described in paragraph (e) of this section with respect to a tender offer for such securities unless as soon as practicable on the date such solicitation or recommendation is first published or sent or given to security holders such person complies with the following:
(1) Such person shall file with the Commission a Tender Offer Solicitation/Recommendation Statement on Schedule 14D-9 (§ 240.14d-101), including all exhibits thereto; and
(2) If such person is either the subject company or an affiliate of the subject company,
(i) Such person shall hand deliver a copy of the Schedule 14D-9 to the bidder at its principal office or at the address of the person authorized to receive notices and communications (which is set forth on the cover sheet of the bidder's Schedule TO (§ 240.14d-100) filed with the Commission; and
(ii) Such person shall give telephonic notice (which notice to the extent possible shall be given prior to the opening of the market) of the information required by Items 1003(d) and 1012(a) of Regulation M—A (§ 229.1003(d) and § 229.1012(a)) and shall mail a copy of the Schedule to each national securities exchange where the class of securities is registered and listed for trading and, if the class is authorized for quotation in the NASDAQ interdealer quotation system, to the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (“NASD”).
(3) If such person is neither the subject company nor an affiliate of the subject company,
(i) Such person shall mail a copy of the schedule to the bidder at its principal office or at the address of the person authorized to receive notices and communications (which is set forth on the cover sheet of the bidder's Schedule TO (§ 240.14d-100) filed with the Commission); and
(ii) Such person shall mail a copy of the Schedule to the subject company at its principal office.
(c)
Amendments.
If any material change occurs in the information set forth in the Schedule 14D-9 (§ 240.14d-101) required by this section, the person who filed such Schedule 14D-9 shall:
(1) File with the Commission an amendment on Schedule 14D-9 (§ 240.14d-101) disclosing such change promptly, but not later than the date such material is first published, sent or given to security holders; and
(2) Promptly deliver copies and give notice of the amendment in the same manner as that specified in paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section, whichever is applicable; and
(3) Promptly disclose and disseminate such change in a manner reasonably designed to inform security holders of such change.
(d)
Information required in solicitation or recommendation.
Any solicitation or
recommendation to holders of a class of securities referred to in section 14(d)(1) of the Act with respect to a tender offer for such securities shall include the name of the person making such solicitation or recommendation and the information required by Items 1 through 8 of Schedule 14D-9 (§ 240.14d-101) or a fair and adequate summary thereof:
Provided, however,
That such solicitation or recommendation may omit any of such information previously furnished to security holders of such class of securities by such person with respect to such tender offer.
(e)
Applicability.
(1) Except as is provided in paragraphs (e)(2) and (f) of this section, this section shall only apply to the following persons:
(i) The subject company, any director, officer, employee, affiliate or subsidiary of the subject company;
(ii) Any record holder or beneficial owner of any security issued by the subject company, by the bidder, or by any affiliate of either the subject company or the bidder; and
(iii) Any person who makes a solicitation or recommendation to security holders on behalf of any of the foregoing or on behalf of the bidder other than by means of a solicitation or recommendation to security holders which has been filed with the Commission pursuant to this section or Rule 14d-3 (§ 240.14d-3).
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (e)(1) of this section, this section shall not apply to the following persons:
(i) A bidder who has filed a Schedule TO (§ 240.14d-100) pursuant to Rule 14d-3 (§ 240.14d-3);
(ii) Attorneys, banks, brokers, fiduciaries or investment advisers who are not participating in a tender offer in more than a ministerial capacity and who furnish information and/or advice regarding such tender offer to their customers or clients on the unsolicited request of such customers or clients or solely pursuant to a contract or a relationship providing for advice to the customer or client to whom the information and/or advice is given.
(iii) Any person specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section if:
(A) The subject company is the subject of a tender offer conducted under § 240.14d-1(c);
(B) Any person specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section furnishes to the Commission on Form CB (§ 249.480 of this chapter) the entire informational document it publishes or otherwise disseminates to holders of the class of securities in connection with the tender offer no later than the next business day after publication or dissemination;
(C) Any person specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section disseminates any informational document to U.S. holders, including any amendments thereto, in English, on a comparable basis to that provided to security holders in the issuer's home jurisdiction; and
(D) Any person specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section disseminates by publication in its home jurisdiction, such person must publish the information in the United States in a manner reasonably calculated to inform U.S. security holders of the offer.
(f)
Stop-look-and-listen communication.
This section shall not apply to the subject company with respect to a communication by the subject company to its security holders which only:
(1) Identifies the tender offer by the bidder;
(2) States that such tender offer is under consideration by the subject company's board of directors and/or management;
(3) States that on or before a specified date (which shall be no later than 10 business days from the date of commencement of such tender offer) the subject company will advise such security holders of (i) whether the subject company recommends acceptance or rejection of such tender offer; expresses no opinion and remains neutral toward such tender offer; or is unable to take a position with respect to such tender offer and (ii) the reason(s) for the position taken by the subject company with respect to the tender offer (including the inability to take a position); and
(4) Requests such security holders to defer making a determination whether to accept or reject such tender offer until they have been advised of the subject company's position with respect thereto pursuant to paragraph (f)(3) of this section.
(g)
Statement of management's position.
A statement by the subject company's
of its position with respect to a tender offer which is required to be published or sent or given to security holders pursuant to Rule 14e-2 shall be deemed to constitute a solicitation or recommendation within the meaning of this section and section 14(d)(4) of the Act.
[44 FR 70345, Dec. 6, 1979, as amended at 64 FR 61406, 61461, Nov. 10, 1999; 73 FR 17814, Apr. 1, 2008]
§ 240.14d-10
Equal treatment of security holders.
(a) No bidder shall make a tender offer unless:
(1) The tender offer is open to all security holders of the class of securities subject to the tender offer; and
(2) The consideration paid to any security holder for securities tendered in the tender offer is the highest consideration paid to any other security holder for securities tendered in the tender offer.
(b) Paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall not:
(1) Affect dissemination under Rule 14d-4 (§ 240.14d-4); or
(2) Prohibit a bidder from making a tender offer excluding all security holders in a state where the bidder is prohibited from making the tender offer by administrative or judicial action pursuant to a state statute after a good faith effort by the bidder to comply with such statute.
(c) Paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall not prohibit the offer of more than one type of consideration in a tender offer,
Provided,
That:
(1) Security holders are afforded equal right to elect among each of the types of consideration offered; and
(2) The highest consideration of each type paid to any security holder is paid to any other security holder receiving that type of consideration.
(d)(1) Paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall not prohibit the negotiation, execution or amendment of an employment compensation, severance or other employee benefit arrangement, or payments made or to be made or benefits granted or to be granted according to such an arrangement, with respect to any security holder of the subject company, where the amount payable under the arrangement:
(i) Is being paid or granted as compensation for past services performed, future services to be performed, or future services to be refrained from performing, by the security holder (and matters incidental thereto); and
(ii) Is not calculated based on the number of securities tendered or to be tendered in the tender offer by the security holder.
(2) The provisions of paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall be satisfied and, therefore, pursuant to this non-exclusive safe harbor, the negotiation, execution or amendment of an arrangement and any payments made or to be made or benefits granted or to be granted according to that arrangement shall not be prohibited by paragraph (a)(2) of this section, if the arrangement is approved as an employment compensation, severance or other employee benefit arrangement solely by independent directors as follows:
(i) The compensation committee or a committee of the board of directors that performs functions similar to a compensation committee of the subject company approves the arrangement, regardless of whether the subject company is a party to the arrangement, or, if the bidder is a party to the arrangement, the compensation committee or a committee of the board of directors that performs functions similar to a compensation committee of the bidder approves the arrangement; or
(ii) If the subject company's or bidder's board of directors, as applicable, does not have a compensation committee or a committee of the board of directors that performs functions similar to a compensation committee or if none of the members of the subject company's or bidder's compensation committee or committee that performs functions similar to a compensation committee is independent, a special committee of the board of directors formed to consider and approve the arrangement approves the arrangement; or
(iii) If the subject company or bidder, as applicable, is a foreign private issuer, any or all members of the board of directors or any committee of the
board of directors authorized to approve employment compensation, severance or other employee benefit arrangements under the laws or regulations of the home country approves the arrangement.

# Instructions to paragraph (
d

# )(2):
For purposes of determining whether the members of the committee approving an arrangement in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(2) of this section are independent, the following provisions shall apply:
1. If the bidder or subject company, as applicable, is a listed issuer (as defined in § 240.10A-3 of this chapter) whose securities are listed either on a national securities exchange registered pursuant to section 6(a) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78f(a)) or in an inter-dealer quotation system of a national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(a) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-3(a)) that has independence requirements for compensation committee members that have been approved by the Commission (as those requirements may be modified or supplemented), apply the bidder's or subject company's definition of independence that it uses for determining that the members of the compensation committee are independent in compliance with the listing standards applicable to compensation committee members of the listed issuer.
2. If the bidder or subject company, as applicable, is not a listed issuer (as defined in § 240.10A-3 of this chapter), apply the independence requirements for compensation committee members of a national securities exchange registered pursuant to section 6(a) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78f(a)) or an inter-dealer quotation system of a national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(a) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-3(a)) that have been approved by the Commission (as those requirements may be modified or supplemented). Whatever definition the bidder or subject company, as applicable, chooses, it must apply that definition consistently to all members of the committee approving the arrangement.
3. Notwithstanding Instructions 1 and 2 to paragraph (d)(2), if the bidder or subject company, as applicable, is a closed-end investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, a director is considered to be independent if the director is not, other than in his or her capacity as a member of the board of directors or any board committee, an “interested person” of the investment company, as defined in section 2(a)(19) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(19)).
4. If the bidder or the subject company, as applicable, is a foreign private issuer, apply either the independence standards set forth in Instructions 1 and 2 to paragraph (d)(2) or the independence requirements of the laws, regulations, codes or standards of the home country of the bidder or subject company, as applicable, for members of the board of directors or the committee of the board of directors approving the arrangement.
5. A determination by the bidder's or the subject company's board of directors, as applicable, that the members of the board of directors or the committee of the board of directors, as applicable, approving an arrangement in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(2) are independent in accordance with the provisions of this instruction to paragraph (d)(2) shall satisfy the independence requirements of paragraph (d)(2).

# Instruction to paragraph (
d

# ):
The fact that the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section extend only to employment compensation, severance and other employee benefit arrangements and not to other arrangements, such as commercial arrangements, does not raise any inference that a payment under any such other arrangement constitutes consideration paid for securities in a tender offer.
(e) If the offer and sale of securities constituting consideration offered in a tender offer is prohibited by the appropriate authority of a state after a good faith effort by the bidder to register or qualify the offer and sale of such securities in such state:
(1) The bidder may offer security holders in such state an alternative form of consideration; and
(2) Paragraph (c) of this section shall not operate to require the bidder to offer or pay the alternative form of consideration to security holders in any other state.
(f) This section shall not apply to any tender offer with respect to which the Commission, upon written request or upon its own motion, either unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions, determines that compliance with this section is not necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
[51 FR 25882, July 17, 1986, as amended at 71 FR 65408, Nov. 8, 2006]
§ 240.14d-11
Subsequent offering period.
A bidder may elect to provide a subsequent offering period of at least three business days during which tenders will be accepted if:
(a) The initial offering period of at least 20 business days has expired;
(b) The offer is for all outstanding securities of the class that is the subject of the tender offer, and if the bidder is offering security holders a choice of different forms of consideration, there is no ceiling on any form of consideration offered;
(c) The bidder immediately accepts and promptly pays for all securities tendered during the initial offering period;
(d) The bidder announces the results of the tender offer, including the approximate number and percentage of securities deposited to date, no later than 9:00 a.m. Eastern time on the next business day after the expiration date of the initial offering period and immediately begins the subsequent offering period;
(e) The bidder immediately accepts and promptly pays for all securities as they are tendered during the subsequent offering period; and
(f) The bidder offers the same form and amount of consideration to security holders in both the initial and the subsequent offering period.

# Note to § 240.14
d

# -11:
No withdrawal rights apply during the subsequent offering period in accordance with § 240.14d-7(a)(2).
[64 FR 61462, Nov. 10, 1999, as amended at 73 FR 60092, Oct. 9, 2008]
§ 240.14d-100
Schedule TO. Tender offer statement under section 14(d)(1) or 13(e)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Securities and Exchange Commission
,
Washington, D.C. 20549
Schedule TO
Tender Offer Statement under Section 14(d)(1) or 13(e)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(Amendment No. ______)*
(Name of Subject Company (issuer))
(Names of Filing Persons (identifying status as offeror, issuer or other person))
(Title of Class of Securities)
(CUSIP Number of Class of Securities)
(Name, address, and telephone numbers of person authorized to receive notices and communications on behalf of filing persons)
[ ] Check the box if the filing relates solely to preliminary communications made before the commencement of a tender offer.
Check the appropriate boxes below to designate any transactions to which the statement relates:
[ ] third-party tender offer subject to Rule 14d-1.
[ ] issuer tender offer subject to Rule 13e-4.
[ ] going-private transaction subject to Rule 13e-3.
[ ] amendment to Schedule 13D under Rule 13d-2.
Check the following box if the filing is a final amendment reporting the results of the tender offer: [ ]
If applicable, check the appropriate box(es) below to designate the appropriate rule provision(s) relied upon:
[ ] Rule 13e-4(i) (Cross-Border Issuer Tender Offer)
[ ] Rule 14d-1(d) (Cross-Border Third-Party Tender Offer)
General Instructions:
A. File eight copies of the statement, including all exhibits, with the Commission if paper filing is permitted.
B. This filing must be accompanied by a fee payable to the Commission as required by § 240.0-11.
C. If the statement is filed by a general or limited partnership, syndicate or other group, the information called for by Items 3 and 5-8 for a third-party tender offer and Items 5-8 for an issuer tender offer must be given with respect to: (i) Each partner of the general partnership; (ii) each partner who is, or functions as, a general partner of the limited partnership; (iii) each member of the syndicate or group; and (iv) each person controlling the partner or member. If the statement is filed by a corporation or if a person referred to in (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) of this Instruction is a corporation, the information called for by the items specified above must be given with respect to: (a) Each executive officer and director of the corporation; (b) each person controlling the corporation; and (c) each executive officer and director of any corporation or other person ultimately in control of the corporation.
D. If the filing contains only preliminary communications made before the commencement of a tender offer, no signature or filing fee is required. The filer need not respond to the items in the schedule. Any pre-commencement communications that are filed under cover of this schedule need not be incorporated by reference into the schedule.
E. If an item is inapplicable or the answer is in the negative, so state. The statement published, sent or given to security holders may omit negative and not applicable responses. If the schedule includes any information that is not published, sent or given to security holders, provide that information or specifically incorporate it by reference under the appropriate item number and heading in the schedule. Do not recite the
text of disclosure requirements in the schedule or any document published, sent or given to security holders. Indicate clearly the coverage of the requirements without referring to the text of the items.
F. Information contained in exhibits to the statement may be incorporated by reference in answer or partial answer to any item unless it would render the answer misleading, incomplete, unclear or confusing. A copy of any information that is incorporated by reference or a copy of the pertinent pages of a document containing the information must be submitted with this statement as an exhibit, unless it was previously filed with the Commission electronically on EDGAR. If an exhibit contains information responding to more than one item in the schedule, all information in that exhibit may be incorporated by reference once in response to the several items in the schedule for which it provides an answer. Information incorporated by reference is deemed filed with the Commission for all purposes of the Act.
G. A filing person may amend its previously filed Schedule 13D (§ 240.13d-101) on Schedule TO (§ 240.14d-100) if the appropriate box on the cover page is checked to indicate a combined filing and the information called for by the fourteen disclosure items on the cover page of Schedule 13D (§ 240.13d-101) is provided on the cover page of the combined filing with respect to each filing person.
H. The final amendment required by § 240.14d-3(b)(2) and § 240.13e-4(c)(4) will satisfy the reporting requirements of section 13(d) of the Act with respect to all securities acquired by the offeror in the tender offer.
I. Amendments disclosing a material change in the information set forth in this statement may omit any information previously disclosed in this statement.
J. If the tender offer disclosed on this statement involves a going-private transaction, a combined Schedule TO (§ 240.14d-100) and Schedule 13E-3 (§ 240.13e-100) may be filed with the Commission under cover of Schedule TO. The Rule 13e-3 box on the cover page of the Schedule TO must be checked to indicate a combined filing. All information called for by both schedules must be provided except that Items 1-3, 5, 8 and 9 of Schedule TO may be omitted to the extent those items call for information that duplicates the item requirements in Schedule 13E-3.
K. If the filing relates to a de-SPAC transaction, as defined in § 229.1601(a) (Item 1601(a) of Regulation S-K), then the provisions of §§ 229.1603, 229.1604(b)(1) through (6) and (c) and 229.1605 through 229.1609 (Items 1603, 1604(b)(1) through (6) and (c) and 1605 through 1609 of Regulation S-K) apply in addition to the provisions of this schedule and disclosure thereunder must be provided in this schedule, and the structured data provisions of § 229.1610 (Item 1610 of Regulation S-K) apply to those disclosures. The information required by § 229.1604(b)(1) through (6) must be briefly described in the front of the disclosure document. If the filing by a special purpose acquisition company, as defined in § 229.1601(b) (Item 1601(b) of Regulation S-K), relates to any other redemption of securities offered to security holders, then the provisions of § 229.1608 (Item 1608 of Regulation S-K) apply in addition to the provisions of this schedule and disclosure thereunder, if applicable, must be provided in this schedule and the structured data provisions of § 229.1610 (Item 1610 of Regulation S-K) apply to those disclosures. To the extent that the applicable disclosure requirements of subpart 229.1600 of Regulation S-K are inconsistent with the disclosure requirements of this filing, the requirements of subpart 229.1600 of this chapter are controlling.
L. An Interactive Data File must be included in accordance with § 232.405 (Rule 405 of Regulation S-T) and the EDGAR Filer Manual where applicable pursuant to General Instruction K and § 232.405(b).
M. For purposes of this statement, the following definitions apply:
(1) The term
offeror
means any person who makes a tender offer or on whose behalf a tender offer is made;
(2) The term
issuer tender offer
has the same meaning as in Rule 13e-4(a)(2); and
(3) The term third-party tender offer means a tender offer that is not an issuer tender offer.

# Special Instructions for Complying With Schedule TO
Under Sections 13(e), 14(d) and 23 of the Act and the rules and regulations of the Act, the Commission is authorized to solicit the information required to be supplied by this schedule.
Disclosure of the information specified in this schedule is mandatory. The information will be used for the primary purpose of disclosing tender offer and going-private transactions. This statement will be made a matter of public record. Therefore, any information given will be available for inspection by any member of the public.
Because of the public nature of the information, the Commission can use it for a variety of purposes, including referral to other governmental authorities or securities self-regulatory organizations for investigatory purposes or in connection with litigation involving the federal securities laws or other civil, criminal or regulatory statutes or provisions.
Failure to disclose the information required by this schedule may result in civil or criminal action against the persons involved for violation of the federal securities laws and rules.

# Item 1. Summary Term Sheet
Furnish the information required by Item 1001 of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1001 of this chapter) unless information is disclosed to security holders in a prospectus that meets the requirements of § 230.421(d) of this chapter.

# Item 2. Subject Company Information
Furnish the information required by Item 1002(a) through (c) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1002 of this chapter).

# Item 3. Identity and Background of Filing Person
Furnish the information required by Item 1003(a) through (c) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1003 of this chapter) for a third-party tender offer and the information required by Item 1003(a) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1003 of this chapter) for an issuer tender offer.

# Item 4. Terms of the Transaction
Furnish the information required by Item 1004(a) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1004 of this chapter) for a third-party tender offer and the information required by Item 1004(a) through (b) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1004 of this chapter) for an issuer tender offer.

# Item 5. Past Contacts, Transactions, Negotiations and Agreements
Furnish the information required by Item 1005(a) and (b) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1005 of this chapter) for a third-party tender offer and the information required by Item 1005(e) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1005) for an issuer tender offer.

# Item 6. Purposes of the Transaction and Plans or Proposals
Furnish the information required by Item 1006(a) and (c)(1) through (7) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1006 of this chapter) for a third-party tender offer and the information required by Item 1006(a) through (c) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1006 of this chapter) for an issuer tender offer.

# Item 7. Source and Amount of Funds or Other Consideration
Furnish the information required by Item 1007(a), (b) and (d) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1007 of this chapter).

# Item 8. Interest in Securities of the Subject Company
Furnish the information required by Item 1008 of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1008 of this chapter).

# Item 9. Persons/Assets, Retained, Employed, Compensated or Used
Furnish the information required by Item 1009(a) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1009 of this chapter).

# Item 10. Financial Statements
If material, furnish the information required by Item 1010(a) and (b) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1010 of this chapter) for the issuer in an issuer tender offer and for the offeror in a third-party tender offer.
Instructions to Item 10:
1. Financial statements must be provided when the offeror's financial condition is material to security holder's decision whether to sell, tender or hold the securities sought. The facts and circumstances of a tender offer, particularly the terms of the tender offer, may influence a determination as to whether financial statements are material, and thus required to be disclosed.
2. Financial statements are
not
considered material when: (a) The consideration offered consists solely of cash; (b) the offer is not subject to any financing condition;
and
either: (c) the offeror is a public reporting company under Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Act that files reports electronically on EDGAR, or (d) the offer is for all outstanding securities of the subject class. Financial information may be required, however, in a two-tier transaction.
See
Instruction 5 below.
3. The filing person may incorporate by reference financial statements contained in any document filed with the Commission, solely for the purposes of this schedule, if: (a) The financial statements substantially meet the requirements of this item; (b) an express statement is made that the financial statements are incorporated by reference; (c) the information incorporated by reference is clearly identified by page, paragraph, caption or otherwise; and (d) if the information incorporated by reference is not filed with this schedule, an indication is made where the information may be inspected and copies obtained. Financial statements that are required to be presented in comparative form for two or more fiscal years or periods may not be incorporated by reference unless the material incorporated by reference includes the entire period for which the comparative data is required to be given.
See
General Instruction F to this schedule.
4. If the offeror in a third-party tender offer is a natural person, and such person's financial information is material, disclose the net worth of the offeror. If the offeror's net worth is derived from material amounts of assets that are not readily marketable or there are material guarantees and contingencies, disclose the nature and approximate amount of the individual's net worth that consists of illiquid assets and the magnitude of any guarantees or contingencies that may
negatively affect the natural person's net worth.
5. Pro forma financial information is required in a negotiated third-party cash tender offer when securities are intended to be offered in a subsequent merger or other transaction in which remaining target securities are acquired and the acquisition of the subject company is significant to the offeror under § 210.11-01(b)(1) of this chapter. The offeror must disclose the financial information specified in Item 3(f) and Item 5 of Form S-4 (§ 239.25 of this chapter) in the schedule filed with the Commission, but may furnish only the summary financial information specified in Item 3(d), (e) and (f) of Form S-4 in the disclosure document sent to security holders. If pro forma financial information is required by this instruction, the historical financial statements specified in Item 1010 of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1010 of this chapter) are required for the bidder.
6. The disclosure materials disseminated to security holders may contain the summarized financial information specified by Item 1010(c) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1010 of this chapter) instead of the financial information required by Item 1010(a) and (b). In that case, the financial information required by Item 1010(a) and (b) of Regulation M-A must be disclosed in the statement. If summarized financial information is disseminated to security holders, include appropriate instructions on how more complete financial information can be obtained. If the summarized financial information is prepared on the basis of a comprehensive body of accounting principles other than U.S. GAAP, the summarized financial information must be accompanied by a reconciliation as described in Instruction 8 of this Item.
7. If the offeror is not subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Act, the financial statements required by this Item need not be audited if audited financial statements are not available or obtainable without unreasonable cost or expense. Make a statement to that effect and the reasons for their unavailability.
8. If the financial statements required by this Item are prepared on the basis of a comprehensive body of accounting principles other than U.S. GAAP, provide a reconciliation to U.S. GAAP in accordance with Item 17 of Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter), unless a reconciliation is unavailable or not obtainable without unreasonable cost or expense. At a minimum, however, when financial statements are prepared on a basis other than U.S. GAAP, a narrative description of all material variations in accounting principles, practices and methods used in preparing the non-U.S. GAAP financial statements from those accepted in the U.S. must be presented.

# Item 11. Additional Information.
Furnish the information required by Item 1011(a) and (c) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1011 of this chapter).

# Item 12. Exhibits
File each of the following as an exhibit to the Schedule:
(a) All documents specified in Item 1016(a), (b), (d), (g) and (h) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1016 of this chapter);
(b) If the filing relates to a de-SPAC transaction, as defined in § 229.1601(a) (Item 1601(a) of Regulation S-K), all reports, opinions, or appraisals required to be filed or included by § 229.1607(c) (Item 1607(c) of Regulation S-K); and
(c) The transaction valuation, fee rate, amount of filing fee and, as applicable, information relating to reliance on § 240.0-11(a)(2) in the tabular form indicated.

# Calculation of Filing Fee Tables
Table 1—Transaction Valuation
Transaction valuation
Fee rate
Amount of
filing fee
Fees to Be Paid
X
X
X
Fees Previously Paid
X
X
Total Transaction Valuation
X
Total Fees Due for Filing
X
Total Fees Previously Paid
X
Total Fee Offsets
X
Net Fee Due
X
Table 2—Fee Offset Claims and Sources
Registrant or filer name
Form or
filing type
File number
Initial filing date
Filing date
Fee offset claimed
Fee paid with fee
offset source
Fee Offset Claims
X
X
X
X
Fee Offset Sources
X
X
X
X
X
Instructions to the Calculation of Filing Fee Tables and Related Disclosure (“Instructions”):
1. General Requirements.
A. Applicable Table Requirements.
The “X” designation indicates the information required to be disclosed, as applicable, in tabular format. Add as many rows of each table as necessary.
B. Fee Rate.
For the current fee rate,
see https://www.sec.gov/ofm/Article/feeamt.html.
C. Explanations.
If not otherwise explained in response to these instructions, disclose specific details relating to the fee calculation as necessary to clarify the information presented in each table, including references to the applicable provisions of Rule 0-11 (§ 240.0-11 of this chapter). All disclosure these Instructions require that is not specifically required to be presented in tabular format must appear in narrative format immediately after the table(s) to which it corresponds.
D. Submission Method.
If a filing fee exhibit is required to be provided pursuant to this Item 12(b), it must be submitted as required by Rule 408 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.408 of this chapter).
2. Table 1: Transaction Valuation Table and Related Disclosure.
A. Fees to Be Paid and Fees Previously Paid.
i. Fees to Be Paid.
Provide the information Table 1 requires for the line item “Fees to Be Paid” as follows:
a. Initial Filings.
For an initial filing on this schedule, provide the required information for the total transaction valuation.
b. Amendments with Then-Current Total Transaction Valuation Higher than Highest Total Transaction Valuation Previously Reported. For amendments to this schedule that reflect a then-current total transaction valuation higher than the highest total transaction valuation previously reported, provide the required information for the incremental increase.
ii. Fees Previously Paid.
Provide the information Table 1 requires for the line item “Fees Previously Paid” for the prior initial filing or amendment to this schedule that reflected a then-current total transaction valuation that was the highest total transaction valuation previously reported.
B. Other Tabular Information.
Provide the following information in the table for the line items “Fees to Be Paid” and “Fees Previously Paid”, as applicable:
i. The transaction valuation computed pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 0-11;
ii. The fee rate; and
iii. The filing fee due without regard to any previous payments or offsets.
C. Totals.
i. Total Transaction Valuation.
Provide the sum of the transaction valuations for the line items “Fees to Be Paid” and “Fees Previously Paid.”
ii. Total Fees Due for Filing.
Provide the sum of the fees due without regard to any previous payments or offsets for the line items “Fees to Be Paid” and “Fees Previously Paid.”
iii. Total Fees Previously Paid.
Provide the aggregate of filing fees previously paid with this filing.
iv. Total Fee Offsets.
Provide the aggregate of the fee offsets that are claimed in Table 2 pursuant to Instruction 3.
v. Net Fee Due.
Provide the difference between (a) the total fees due for this schedule from the Total Fees Due for Filing row; and (b) the sum of (i) the aggregate of filing fees previously paid from the Total Fees Previously Paid row; and (ii) the aggregate fee offsets claimed from the Total Fee Offsets row.
D. Narrative Disclosure.
Explain how the transaction valuation was determined.
3. Table 2: Fee Offset Claims and Sources.
A. Terminology.
For purposes of this Instruction 3 and Table 2, the term “submission” means any (i) initial filing of, or amendment (pre-effective or post-effective), to a fee-bearing document; or (ii) fee-bearing form of prospectus filed under Rule 424 under the Securities Act (§ 230.424 of this chapter), in all cases that was accompanied by a contemporaneous fee payment. For purposes of these instructions to Table 2, a contemporaneous fee payment is the payment of a required fee that is satisfied through the actual transfer of funds, and
does not include any amount of a required fee satisfied through a claimed fee offset. Instruction 3.B.ii requires a filer that claims a fee offset under Rule 0-11(a)(2) to identify previous submissions with contemporaneous fee payments that are the original source to which the fee offsets claimed on this filing can be traced.
See
Instruction 3.C for an example.
B. Rule 0-11(a)(2).
If relying on Rule 0-11(a)(2) to offset some or all of the filing fee due on this tender offer statement by amounts paid in connection with earlier filings (other than this Schedule TO) relating to the same transaction, provide the following information:
i. Fee Offset Claims.
For each earlier filed Securities Act registration statement or Exchange Act document relating to the same transaction from which a fee offset is being claimed, provide the information that Table 2 requires for the line item “Fee Offset Claims”. The “Fee Offset Claimed” column requires the dollar amount of the previously paid filing fee to be offset against the currently due fee.
Note to Instruction 3.B.i.
If claiming an offset from a Securities Act registration statement, provide a detailed explanation of the basis for the claimed offset.
ii. Fee Offset Sources.
With respect to amounts claimed as an offset under Rule 0-11(a)(2), identify those submissions with contemporaneous fee payments that are the original source to which those amounts can be traced. For each submission identified, provide the information that Table 2 requires for the line item “Fee Offset Sources”. The “Fee Paid with Fee Offset Source” column requires the dollar amount of the contemporaneous fee payment made with respect to each identified submission that is the source of the fee offset claimed pursuant to Rule 0-11(a)(2).
C. Fee Offset Source Submission Identification Example.
A filer:
• Initially files a registration statement on Form S-1 on 1/15/20X1 (assigned file number 333-123456) with a fee payment of $10,000;
• Files pre-effective amendment number 1 to the Form S-1 (333-123456) on 2/15/20X1 with a fee payment of $15,000 and the registration statement goes effective on 2/20/20X1;
• Initially files a registration statement on Form S-1 on 1/15/20X4 (assigned file number 333-123467) with a fee payment of $25,000 and relies on Rule 457(p) to claim an offset of $10,000 related to the unsold securities registered on the previously filed Form S-1 (333-123456) and apply it to the $35,000 filing fee due and the registration statement goes effective on 2/15/20X4.
• Initially files a registration statement related to a tender offer on Form S-4 (assigned file number 333-123478) on 1/15/20X7 with a fee payment of $15,000 and relies on Rule 457(p) to claim an offset of $30,000 related to the unsold securities registered on the most recently effective Form S-1 (333-123467) filed on 1/15/20X4 and apply it to the $45,000 filing fee due.
• Initially files a Schedule TO related to the same tender offer on 1/22/20X7 and relies on Rule 0-11(a)(2) to claim an offset of $45,000 from the fee paid directly and by offset claimed on the Form S-4 (333-123478) filed 1/15/20X7 and apply it to the $45,000 filing fee due.
For the Schedule TO filed on 1/22/20X7, the filer can satisfy the submission identification requirement when it claims the $45,000 fee offset from the Form S-4 (333-123478) filed on 1/15/20X7 by referencing any combination of the Form S-4 (333-123478) filed on 1/15/20X7, the Form S-1 (333-123467) filed on 1/15/20X4, the pre-effective amendment to the Form S-1 (333-123456) filed on 2/15/20X1 or the initial filing of the Form S-1 (333-123456) on 1/15/20X1 in relation to which contemporaneous fee payments were made equal to $45,000.
One example could be:
• The Form S-4 (333-123478) filed on 1/15/20X7 in relation to the payment of $15,000 made with that submission;
• the Form S-1 (333-123467) filed on 1/15/20X4 in relation to the payment of $25,000 made with that submission; and
• the pre-effective amendment to the Form S-1 (333-123456) filed on 2/15/20X1 in relation to the payment of $5,000 out of the payment of $15,000 made with that submission (it would not matter if the filer cited to this pre-effective amendment and/or the initial submission of this Form S-1 (333-123456) on 1/15/20X1 as long as singly or together they were cited as relating to a total of $5,000 in this example).
In this example, the filer could not satisfy the submission identification requirement solely by citing to the Form S-4 (333-123478) filed on 1/15/20X7 because even though the offset claimed and available from that filing was $45,000, the contemporaneous fee payment made with that filing ($15,000) was less than the offset being claimed. As a result, the filer must also identify a prior submission or submissions with an aggregate of contemporaneous fee payment(s) of $30,000 as the original source(s) to which the rest of the claimed offset can be traced.

# Item 13. Information Required by Schedule 13E-3
If the Schedule TO is combined with Schedule 13E-3 (§ 240.13e-100), set forth the information required by Schedule 13E-3 that is not included or covered by the items in Schedule TO.
Signature.
After due inquiry and to the best of my knowledge and belief, I certify that
the information set forth in this statement is true, complete and correct.
(Signature)
(Name and title)
(Date)
Instruction to Signature:
The statement must be signed by the filing person or that person's authorized representative. If the statement is signed on behalf of a person by an authorized representative (other than an executive officer of a corporation or general partner of a partnership), evidence of the representative's authority to sign on behalf of the person must be filed with the statement. The name and any title of each person who signs the statement must be typed or printed beneath the signature. See §§ 240.12b-11 and 240.14d-1(h) with respect to signature requirements.
[64 FR 61462, Nov. 10, 1999, as amended at 72 FR 45112, Aug. 10, 2007; 73 FR 17814, Apr. 1, 2008; 73 FR 60093, Oct. 9, 2008; 76 FR 6046, Feb. 2, 2011; 86 FR 70259, Dec. 9, 2021; 89 FR 14324, Feb. 26, 2024]
§ 240.14d-101
Schedule 14D-9.
Securities and Exchange Commission
Washington, D.C. 20549
Schedule 14D-9
Solicitation/Recommendation Statement under Section 14(d)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(Amendment No. ______)
(Name of Subject Company)
(Names of Persons Filing Statement)
(Title of Class of Securities)
(CUSIP Number of Class of Securities)
(Name, address, and telephone numbers of person authorized to receive notices and communications on behalf of the persons filing statement)
[ ] Check the box if the filing relates solely to preliminary communications made before the commencement of a tender offer.
General Instructions:
A. File eight copies of the statement, including all exhibits, with the Commission if paper filing is permitted.
B. If the filing contains only preliminary communications made before the commencement of a tender offer, no signature is required. The filer need not respond to the items in the schedule. Any pre-commencement communications that are filed under cover of this schedule need not be incorporated by reference into the schedule.
C. If an item is inapplicable or the answer is in the negative, so state. The statement published, sent or given to security holders may omit negative and not applicable responses. If the schedule includes any information that is not published, sent or given to security holders, provide that information or specifically incorporate it by reference under the appropriate item number and heading in the schedule. Do not recite the text of disclosure requirements in the schedule or any document published, sent or given to security holders. Indicate clearly the coverage of the requirements without referring to the text of the items.
D. Information contained in exhibits to the statement may be incorporated by reference in answer or partial answer to any item unless it would render the answer misleading, incomplete, unclear or confusing. A copy of any information that is incorporated by reference or a copy of the pertinent pages of a document containing the information must be submitted with this statement as an exhibit, unless it was previously filed with the Commission electronically on EDGAR. If an exhibit contains information responding to more than one item in the schedule, all information in that exhibit may be incorporated by reference once in response to the several items in the schedule for which it provides an answer. Information incorporated by reference is deemed filed with the Commission for all purposes of the Act.
E. Amendments disclosing a material change in the information set forth in this statement may omit any information previously disclosed in this statement.

# Item 1. Subject Company Information
Furnish the information required by Item 1002(a) and (b) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1002 of this chapter).

# Item 2. Identity and Background of Filing Person
Furnish the information required by Item 1003(a) and (d) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1003 of this chapter).

# Item 3. Past Contacts, Transactions, Negotiations and Agreements
Furnish the information required by Item 1005(d) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1005 of this chapter).

# Item 4. The Solicitation or Recommendation
Furnish the information required by Item 1012(a) through (c) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1012 of this chapter).

# Item 5. Person/Assets, Retained, Employed, Compensated or Used
Furnish the information required by Item 1009(a) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1009 of this chapter).

# Item 6. Interest in Securities of the Subject Company
Furnish the information required by Item 1008(b) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1008 of this chapter).

# Item 7. Purposes of the Transaction and Plans or Proposals
Furnish the information required by Item 1006(d) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1006 of this chapter).

# Item 8. Additional Information
Furnish the information required by Item 1011(b) and (c) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1011 of this chapter).

# Item 9. Exhibits
File as an exhibit to the Schedule all documents specified by Item 1016(a), (e) and (g) of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1016 of this chapter).
Signature.
After due inquiry and to the best of my knowledge and belief, I certify that the information set forth in this statement is true, complete and correct.
(Signature)
(Name and title)
(Date)
Instruction to Signature:
The statement must be signed by the filing person or that person's authorized representative. If the statement is signed on behalf of a person by an authorized representative (other than an executive officer of a corporation or general partner of a partnership), evidence of the representative's authority to sign on behalf of the person must be filed with the statement. The name and any title of each person who signs the statement must be typed or printed beneath the signature. See § 240.14d-1(h) with respect to signature requirements.
[64 FR 61464, Nov. 10, 1999, as amended at 73 FR 17814, Apr. 1, 2008; 76 FR 6046, Feb. 2, 2011]
§ 240.14d-102
Schedule 14D-1F. Tender offer statement pursuant to rule 14d-1(b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

# Securities and Exchange Commission

# Washington, DC

# Schedule 14D-1F

# Tender Offer Statement Pursuant to Rule 14d-1(b) Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

# [Amendment No. ________]
(Name of Subject Company [Issuer])
(Translation of Subject Company's [Issuer's] name into English (if applicable))
(Jurisdiction of Subject Company's [Issuer's] Incorporation or Organization)
(Bidder)
(Title of Class of Securities)
(CUSIP Number of Class of Securities (if applicable))
(Name, address (including zip code) and telephone number (including area code) of person(s) authorized to receive notices and communications on behalf of bidder)
(Date tender offer first published, sent or given to securityholders)

# General Instructions

# I. Eligibility Requirements for Use of Schedule 14D-1F
A. Schedule 14D-1F may be used by any person making a cash tender or exchange offer (the “bidder”) for securities of any issuer incorporated or organized under the laws of Canada or any Canadian province or territory that is a foreign private issuer, where less than 40 percent of the outstanding class of such issuer's securities that is the subject of the offer is held by U.S. holders. The calculation of U.S. holders shall be made as of the end of the subject issuer's last quarter or, if such quarter terminated within 60 days of the filing date, as of the end of such issuer's preceding quarter.

# Instructions
1. For purposes of this Schedule, “foreign private issuer” shall be construed in accordance with Rule 405 under the Securities Act.
2. For purposes of this Schedule, the term “U. S. holder” shall mean any person whose address appears on the records of the issuer, any voting trustee, any depositary, any
share transfer agent or any person acting in a similar capacity on behalf of the issuer as being located in the United States.
3. With respect to any tender offer, including any exchange offer, otherwise eligible to proceed in accordance with Rule 14d-1(b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), the issuer of the subject securities will be presumed to be a foreign private issuer and U. S. holders will be presumed to hold less than 40 percent of such outstanding securities, unless (a) the aggregate trading volume of that class on national securities exchanges in the United States and on NASDAQ exceeded its aggregate trading volume on securities exchanges in Canada and on the Canadian Dealing Network, Inc. (“CDN”) over the 12 calendar month period prior to commencement of this offer, or if commenced in response to a prior offer, over the 12 calendar month period prior to commencement of the initial offer (based on volume figures published by such exchanges and NASDAQ and CDN) ; (b) the most recent annual report or annual information form filed or submitted by the issuer with securities regulators of Ontario, Quebec, British Columbia or Alberta (or, if the issuer of the subject securities is not a reporting issuer in any of such provinces, with any other Canadian securities regulator) or with the Commission indicates that U. S. holders hold 40 percent or more of the subject class of securities; or (c) the offeror has actual knowledge that the level of U. S. ownership equals or exceeds 40 percent of such securities.
4. If this Schedule is filed during the pendency of one or more ongoing cash tender or exchange offers for securities of the class subject to this offer that was commenced or was eligible to be commenced on Schedule 13E-4F, Schedule 14D-1F and/or Form F-8 or Form F-80, the date for calculation of U. S. ownership for purposes of this Schedule shall be the same as that date used by the initial bidder or issuer.
5. For purposes of this Schedule, the class of subject securities shall not include any securities that may be converted into or are exchangeable for the subject securities.
B. Any bidder using this Schedule must extend the cash tender or exchange offer to U. S. holders of securities of the subject company upon terms and conditions not less favorable than those extended to any other holder of such securities, and must comply with the requirements of any Canadian federal, provincial and/or territorial law, regulation or policy relating to the terms and conditions of the offer.
C. This Schedule shall not be used if the subject company is an investment company registered or required to be registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
D. This Schedule shall not be used to comply with the reporting requirements of section 13(d) of the Exchange Act. Persons using this Schedule are reminded of their obligation to file or update a Schedule 13D where required by section 13(d)(1) of the Exchange Act and the Commission's rules and regulations thereunder.

# II. Filing Instructions and Fee
A.(1) The bidder must file this Schedule and any amendment to the Schedule (see Part I, Item 1.(b)), including all exhibits and other documents filed as part of the Schedule or amendment, in electronic format via the Commission's Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) system in accordance with the EDGAR rules set forth in Regulation S-T (17 CFR Part 232). For assistance with technical questions about EDGAR or to request an access code, call the EDGAR Filer Support Office at (202) 551-8900. For assistance with the EDGAR rules, call the Office of EDGAR and Information Analysis at (202) 551-3610.
(2) If filing the Schedule in paper under a hardship exemption in 17 CFR 232.201 or 232.202 of Regulation S-T, or as otherwise permitted, the bidder must file with the Commission at its principal office five copies of the complete Schedule and any amendment, including exhibits and all other documents filed as a part of the Schedule or amendment. The bidder must bind, staple or otherwise compile each copy in one or more parts without stiff covers. The bidder must further bind the Schedule or amendment on the side or stitching margin in a manner that leaves the reading matter legible. The bidder must provide three additional copies of the Schedule or amendment without exhibits to the Commission.
B. An electronic filer must provide the signatures required for the Schedule or amendment in accordance with 17 CFR 232.302 of Regulation S-T. A bidder filing in paper must have the original and at least one copy of the Schedule and any amendment signed in accordance with Exchange Act Rule 12b-11(d) (17 CFR 12b-11(d)) by the persons whose signatures are required for this Schedule or amendment. The bidder must also conform the unsigned copies.
C. At the time of filing this Schedule with the Commission, the bidder shall pay to the Commission in accordance with Rule 0-11 of the Exchange Act, a fee in U. S. dollars in the amount prescribed by section 14(g)(3) of the Exchange Act. See also Rule 0-9 under the Exchange Act.
(1) Where the bidder is offering securities or other non-cash consideration for some or all of the securities to be acquired, whether or not in combination with a cash payment for the same securities, the value of the consideration shall be based on the market value of the securities to be received by the bidder as established by paragraph 3 of this section.
(2) If there is no market for the securities to be acquired by the bidder, the book value of such securities computed as of the latest practicable date prior to the date of filing the Schedule shall be used, unless the issuer of such securities is in bankruptcy or receivership or has an accumulated capital deficit, in which case one-third of the principal amount, par value or stated value of such securities shall be used.
(3) When the fee is based upon the market value of the securities, such market value shall be calculated upon the basis of either the average of the high and low prices reported in the consolidated reporting system (for exchange traded securities and last sale reported for over-the-counter securities) or the average of the bid and asked price (for other over-the-counter securities) as of a specified date within five business days prior to the date of filing the Schedule.
D. If at any time after the initial payment of the fee the aggregate consideration offered is increased, an additional filing fee based upon such increase shall be paid with the required amended filing.
E. The bidder must file the Schedule or amendment in electronic format in the English language in accordance with 17 CFR 232.306 of Regulation S-T. The bidder may file part of the Schedule or amendment, or exhibit or other attachment to the Schedule or amendment, in both French and English if the bidder included the French text to comply with the requirements of the Canadian securities administrator or other Canadian authority and, for an electronic filing, if the filing is an HTML document, as defined in 17 CFR 232.11 of Regulation S-T. For both an electronic filing and a paper filing, the bidder may provide an English translation or English summary of a foreign language document as an exhibit or other attachment to the Schedule or amendment as permitted by the rules of the applicable Canadian securities administrator.
F. A paper filer must number sequentially the signed original of the Schedule or amendment (in addition to any internal numbering that otherwise may be present) by handwritten, typed, printed or other legible form of notation from the first page through the last page of the Schedule or amendment, including any exhibits or attachments. A paper filer must disclose the total number of pages on the first page of the sequentially numbered Schedule or amendment.

# III. Compliance With the Exchange Act
A. Pursuant to Rule 14d-1(b) under the Exchange Act, the bidder shall be deemed to comply with the requirements of sections 14(d)(1) through 14(d)(7) of the Exchange Act, Regulation 14D under the Exchange Act and Schedule TO thereunder, and Rule 14e-1 under Regulation 14E of the Exchange Act, in connection with a cash tender or exchange offer for securities that may be made pursuant to this Schedule;
provided that,
if an exemption has been granted from requirements of Canadian federal, provincial, and/or territorial laws, regulations or policies, and the tender offer does not comply with requirements that otherwise would be prescribed by Regulation 14D or 14E, the bidder (absent an order from the Commission) shall comply with the provisions of sections 14(d)(1) through 14(d)(7) of the Exchange Act, Regulation 14D and Schedule TO thereunder, and Rule 14e-1 under Regulation 14E.
B. Any cash tender or exchange offer made pursuant to this Schedule is not exempt from the antifraud provisions of section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and section 14(e) of the Exchange Act and Rule 14e-3 thereunder, and this Schedule shall be deemed “filed” for purposes of section 18 of the Exchange Act.
C. The bidder's attention is directed to Regulation M (§§ 242.100 through 242.105 of this chapter) in the case of an exchange offer, and to Rule 14e-5 under the Exchange Act (§ 240.14e-5) for any exchange or cash tender offer. [
See
Exchange Act Release No. 29355 (June 21, 1991) containing an exemption from Rule 10b-13, the predecessor to Rule 14e-5.]

# PART I—INFORMATION REQUIRED TO BE SENT TO SHAREHOLDERS

# Item 1. Home Jurisdiction Documents
(a) This Schedule shall be accompanied by the entire disclosure document or documents required to be delivered to holders of securities to be acquired in the proposed transaction by the bidder pursuant to the laws, regulations or policies of Canada and/or any of its provinces or territories governing the conduct of the tender offer. It shall not include any documents incorporated by reference into such disclosure document(s) and not distributed to offerees pursuant to any such law, regulation or policy.
(b) Any amendment made by the bidder to a home jurisdiction document or documents shall be filed with the Commission under cover of this Schedule, which must indicate on the cover page the number of the amendment.
(c) In an exchange offer where securities of the bidder have been or are to be offered or cancelled in the transaction, such securities shall be registered on forms promulgated by the Commission under the Securities Act of 1933 including, where available, the Commission's Form F-8 or F-80 providing for inclusion in that registration statement of the home jurisdiction prospectus.

# Item 2. Informational Legends
The following legends, to the extent applicable, shall appear on the outside front cover
page of the home-jurisdiction document(s) in bold-face roman type at least as high as ten-point modern type and at least two points leaded:
“This tender offer is made for the securities of a foreign issuer and while the offer is subject to disclosure requirements of the country in which the subject company is incorporated or organized, investors should be aware that these requirements are different from those of the United States. Financial statements included herein, if any, have been prepared in accordance with foreign generally accepted accounting principles and thus may not be comparable to financial statements of United States companies.
“The enforcement by investors of civil liabilities under the federal securities laws may be affected adversely by the fact that the subject company is located in a foreign country, and that some or all of its officers and directors are residents of a foreign country.
“Investors should be aware that the bidder or its affiliates, directly or indirectly, may bid for or make purchases of the issuer's securities subject to the offer, or of the issuer's related securities, during the period of the tender offer, as permitted by applicable Canadian laws or provincial laws or regulations. ”
In the case of an exchange offer:
“Investors should be aware that the bidder or its affiliates, directly or indirectly, may bid for or make purchases of the issuer's securities subject to the offer or of the issuer's related securities, or of the bidder's securities to be distributed or of the bidder's related securities, during the period of the tender offer, as permitted by applicable Canadian laws or provincial laws or regulations. ”

# Note to Item 2.
If the home-jurisdiction document(s) are delivered through an electronic medium, the issuer may satisfy the legibility requirements for the required legends relating to type size and font by presenting the legend in any manner reasonably calculated to draw security holder attention to it.

# PART II—INFORMATION NOT REQUIRED TO BE SENT TO SHAREHOLDERS
The exhibits specified below shall be filed as part of the Schedule, but are not required to be sent to shareholders unless so required pursuant to the laws, regulations or policies of Canada and/or any of its provinces or territories. Exhibits shall be appropriately lettered or numbered for convenient reference.
(1) File any reports or information that, in accordance with the requirements of the home jurisdiction(s), must be made publicly available by the bidder in connection with the transaction but need not be disseminated to shareholders.
(2) File copies of any documents incorporated by reference into the home jurisdiction document(s).
(3) If any name is signed to this Schedule pursuant to power of attorney, manually signed copies of any such power of attorney shall be filed. If the name of any officer signing on behalf of the bidder is signed pursuant to a power of attorney, certified copies of the bidder's board of directors authorizing such signature also shall be filed.
(4) File the following information: The transaction valuation, fee rate, amount of filing fee and, as applicable, information relating to reliance on § 240.0-11(a)(2) in the tabular form indicated.

# Calculation of Filing Fee Tables
Table 1—Transaction Valuation
Transaction valuation
Fee rate
Amount of
filing fee
Fees to Be Paid
X
X
X
Fees Previously Paid
X
X
Total Transaction Valuation
X
Total Fees Due for Filing
X
Total Fees Previously Paid
X
Total Fee Offsets
X
Net Fee Due
X
Table 2—Fee Offset Claims and Sources
Registrant or filer name
Form or
filing type
File number
Initial filing date
Filing date
Fee offset claimed
Fee paid with fee
offset source
Fee Offset Claims
X
X
X
X
Fee Offset Sources
X
X
X
X
X
Instructions to the Calculation of Filing Fee Tables and Related Disclosure (“Instructions”):
1. General Requirements.
A. Applicable Table Requirements.
The “X” designation indicates the information required to be disclosed, as applicable, in tabular format. Add as many rows of each table as necessary.
B. Fee Rate.
For the current fee rate,
see https://www.sec.gov/ofm/Article/feeamt.html.
C. Additional Filing Fee Provisions.
See
General Instructions II.C and D for additional provisions regarding filing fees.
D. Explanations.
If not otherwise explained in response to these instructions, disclose specific details relating to the fee calculation as necessary to clarify the information presented in each table, including references to the applicable provisions of Rule 0-11 (§ 240.0-11 of this chapter). All disclosure these Instructions require that is not specifically required to be presented in tabular format must appear in narrative format immediately after the table(s) to which it corresponds.
E. Submission Method.
A filing fee exhibit required to be provided pursuant to this paragraph (4) under “Part II—Information Not Required To Be Sent To Shareholders” must be submitted as required by Rule 408 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.408 of this chapter).
2. Table 1: Transaction Valuation Table and Related Disclosure.
A. Fees to Be Paid and Fees Previously Paid.
i. Fees to Be Paid.
Provide the information Table 1 requires for the line item “Fees to Be Paid” as follows:
a. Initial Filings.
For an initial filing on this schedule, provide the required information for the total transaction valuation.
b. Amendments with Then-Current Total Transaction Valuation Higher than Highest Total Transaction Valuation Previously Reported. For amendments to this schedule that reflect a then-current total transaction valuation higher than the highest total transaction valuation previously reported, provide the required information for the incremental increase.
ii. Fees Previously Paid.
Provide the information Table 1 requires for the line item “Fees Previously Paid” for the prior initial filing or amendment to this schedule that reflected a then-current total transaction valuation that was the highest total transaction valuation previously reported.
B. Other Tabular Information.
Provide the following information in the table for the line items “Fees to be Paid” and “Fees Previously Paid”:
i. The transaction valuation computed pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 0-11;
ii. The fee rate; and
iii. The filing fee due without regard to any previous payments or offsets.
C. Totals.
i. Total Transaction Valuation.
Provide the sum of the transaction valuations for the line items “Fees to be Paid” and “Fees Previously Paid.”
ii. Total Fees Due for Filing.
Provide the sum of the fees due without regard to any previous payments or offsets for the line items “Fees to be Paid” and “Fees Previously Paid.”
iii. Total Fees Previously Paid.
Provide the aggregate of filing fees previously paid with this filing.
iv. Total Fee Offsets.
Provide the aggregate of the fee offsets that are claimed in Table 2 pursuant to Instruction 3.
v. Net Fee Due.
Provide the difference between (a) the total fees due for this schedule from the Total Fees Due for Filing row; and (b) the sum of (i) the aggregate of filing fees previously paid from the Total Fees Previously Paid row; and (ii) the aggregate fee offsets claimed from the Total Fee Offsets row.
D. Narrative Disclosure.
Explain how the transaction valuation was determined.
3. Table 2: Fee Offset Claims and Sources.
A. Terminology.
For purposes of this Instruction 3 and Table 2, the term “submission” means any (i) initial filing of, or amendment (pre-effective or post-effective), to a fee-bearing document; or (ii) fee-bearing form of prospectus filed under Rule 424 under the Securities Act (§ 230.424 of this chapter), in all cases that
was accompanied by a contemporaneous fee payment. For purposes of these instructions to Table 2, a contemporaneous fee payment is the payment of a required fee that is satisfied through the actual transfer of funds, and does not include any amount of a required fee satisfied through a claimed fee offset. Instruction 3.B.ii requires a filer that claims a fee offset under Rule 0-11(a)(2) to identify previous submissions with contemporaneous fee payments that are the original source to which the fee offsets claimed on this filing can be traced.
See
Instruction 3.C for an example.
B. Rule 0-11(a)(2).
If relying on Rule 0-11(a)(2) to offset some or all of the filing fee due on this tender offer statement by amounts paid in connection with earlier filings (other than this Schedule 14D-1F) relating to the same transaction, provide the following information:
i. Fee Offset Claims.
For each earlier filed Securities Act registration statement or Exchange Act document relating to the same transaction from which a fee offset is being claimed, provide the information that Table 2 requires for the line item “Fee Offset Claims”. The “Fee Offset Claimed” column requires the dollar amount of the previously paid filing fee to be offset against the currently due fee.
Note to Instruction 3.B.i.
If claiming an offset from a Securities Act registration statement, provide a detailed explanation of the basis for the claimed offset.
ii. Fee Offset Sources.
With respect to amounts claimed as an offset under Rule 0-11(a)(2), identify those submissions with contemporaneous fee payments that are the original source to which those amounts can be traced. For each submission identified, provide the information that Table 2 requires for the line item “Fee Offset Sources”. The “Fee Paid with Fee Offset Source” column requires the dollar amount of the contemporaneous fee payment made with respect to each identified submission that is the source of the fee offset claimed pursuant to Rule 0-11(a)(2).
C. Fee Offset Source Submission Identification Example.
A filer:
• Initially files a registration statement on Form S-1 on 1/15/20X1 (assigned file number 333-123456) with a fee payment of $10,000;
• Files pre-effective amendment number 1 to the Form S-1 (333-123456) on 2/15/20X1 with a fee payment of $15,000 and the registration statement goes effective on 2/20/20X1;
• Initially files a registration statement on Form S-1 on 1/15/20X4 (assigned file number 333-123467) with a fee payment of $25,000 and relies on Rule 457(p) to claim an offset of $10,000 related to the unsold securities registered on the previously filed Form S-1 (333-123456) and apply it to the $35,000 filing fee due and the registration statement goes effective on 2/15/20X4.
• Initially files a registration statement related to a tender offer on Form S-4 (assigned file number 333-123478) on 1/15/20X7 with a fee payment of $15,000 and relies on Rule 457(p) to claim an offset of $30,000 related to the unsold securities registered on the most recently effective Form S-1 (333-123467) filed on 1/15/20X4 and apply it to the $45,000 filing fee due.
• Initially files a Schedule TO related to the same tender offer on 1/22/20X7 and relies on Rule 0-11(a)(2) to claim an offset of $45,000 from the fee paid directly and by offset claimed on the Form S-4 (333-123478) filed 1/15/20X7 and apply it to the $45,000 filing fee due.
For the Schedule TO filed on 1/22/20X7, the filer can satisfy the submission identification requirement when it claims the $45,000 fee offset from the Form S-4 (333-123478) filed on 1/15/20X7 by referencing any combination of the Form S-4 (333-123478) filed on 1/15/20X7, the Form S-1 (333-123467) filed on 1/15/20X4, the pre-effective amendment to the Form S-1 (333-123456) filed on 2/15/20X1 or the initial filing of the Form S-1 (333-123456) on 1/15/20X1 in relation to which contemporaneous fee payments were made equal to $45,000.
One example could be:
• the Form S-4 (333-123478) filed on 1/15/20X7 in relation to the payment of $15,000 made with that submission;
• the Form S-1 (333-123467) filed on 1/15/20X4 in relation to the payment of $25,000 made with that submission; and
• the pre-effective amendment to the Form S-1 (333-123456) filed on 2/15/20X1 in relation to the payment of $5,000 out of the payment of $15,000 made with that submission (it would not matter if the filer cited to this pre-effective amendment and/or the initial submission of this Form S-1 (333-123456) on 1/15/20X1 as long as singly or together they were cited as relating to a total of $5,000 in this example).
In this example, the filer could not satisfy the submission identification requirement solely by citing to the Form S-4 (333-123478) filed on 1/15/20X7 because even though the offset claimed and available from that filing was $45,000, the contemporaneous fee payment made with that filing ($15,000) was less than the offset being claimed. As a result, the filer must also identify a prior submission or submissions with an aggregate of contemporaneous fee payment(s) of $30,000 as the original source(s) to which the rest of the claimed offset can be traced.

# PART III—UNDERTAKINGS AND CONSENT TO SERVICE OF PROCESS
1.
Undertakings
The Schedule shall set forth the following undertakings of the bidder:
a. The bidder undertakes to make available, in person or by telephone, representatives to respond to inquiries made by the Commission staff, and to furnish promptly, when requested to do so by the Commission staff, information relating to this Schedule or to transactions in said securities.
b. The bidder undertakes to disclose in the United States, on the same basis as it is required to make such disclosure pursuant to applicable Canadian federal and/or provincial or territorial laws, regulations or policies, or otherwise discloses, information regarding purchases of the issuer's securities in connection with the cash tender or exchange offer covered by this Schedule. Such information shall be set forth in amendments to this Schedule.
c. In the case of an exchange offer:
The bidder undertakes to disclose in the United States, on the same basis as it is required to make such disclosure pursuant to any applicable Canadian federal and/or provincial or territorial law, regulation or policy, or otherwise discloses, information regarding purchases of the issuer's or bidder's securities in connection with the offer.
2.
Consent to Service of Process
(a) At the time of filing this Schedule, the bidder (if a non-U. S. person) shall file with the Commission a written irrevocable consent and power of attorney on Form F-X.
(b) Any change to the name or address of a registrant's agent for service shall be communicated promptly to the Commission by amendment to Form F-X referencing the file number of the registrant.

# PART IV—SIGNATURES
A. The Schedule shall be signed by each person on whose behalf the Schedule is filed or its authorized representative. If the Schedule is signed on behalf of a person by his authorized representative (other than an executive officer or general partner of the bidder), evidence of the representative's authority shall be filed with the Schedule.
B. The name and any title of each person who signs the Schedule shall be typed or printed beneath his signature.
C. By signing this Schedule, the bidder consents without power of revocation that any administrative subpoena may be served, or any administrative proceeding, civil suit or civil action where the cause of action arises out of or relates to or concerns any offering made or purported to be made in connection with the filing on Schedule 14D-1F or any purchases or sales of any security in connection therewith, may be commenced against it in any administrative tribunal or in any appropriate court in any place subject to the jurisdiction of any state or of the United States by service of said subpoena or process upon the registrant's designated agent.
After due inquiry and to the best of my knowledge and belief, I certify that the information set forth in this statement is true, complete and correct.
(Signature)
(Name and Title)
(Date)
[56 FR 30071, July 1, 1991; 57 FR 10615, Mar. 27, 1992, as amended at 61 FR 24657, May 15, 1996; 62 FR 544, Jan. 3, 1997; 67 FR 36705, May 24, 2002; 73 FR 17814, Apr. 1, 2008; 86 FR 70260, Dec. 9, 2021]
§ 240.14d-103
Schedule 14D-9F. Solicitation/recommendation statement pursuant to section 14(d)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and rules 14d-1(b) and 14e-2(c) thereunder.
Securities and Exchange Commission Washington, DC 20549
Schedule 14D-9F
Solicitation/Recommendation Statement Pursuant to Section 14(d)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rules 14d-1(b) and 14e-2(c) Thereunder
[Amendment No. ____]
(Name of Subject Company [Issuer])
(Translation of Subject Company's [Issuer's] Name into English (if applicable))
(Jurisdiction of Subject Company's [Issuer's] Incorporation or Organization)
(Name(s) of Person(s) Filing Statement)
(Title of Class of Securities)
(CUSIP Number of Class of Securities (if applicable))
(Name, address (including zip code) and telephone number (including area code) of person(s) authorized to receive notices and communications on behalf of the person(s) filing statement)

# General Instructions

# I. Eligibility Requirements for Use of Schedule 14D-9F
A. Schedule 14D-9F is used by any issuer incorporated or organized under the laws of Canada or any Canadian province or territory that is a foreign private issuer (the “subject company”) , or by any director or officer of such issuer, where the issuer is the subject of a cash tender or exchange offer for a class of its securities filed on Schedule 14D-1F.
For purposes of this Schedule, “foreign private issuer” shall be construed in accordance with Rule 405 under the Securities Act.
B. Any person(s) using this Schedule must comply with the requirements of any Canadian federal, provincial and/or territorial law, regulation or policy relating to a recommendation by the subject issuer's board of directors, or any director or officer thereof, with respect to the offer.

# II. Filing Instructions
A.(1) The subject issuer must file this Schedule and any amendment to the Schedule (see Part I, Item 1.(b)), including all exhibits and other documents filed as part of the Schedule or amendment, in electronic format via the Commission's Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) system in accordance with the EDGAR rules set forth in Regulation S-T (17 CFR Part 232). For assistance with technical questions about EDGAR or to request an access code, call the EDGAR Filer Support Office at (202) 551-8900. For assistance with the EDGAR rules, call the Office of EDGAR and Information Analysis at (202) 551-3610.
(2) If filing the Schedule in paper under a hardship exemption in 17 CFR 232.201 or 232.202 of Regulation S-T, or as otherwise permitted, the subject issuer must file with the Commission at its principal office five copies of the complete Schedule and any amendment, including exhibits and all other documents filed as a part of the Schedule or amendment. The subject issuer must bind, staple or otherwise compile each copy in one or more parts without stiff covers. The subject issuer must further bind the Schedule or amendment on the side or stitching margin in a manner that leaves the reading matter legible. The subject issuer must provide three additional copies of the Schedule or amendment without exhibits to the Commission.
B. An electronic filer must provide the signatures required for the Schedule or amendment in accordance with 17 CFR 232.302 of Regulation S-T. A subject issuer filing in paper must have the original and at least one copy of the Schedule and any amendment signed in accordance with Exchange Act Rule 12b-11(d) (17 CFR 12b-11(d)) by the persons whose signatures are required for this Schedule or amendment. The subject issuer must also conform the unsigned copies.
C. The subject issuer must file the Schedule or amendment in electronic format in the English language in accordance with 17 CFR 232.306 of Regulation S-T. The subject issuer may file part of the Schedule or amendment, or exhibit or other attachment to the Schedule or amendment, in both French and English if the bidder included the French text to comply with the requirements of the Canadian securities administrator or other Canadian authority and, for an electronic filing, if the filing is an HTML document, as defined in 17 CFR 232.11 of Regulation S-T. For both an electronic filing and a paper filing, the subject issuer may provide an English translation or English summary of a foreign language document as an exhibit or other attachment to the Schedule or amendment as permitted by the rules of the applicable Canadian securities administrator.
D. A paper filer must number sequentially the signed original of the Schedule or amendment (in addition to any internal numbering that otherwise may be present) by handwritten, typed, printed or other legible form of notation from the first page through the last page of the Schedule or amendment, including any exhibits or attachments. A paper filer must disclose the total number of pages on the first page of the sequentially numbered Schedule or amendment.

# III. Compliance with the Exchange Act
A. Pursuant to Rule 14e-2(c) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), this Schedule shall be filed by an issuer, a class of the securities of which is the subject of a cash tender or exchange offer filed on Schedule 14D-1F, and may be filed by any director or officer of such issuer.
B. Any recommendation with respect to a cash tender or exchange offer for a class of securities of the subject company made pursuant to this Schedule is not exempt from the antifraud provisions of section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder and section 14(e) of the Exchange Act and Rule 14e-3 thereunder, and this Schedule shall be deemed “filed” with the Commission for purposes of section 18 of the Exchange Act.

# Part I—Information Required To Be Sent to Shareholders

# Item 1. Home Jurisdiction Documents
(a) This Schedule shall be accompanied by the entire disclosure document or documents required to be delivered to holders of securities to be acquired in the proposed transaction pursuant to the laws, regulations or policies of Canada and/or any of its provinces or territories governing the conduct of the offer. It shall not include any documents incorporated by reference into such disclosure document(s) and not distributed to offerees pursuant to any such law, regulation or policy.
(b) Any amendment made to a home jurisdiction document or documents shall be filed with the Commission under cover of this Schedule, which must indicate on the cover page the number of the amendment.

# Item 2. Informational Legends
The following legends, to the extent applicable, shall appear on the outside front cover page of the home jurisdiction document(s) in bold-face roman type at least as high as ten-point modern type and at least two points leaded:
“This tender offer is made for the securities of a foreign issuer and while the offer is subject to disclosure requirements of the country in which the subject issuer is incorporated or organized, investors should be aware that these requirements are different from those of the United States. Financial statements included herein, if any, have been prepared in accordance with foreign generally accepted accounting principles and thus may not be comparable to financial statements of United States companies.
“The enforcement by investors of civil liabilities under the federal securities laws may be affected adversely by the fact that the issuer is located in a foreign country, and that some or all of its officers and directors are residents of a foreign country.”

# Note to Item 2.
If the home jurisdiction document(s) are delivered through an electronic medium, the issuer may satisfy the legibility requirements for the required legends relating to type size and font by presenting the legend in any manner reasonably calculated to draw security holder attention to it.

# Part II—Information Not Required To Be Sent to Shareholders
The exhibits specified below shall be filed as part of the Schedule, but are not required to be sent to shareholders unless so required pursuant to the laws, or regulations or policies of Canada and/or any of its provinces or territories. Exhibits shall be appropriately lettered or numbered for convenient reference.
(1) File any reports or information that, in accordance with the requirements of the home jurisdiction(s), must be made publicly available by the person(s) filing this Schedule in connection with the transaction, but need not be disseminated to shareholders.
(2) File copies of any documents incorporated by reference into the home jurisdiction document(s) .
(3) If any name is signed to the Schedule pursuant to power of attorney, manually signed copies of any such power of attorney shall be filed. If the name of any officer signing on behalf of the issuer is signed pursuant to a power of attorney, certified copies of a resolution of the issuer's board of directors authorizing such signature also shall be filed.

# Part III—Undertaking and Consent to Service of Process
1.
Undertaking
The Schedule shall set forth the following undertaking of the person filing it:
The person(s) filing this Schedule undertakes to make available, in person or by telephone, representatives to respond to inquiries made by the Commission staff, and to furnish promptly, when requested to do so by the Commission staff, information relating to this Schedule or to transactions in said securities.
2.
Consent to Service of Process.
(a) At the time of filing this Schedule, the person(s) (if a non-U. S. person) so filing shall file with the Commission a written irrevocable consent and power of attorney on Form F-X.
(b) Any change to the name or address of a registrant's agent for service shall be communicated promptly to the Commission by amendment to Form F-X referencing the file number of the registrant.

# Part IV—Signatures
A. The Schedule shall be signed by each person on whose behalf the Schedule is filed or its authorized representative. If the Schedule is signed on behalf of a person by his authorized representative (other than an executive officer or general partner of the subject company), evidence of the representative's authority shall be filed with the Schedule.
B. The name and any title of each person who signs the Schedule shall be typed or printed beneath his signature.
C. By signing this Schedule, the persons signing consent without power of revocation that any administrative subpoena may be served, or any administrative proceeding, civil suit or civil action where the cause of action arises out of or relates to or concerns any offering made or purported to be made in connection with filing on this Schedule 14D-9F or any purchases or sales of any security in connection therewith, may be commenced against them in any administrative tribunal or in any appropriate court in any place subject to the jurisdiction of any state or of the United States by service of said subpoena or process upon the registrant's designated agent.
After due inquiry and to the best of my knowledge and belief, I certify that the information set forth in this statement is true, complete and correct.
(Signature)
(Name and Title)
(Date)
[56 FR 30073, July 1, 1991, as amended at 61 FR 24657, May 15, 1996; 67 FR 36706, May 24, 2002; 73 FR 17814, Apr. 1, 2008]

# Regulation 14E

# Note:
For the scope of and definitions applicable to Regulation 14E, refer to § 240.14d-1.
§ 240.14e-1
Unlawful tender offer practices.
As a means reasonably designed to prevent fraudulent, deceptive or manipulative acts or practices within the meaning of section 14(e) of the Act, no person who makes a tender offer shall:
(a) Hold such tender offer open for less than twenty business days from the date such tender offer is first published or sent to security holders; provided, however, that if the tender offer involves a roll-up transaction as defined in Item 901(c) of Regulation S-K (17 CFR 229.901(c)) and the securities being offered are registered (or authorized to be registered) on Form S-4 (17 CFR 229.25) or Form F-4 (17 CFR 229.34), the offer shall not be open for less than sixty calendar days from the date the tender offer is first published or sent to security holders;
(b) Increase or decrease the percentage of the class of securities being sought or the consideration offered or the dealer's soliciting fee to be given in a tender offer unless such tender offer remains open for at least ten business days from the date that notice of such increase or decrease is first published or sent or given to security holders.
Provided, however,
That, for purposes of this paragraph, the acceptance for payment of an additional amount of securities not to exceed two percent of the class of securities that is the subject of the tender offer shall not be deemed to be an increase. For purposes of this paragraph, the percentage of a class of securities shall be calculated in accordance with section 14(d)(3) of the Act.
(c) Fail to pay the consideration offered or return the securities deposited by or on behalf of security holders promptly after the termination or withdrawal of a tender offer. This paragraph does not prohibit a bidder electing to offer a subsequent offering period under § 240.14d-11 from paying for securities during the subsequent offering period in accordance with that section.
(d) Extend the length of a tender offer without issuing a notice of such extension by press release or other public announcement, which notice shall include disclosure of the approximate number of securities deposited to date and shall be issued no later than the earlier of: (i) 9:00 a.m. Eastern time, on the next business day after the scheduled expiration date of the offer or (ii), if the class of securities which is the subject of the tender offer is registered on one or more national securities exchanges, the first opening of any one of such exchanges on the next business day after the scheduled expiration date of the offer.
(e) The periods of time required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be tolled for any period during which the bidder has failed to file in electronic format, absent a hardship exemption (§§ 232.201 and 232.202 of this chapter), the Schedule TO Tender Offer Statement (§ 240.14d-100), any tender offer material required to be filed by Item 12 of that Schedule pursuant to paragraph (a) of Item 1016 of Regulation M-A (§ 229.1016(a) of this chapter), and any amendments thereto. If such documents were filed in paper pursuant to a hardship exemption (
see
§ 232.201 and § 232.202(d)), the minimum offering periods shall be tolled for any period during which a required confirming electronic copy of such Schedule and tender offer material is delinquent.
[44 FR 70348, Dec. 6, 1979, as amended at 51 FR 3035, Jan. 23, 1986; 51 FR 25883, July 17, 1986; 51 FR 32630, Sept. 15, 1986; 56 FR 57255, Nov. 8, 1991; 58 FR 14682, 14685, Mar. 18, 1993; 59 FR 67765, Dec. 30, 1994; 62 FR 36459, July 8, 1997; 64 FR 61465, Nov. 10, 1999; 73 FR 17814, Apr. 1, 2008]
§ 240.14e-2
Position of subject company with respect to a tender offer.
(a)
Position of subject company.
As a means reasonably designed to prevent fraudulent, deceptive or manipulative acts or practices withing the meaning of section 14(e) of the Act, the subject company, no later than 10 business days from the date the tender offer is first published or sent or given, shall publish, send or give to security holders a statement disclosing that the subject company:
(1) Recommends acceptance or rejection of the bidder's tender offer;
(2) Expresses no opinion and is remaining neutral toward the bidder's tender offer; or
(3) Is unable to take a position with respect to the bidder's tender offer. Such statement shall also include the reason(s) for the position (including the inability to take a position) disclosed therein.
(b)
Material change.
If any material change occurs in the disclosure required by paragraph (a) of this section, the subject company shall promptly publish or send or give a statement disclosing such material change to security holders.
(c) Any issuer, a class of the securities of which is the subject of a tender offer filed with the Commission on Schedule 14D-1F and conducted in reliance upon and in conformity with Rule 14d-1(b) under the Act, and any director or officer of such issuer where so required by the laws, regulations and policies of Canada and/or any of its provinces or territories, in lieu of the statements called for by paragraph (a) of this section and Rule 14d-9 under the Act, shall file with the Commission on Schedule 14D-9F the entire disclosure document(s) required to be furnished to holders of securities of the subject issuer by the laws, regulations and policies of Canada and/or any of its provinces or territories governing the conduct of the tender offer, and shall disseminate such document(s) in the United States in accordance with such laws, regulations and policies.
(d)
Exemption for cross-border tender offers.
The subject company shall be exempt from this section with respect to a tender offer conducted under § 240.14d-1(c).
[44 FR 70348, Dec. 6, 1979, as amended at 56 FR 30075, July 1, 1991; 64 FR 61406, Nov. 10, 1999]
§ 240.14e-3
Transactions in securities on the basis of material, nonpublic information in the context of tender offers.
(a) If any person has taken a substantial step or steps to commence, or has commenced, a tender offer (the “offering person”), it shall constitute a fraudulent, deceptive or manipulative act or practice within the meaning of section 14(e) of the Act for any other person who is in possession of material information relating to such tender offer which information he knows or has reason to know is nonpublic and which he knows or has reason to know has been acquired directly or indirectly from:
(1) The offering person,
(2) The issuer of the securities sought or to be sought by such tender offer, or
(3) Any officer, director, partner or employee or any other person acting on behalf of the offering person or such issuer, to purchase or sell or cause to be purchased or sold any of such securities or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for any such securities or any option or right to obtain or to dispose of any of the foregoing securities, unless within a reasonable time prior to any purchase or sale such information and its source are publicly disclosed by press release or otherwise.
(b) A person other than a natural person shall not violate paragraph (a) of this section if such person shows that:
(1) The individual(s) making the investment decision on behalf of such person to purchase or sell any security described in paragraph (a) of this section or to cause any such security to be purchased or sold by or on behalf of others did not know the material, nonpublic information; and
(2) Such person had implemented one or a combination of policies and procedures, reasonable under the circumstances, taking into consideration the nature of the person's business, to ensure that individual(s) making investment decision(s) would not violate paragraph (a) of this section, which policies and procedures may include, but are not limited to, (i) those which restrict any purchase, sale and causing any purchase and sale of any such security or (ii) those which prevent such individual(s) from knowing such information.
(c) Notwithstanding anything in paragraph (a) of this section to contrary, the following transactions shall not be violations of paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) Purchase(s) of any security described in paragraph (a) of this section by a broker or by another agent on behalf of an offering person; or
(2) Sale(s) by any person of any security described in paragraph (a) of this section to the offering person.
(d)(1) As a means reasonably designed to prevent fraudulent, deceptive or manipulative acts or practices within the meaning of section 14(e) of the Act, it shall be unlawful for any person described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section to communicate material, nonpublic information relating to a tender offer to any other person under circumstances in which it is reasonably foreseeable that such communication is likely to result in a violation of this section
except
that this paragraph shall not apply to a communication made in good faith,
(i) To the officers, directors, partners or employees of the offering person, to its advisors or to other persons, involved in the planning, financing, preparation or execution of such tender offer;
(ii) To the issuer whose securities are sought or to be sought by such tender offer, to its officers, directors, partners, employees or advisors or to other persons, involved in the planning, financing, preparation or execution of the activities of the issuer with respect to such tender offer; or
(iii) To any person pursuant to a requirement of any statute or rule or regulation promulgated thereunder.
(2) The persons referred to in paragraph (d)(1) of this section are:
(i) The offering person or its officers, directors, partners, employees or advisors;
(ii) The issuer of the securities sought or to be sought by such tender offer or its officers, directors, partners, employees or advisors;
(iii) Anyone acting on behalf of the persons in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section or the issuer or persons in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section; and
(iv) Any person in possession of material information relating to a tender offer which information he knows or has reason to know is nonpublic and which he knows or has reason to know has been acquired directly or indirectly from any of the above.
[45 FR 60418, Sept. 12, 1980]
§ 240.14e-4
Prohibited transactions in connection with partial tender offers.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) The amount of a person's “net long position” in a subject security shall equal the excess, if any, of such person's “long position” over such person's “short position.” For the purposes of determining the net long position as of the end of the proration period and for tendering concurrently to two or more partial tender offers, securities that have been tendered in accordance with the rule and not withdrawn are deemed to be part of the person's long position.
(i) Such person's
long position
is the amount of subject securities that such person:
(A) Or his agent has title to or would have title to but for having lent such securities; or
(B) Has purchased, or has entered into an unconditional contract, binding on both parties thereto, to purchase but has not yet received; or
(C) Has exercised a standardized call option for; or
(D) Has converted, exchanged, or exercised an equivalent security for; or
(E) Is entitled to receive upon conversion, exchange, or exercise of an equivalent security.
(ii) Such person's
short position,
is the amount of subject securities or subject securities underlying equivalent securities that such person:
(A) Has sold, or has entered into an unconditional contract, binding on both parties thereto, to sell; or
(B) Has borrowed; or
(C) Has written a non-standardized call option, or granted any other right pursuant to which his shares may be tendered by another person; or
(D) Is obligated to deliver upon exercise of a standardized call option sold on or after the date that a tender offer is first publicly announced or otherwise made known by the bidder to holders of the security to be acquired, if the exercise price of such option is lower than the highest tender offer price or stated amount of the consideration offered for the subject security. For the purpose of this paragraph, if one or more tender offers for the same
security are ongoing on such date, the announcement date shall be that of the first announced offer.
(2) The term
equivalent security
means:
(i) Any security (including any option, warrant, or other right to purchase the subject security), issued by the person whose securities are the subject of the offer, that is immediately convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for, a subject security, or
(ii) Any other right or option (other than a standardized call option) that entitles the holder thereof to acquire a subject security, but only if the holder thereof reasonably believes that the maker or writer of the right or option has title to and possession of the subject security and upon exercise will promptly deliver the subject security.
(3) The term
subject security
means a security that is the subject of any tender offer or request or invitation for tenders.
(4) For purposes of this rule, a person shall be deemed to “tender” a security if he:
(i) Delivers a subject security pursuant to an offer,
(ii) Causes such delivery to be made,
(iii) Guarantees delivery of a subject security pursuant to a tender offer,
(iv) Causes a guarantee of such delivery to be given by another person, or
(v) Uses any other method by which acceptance of a tender offer may be made.
(5) The term
partial tender offer
means a tender offer or request or invitation for tenders for less than all of the outstanding securities subject to the offer in which tenders are accepted either by lot or on a
pro rata
basis for a specified period, or a tender offer for all of the outstanding shares that offers a choice of consideration in which tenders for different forms of consideration may be accepted either by lot or on a
pro rata
basis for a specified period.
(6) The term
standardized call option
means any call option that is traded on an exchange, or for which quotation information is disseminated in an electronic interdealer quotation system of a registered national securities association.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person acting alone or in concert with others, directly or indirectly, to tender any subject security in a partial tender offer:
(1) For his own account unless at the time of tender, and at the end of the proration period or period during which securities are accepted by lot (including any extensions thereof), he has a net long position equal to or greater than the amount tendered in:
(i) The subject security and will deliver or cause to be delivered such security for the purpose of tender to the person making the offer within the period specified in the offer; or
(ii) An equivalent security and, upon the acceptance of his tender will acquire the subject security by conversion, exchange, or exercise of such equivalent security to the extent required by the terms of the offer, and will deliver or cause to be delivered the subject security so acquired for the purpose of tender to the person making the offer within the period specified in the offer; or
(2) For the account of another person unless the person making the tender:
(i) Possesses the subject security or an equivalent security, or
(ii) Has a reasonable belief that, upon information furnished by the person on whose behalf the tender is made, such person owns the subject security or an equivalent security and will promptly deliver the subject security or such equivalent security for the purpose of tender to the person making the tender.
(c) This rule shall not prohibit any transaction or transactions which the Commission, upon written request or upon its own motion, exempts, either unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions.
[49 FR 13870, Apr. 9, 1984, as amended at 50 FR 8102, Feb. 28, 1985. Redesignated and amended at 55 FR 50320, Dec. 6, 1990]
§ 240.14e-5
Prohibiting purchases outside of a tender offer.
(a)
Unlawful activity.
As a means reasonably designed to prevent fraudulent, deceptive or manipulative acts or practices in connection with a tender offer for equity securities, no covered person may directly or indirectly purchase or
arrange to purchase any subject securities or any related securities except as part of the tender offer. This prohibition applies from the time of public announcement of the tender offer until the tender offer expires. This prohibition does not apply to any purchases or arrangements to purchase made during the time of any subsequent offering period as provided for in § 240.14d-11 if the consideration paid or to be paid for the purchases or arrangements to purchase is the same in form and amount as the consideration offered in the tender offer.
(b)
Excepted activity.
The following transactions in subject securities or related securities are not prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section:
(1)
Exercises of securities.
Transactions by covered persons to convert, exchange, or exercise related securities into subject securities, if the covered person owned the related securities before public announcement;
(2)
Purchases for plans.
Purchases or arrangements to purchase by or for a plan that are made by an agent independent of the issuer;
(3)
Purchases during odd-lot offers.
Purchases or arrangements to purchase if the tender offer is excepted under § 240.13e-4(h)(5);
(4)
Purchases as intermediary.
Purchases by or through a dealer-manager or its affiliates that are made in the ordinary course of business and made either:
(i) On an agency basis not for a covered person; or
(ii) As principal for its own account if the dealer-manager or its affiliate is not a market maker, and the purchase is made to offset a contemporaneous sale after having received an unsolicited order to buy from a customer who is not a covered person;
(5)
Basket transactions.
Purchases or arrangements to purchase a basket of securities containing a subject security or a related security if the following conditions are satisfied:
(i) The purchase or arrangement to purchase is made in the ordinary course of business and not to facilitate the tender offer;
(ii) The basket contains 20 or more securities; and
(iii) Covered securities and related securities do not comprise more than 5% of the value of the basket;
(6)
Covering transactions.
Purchases or arrangements to purchase that are made to satisfy an obligation to deliver a subject security or a related security arising from a short sale or from the exercise of an option by a non-covered person if:
(i) The short sale or option transaction was made in the ordinary course of business and not to facilitate the offer;
(ii) In the case of a short sale, the short sale was entered into before public announcement of the tender offer; and
(iii) In the case of an exercise of an option, the covered person wrote the option before public announcement of the tender offer;
(7)
Purchases pursuant to contractual obligations.
Purchases or arrangements to purchase pursuant to a contract if the following conditions are satisfied:
(i) The contract was entered into before public announcement of the tender offer;
(ii) The contract is unconditional and binding on both parties; and
(iii) The existence of the contract and all material terms including quantity, price and parties are disclosed in the offering materials;
(8)
Purchases or arrangements to purchase by an affiliate of the dealer-manager.
Purchases or arrangements to purchase by an affiliate of a dealer-manager if the following conditions are satisfied:
(i) The dealer-manager maintains and enforces written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent the flow of information to or from the affiliate that might result in a violation of the federal securities laws and regulations;
(ii) The dealer-manager is registered as a broker or dealer under Section 15(a) of the Act;
(iii) The affiliate has no officers (or persons performing similar functions) or employees (other than clerical, ministerial, or support personnel) in common with the dealer-manager that direct, effect, or recommend transactions in securities; and
(iv) The purchases or arrangements to purchase are not made to facilitate the tender offer;
(9)
Purchases by connected exempt market makers or connected exempt principal traders.
Purchases or arrangements to purchase if the following conditions are satisfied:
(i) The issuer of the subject security is a foreign private issuer, as defined in § 240.3b-4(c);
(ii) The tender offer is subject to the United Kingdom's City Code on Takeovers and Mergers;
(iii) The purchase or arrangement to purchase is effected by a connected exempt market maker or a connected exempt principal trader, as those terms are used in the United Kingdom's City Code on Takeovers and Mergers;
(iv) The connected exempt market maker or the connected exempt principal trader complies with the applicable provisions of the United Kingdom's City Code on Takeovers and Mergers; and
(v) The tender offer documents disclose the identity of the connected exempt market maker or the connected exempt principal trader and disclose, or describe how U.S. security holders can obtain, information regarding market making or principal purchases by such market maker or principal trader to the extent that this information is required to be made public in the United Kingdom;
(10)
Purchases during cross-border tender offers.
Purchases or arrangements to purchase if the following conditions are satisfied:
(i) The tender offer is excepted under § 240.13e-4(h)(8) or § 240.14d-1(c);
(ii) The offering documents furnished to U.S. holders prominently disclose the possibility of any purchases, or arrangements to purchase, or the intent to make such purchases;
(iii) The offering documents disclose the manner in which any information about any such purchases or arrangements to purchase will be disclosed;
(iv) The offeror discloses information in the United States about any such purchases or arrangements to purchase in a manner comparable to the disclosure made in the home jurisdiction, as defined in § 240.13e-4(i)(3); and
(v) The purchases comply with the applicable tender offer laws and regulations of the home jurisdiction; and
(11)
Purchases or arrangements to purchase pursuant to a foreign tender offer(s).
Purchases or arrangements to purchase pursuant to a foreign offer(s) where the offeror seeks to acquire subject securities through a U.S. tender offer and a concurrent or substantially concurrent foreign offer(s), if the following conditions are satisfied:
(i) The U.S. and foreign tender offer(s) meet the conditions for reliance on the Tier II cross-border exemptions set forth in § 240.14d-1(d);
(ii) The economic terms and consideration in the U.S. tender offer and foreign tender offer(s) are the same, provided that any cash consideration to be paid to U.S. security holders may be converted from the currency to be paid in the foreign tender offer(s) to U.S. dollars at an exchange rate disclosed in the U.S. offering documents;
(iii) The procedural terms of the U.S. tender offer are at least as favorable as the terms of the foreign tender offer(s);
(iv) The intention of the offeror to make purchases pursuant to the foreign tender offer(s) is disclosed in the U.S. offering documents; and
(v) Purchases by the offeror in the foreign tender offer(s) are made solely pursuant to the foreign tender offer(s) and not pursuant to an open market transaction(s), a private transaction(s), or other transaction(s); and
(12)
Purchases or arrangements to purchase by an affiliate of the financial advisor and an offeror and its affiliates.
(i) Purchases or arrangements to purchase by an affiliate of a financial advisor and an offeror and its affiliates that are permissible under and will be conducted in accordance with the applicable laws of the subject company's home jurisdiction, if the following conditions are satisfied:
(A) The subject company is a foreign private issuer as defined in § 240.3b-4(c);
(B) The covered person reasonably expects that the tender offer meets the conditions for reliance on the Tier II cross-border exemptions set forth in § 240.14d-1(d);
(C) No purchases or arrangements to purchase otherwise than pursuant to
the tender offer are made in the United States;
(D) The United States offering materials disclose prominently the possibility of, or the intention to make, purchases or arrangements to purchase subject securities or related securities outside of the tender offer, and if there will be public disclosure of purchases of subject or related securities, the manner in which information regarding such purchases will be disseminated;
(E) There is public disclosure in the United States, to the extent that such information is made public in the subject company's home jurisdiction, of information regarding all purchases of subject securities and related securities otherwise than pursuant to the tender offer from the time of public announcement of the tender offer until the tender offer expires;
(F) Purchases or arrangements to purchase by an offeror and its affiliates must satisfy the following additional condition: the tender offer price will be increased to match any consideration paid outside of the tender offer that is greater than the tender offer price; and
(G) Purchases or arrangements to purchase by an affiliate of a financial advisor must satisfy the following additional conditions:
(
1
) The financial advisor and the affiliate maintain and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent the transfer of information among the financial advisor and affiliate that might result in a violation of U.S. federal securities laws and regulations through the establishment of information barriers;
(
2
) The financial advisor has an affiliate that is registered as a broker or dealer under section 15(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(a));
(
3
) The affiliate has no officers (or persons performing similar functions) or employees (other than clerical, ministerial, or support personnel) in common with the financial advisor that direct, effect, or recommend transactions in the subject securities or related securities who also will be involved in providing the offeror or subject company with financial advisory services or dealer-manager services; and
(
4
) The purchases or arrangements to purchase are not made to facilitate the tender offer.
(ii) [Reserved]
(c)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the term:
(1)
Affiliate
has the same meaning as in § 240.12b-2;
(2)
Agent independent of the issuer
has the same meaning as in § 242.100(b) of this chapter;
(3)
Covered person
means:
(i) The offeror and its affiliates;
(ii) The offeror's dealer-manager and its affiliates;
(iii) Any advisor to any of the persons specified in paragraph (c)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, whose compensation is dependent on the completion of the offer; and
(iv) Any person acting, directly or indirectly, in concert with any of the persons specified in this paragraph (c)(3) in connection with any purchase or arrangement to purchase any subject securities or any related securities;
(4)
Plan
has the same meaning as in § 242.100(b) of this chapter;
(5)
Public announcement
is any oral or written communication by the offeror or any person authorized to act on the offeror's behalf that is reasonably designed to, or has the effect of, informing the public or security holders in general about the tender offer;
(6)
Related securities
means securities that are immediately convertible into, exchangeable for, or exercisable for subject securities;
(7)
Subject securities
has the same meaning as in § 229.1000 of this chapter; and
(8)
Subject company
has the same meaning as in § 229.1000 of this chapter; and
(9)
Home jurisdiction
has the same meaning as in the Instructions to paragraphs (c) and (d) of § 240.14d-1.
(d)
Exemptive authority.
Upon written application or upon its own motion, the Commission may grant an exemption from the provisions of this section, either unconditionally or on specified terms or conditions, to any transaction or class of transactions or any
security or class of security, or any person or class of persons.
[64 FR 61465, Nov. 10, 1999, as amended at 73 FR 60093, Oct. 9, 2008]
§ 240.14e-6
Repurchase offers by certain closed-end registered investment companies.
Sections 240.14e-1 and 240.14e-2 shall not apply to any offer by a closed-end management investment company to repurchase equity securities of which it is the issuer pursuant to § 270.23c-3 of this chapter.
[58 FR 19343, Apr. 14, 1993]
§ 240.14e-7
Unlawful tender offer practices in connection with roll-ups.
In order to implement section 14(h) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78n(h)):
(a)(1) It shall be unlawful for any person to receive compensation for soliciting tenders directly from security holders in connection with a roll-up transaction as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, if the compensation is:
(i) Based on whether the solicited person participates in the tender offer; or
(ii) Contingent on the success of the tender offer.
(2) Paragraph (a)(1) of this section is applicable to a roll-up transaction as defined in Item 901(c) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.901(c) of this chapter), structured as a tender offer, except for a transaction involving only:
(i) Finite-life entities that are not limited partnerships;
(ii) Partnerships whose investors will receive new securities or securities in another entity that are not reported under a transaction reporting plan declared effective before December 17, 1993 by the Commission under section 11A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78k-1); or
(iii) Partnerships whose investors' securities are reported under a transaction reporting plan declared effective before December 17, 1993 by the Commission under section 11A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78k-1).
(b)(1) It shall be unlawful for any finite-life entity that is the subject of a roll-up transaction as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section to fail to provide a security holder list or mail communications related to a tender offer that is in furtherance of the roll-up transaction, at the option of a requesting security holder, pursuant to the procedures set forth in § 240.14a-7.
(2) Paragraph (b)(1) of this section is applicable to a roll-up transaction as defined in Item 901(c) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.901(c) of this chapter), structured as a tender offer, that involves:
(i) An entity with securities registered pursuant to section 12 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
l
); or
(ii) A limited partnership, unless the transaction involves only:
(A) Partnerships whose investors will receive new securities or securities in another entity that are not reported under a transaction reporting plan declared effective before December 17, 1993 by the Commission under section 11A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78k-1); or
(B) Partnerships whose investors' securities are reported under a transaction reporting plan declared effective before December 17, 1993 by the Commission under section 11A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78k-1).
[59 FR 63685, Dec. 8, 1994]
§ 240.14e-8
Prohibited conduct in connection with pre-commencement communications.
It is a fraudulent, deceptive or manipulative act or practice within the meaning of section 14(e) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78n) for any person to publicly announce that the person (or a party on whose behalf the person is acting) plans to make a tender offer that has not yet been commenced, if the person:
(a) Is making the announcement of a potential tender offer without the intention to commence the offer within a reasonable time and complete the offer;
(b) Intends, directly or indirectly, for the announcement to manipulate the market price of the stock of the bidder or subject company; or
(c) Does not have the reasonable belief that the person will have the means to purchase securities to complete the offer.
[64 FR 61466, Nov. 10, 1999]
§ 240.14f-1
Change in majority of directors.
If, pursuant to any arrangement or understanding with the person or persons acquiring securities in a transaction subject to section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Act, any persons are to be elected or designated as directors of the issuer, otherwise than at a meeting of security holders, and the persons so elected or designated will constitute a majority of the directors of the issuer, then, not less than 10 days prior to the date any such person take office as a director, or such shorter period prior to that date as the Commission may authorize upon a showing of good cause therefor, the issuer shall file with the Commission and transmit to all holders of record of securities of the issuer who would be entitled to vote at a meeting for election of directors, information substantially equivalent to the information which would be required by Items 6 (a), (d) and (e), 7 and 8 of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A (§ 240.14a-101 of this chapter) to be transmitted if such person or persons were nominees for election as directors at a meeting of such security holders. Eight copies of such information shall be filed with the Commission.
[33 FR 11017, Aug. 2, 1968, as amended at 34 FR 6101, Apr. 4, 1969; 51 FR 42072, Nov. 20, 1986]

# Regulation 14N: Filings Required by Certain Nominating Shareholders
§ 240.14n-1
Filing of Schedule 14N.
(a) A shareholder or group of shareholders that submits a nominee or nominees in accordance with a procedure set forth under applicable state or foreign law or a registrant's governing documents providing for the inclusion of shareholder director nominees in the registrant's proxy materials shall file with the Commission a statement containing the information required by Schedule 14N (§ 240.14n-101) and simultaneously provide the notice on Schedule 14N to the registrant.
(b)(1) Whenever two or more persons are required to file a statement containing the information required by Schedule 14N (§ 240.14n-101), only one statement need be filed. The statement must identify all such persons, contain the required information with regard to each such person, indicate that the statement is filed on behalf of all such persons, and include, as an appendix, their agreement in writing that the statement is filed on behalf of each of them. Each person on whose behalf the statement is filed is responsible for the timely filing of that statement and any amendments thereto, and for the completeness and accuracy of the information concerning such person contained therein; such person is not responsible for the completeness or accuracy of the information concerning the other persons making the filing.
(2) If the group's members elect to make their own filings, each filing should identify all members of the group but the information provided concerning the other persons making the filing need only reflect information which the filing person knows or has reason to know.
[75 FR 56788, Sept. 16, 2010, as amended at 90 FR 9690, Feb. 18, 2025]
§ 240.14n-2
Filing of amendments to Schedule 14N.
(a) If any material change occurs with respect to the nomination, or in the disclosure or certifications set forth in the Schedule 14N (§ 240.14n-101) required by § 240.14n-1(a), the person or persons who were required to file the statement shall promptly file or cause to be filed with the Commission an amendment disclosing that change.
(b) An amendment shall be filed within 10 calendar days of the final results of the election being announced by the registrant stating the nominating shareholder's or the nominating shareholder group's intention with regard to continued ownership of their shares.
[75 FR 56788, Sept. 16, 2010]
§ 240.14n-3
Dissemination.
One copy of Schedule 14N (§ 240.14n-101) filed pursuant to §§ 240.14n-1 and 240.14n-2 shall be mailed by registered or certified mail or electronically transmitted to the registrant at its principal executive office. Three copies of the material must at the same time be filed with, or mailed for filing to, each national securities exchange upon
which any class of securities of the registrant is listed and registered.
[75 FR 56788, Sept. 16, 2010]
§ 240.14n-101
Schedule 14N—Information to be included in statements filed pursuant to § 240.14n-1 and amendments thereto filed pursuant to § 240.14n-2.
Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, DC 20549
Schedule 14N
Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(Amendment No. __)*
(Name of Issuer)
(Title of Class of Securities)
(CUSIP Number)
[ ] Notice of Submission of a Nominee or Nominees in Accordance with Procedures Set Forth Under Applicable State or Foreign Law, or the Registrant's Governing Documents
* The remainder of this cover page shall be filled out for a reporting person's initial filing on this form, and for any subsequent amendment containing information which would alter the disclosures provided in a prior cover page.
The information required in the remainder of this cover page shall not be deemed to be “filed” for the purpose of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Act”) or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section of the Act but shall be subject to all other provisions of the Act.
(1) Names of reporting persons: ________________________
(2) Mailing address and phone number of each reporting person (or, where applicable, the authorized representative): ________________________
(3) Amount of securities held that are entitled to be voted on the election of directors held by each reporting person (and, where applicable, amount of securities held in the aggregate by the nominating shareholder group), but including loaned securities and net of securities sold short or borrowed for purposes other than a short sale: ________________________
(4) Number of votes attributable to the securities entitled to be voted on the election of directors represented by amount in Row (3) (and, where applicable, aggregate number of votes attributable to the securities entitled to be voted on the election of directors held by group): ________________________
Instructions for Cover Page:
(1)
Names of Reporting Persons
—Furnish the full legal name of each person for whom the report is filed—
i.e.,
each person required to sign the schedule itself—including each member of a group. Do not include the name of a person required to be identified in the report but who is not a reporting person.
(3) and (4)
Amount Held by Each Reporting Person
—Rows (3) and (4) are to be completed in accordance with the provisions of Item 3 of Schedule 14N.

# Notes:
Attach as many copies of parts one through three of the cover page as are needed, one reporting person per copy.
Filing persons may, in order to avoid unnecessary duplication, answer items on Schedule 14N by appropriate cross references to an item or items on the cover page(s). This approach may only be used where the cover page item or items provide all the disclosure required by the schedule item. Moreover, such a use of a cover page item will result in the item becoming a part of the schedule and accordingly being considered as “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section of the Act.

# Special Instructions for Complying With Schedule 14N
Under Sections 14 and 23 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations thereunder, the Commission is authorized to solicit the information required to be supplied by this Schedule. The information will be used for the primary purpose of determining and disclosing the holdings and interests of a nominating shareholder or nominating shareholder group. This statement will be made a matter of public record. Therefore, any information given will be available for inspection by any member of the public.
Because of the public nature of the information, the Commission can use it
for a variety of purposes, including referral to other governmental authorities or securities self-regulatory organizations for investigatory purposes or in connection with litigation involving the Federal securities laws or other civil, criminal or regulatory statutes or provisions. Failure to disclose the information requested by this schedule may result in civil or criminal action against the persons involved for violation of the Federal securities laws and rules promulgated thereunder, or in some cases, exclusion of the nominee from the registrant's proxy materials.

# General Instructions to Item Requirements
The item numbers and captions of the items shall be included but the text of the items is to be omitted. The answers to the items shall be prepared so as to indicate clearly the coverage of the items without referring to the text of the items. Answer every item. If an item is inapplicable or the answer is in the negative, so state.

# Item 1(
a

# ). Name of Registrant

# Item 1(
b

# ). Address of Registrant's Principal Executive Offices

# Item 2(
a

# ). Name of Person Filing

# Item 2(
b

# ). Address or Principal Business Office or, if None, Residence

# Item 2(
c

# ). Title of Class of Securities

# Item 2(
d

# ). CUSIP No.

# Items 3.-5.[Reserved]

# Item 6. Disclosure Required by § 240.14a-18
If a nominating shareholder or nominating shareholder group is submitting this notice in connection with the inclusion of a shareholder nominee or nominees for director in the registrant's proxy materials pursuant to a procedure set forth under applicable state or foreign law, or the registrant's governing documents provide the following disclosure:
(a) A statement that the nominee consents to be named in the registrant's proxy statement and form of proxy and, if elected, to serve on the registrant's board of directors;
(b) Disclosure about the nominee as would be provided in response to the disclosure requirements of Items 4(b), 5(b), 7(a), (b) and (c) and, for investment companies, Item 22(b) of Schedule 14A (§ 240.14a-101), as applicable;
(c) Disclosure about the nominating shareholder or each member of a nominating shareholder group as would be required in response to the disclosure requirements of Items 4(b) and 5(b) of Schedule 14A (§ 240.14a-101), as applicable;
(d) Disclosure about whether the nominating shareholder or any member of a nominating shareholder group has been involved in any legal proceeding during the past ten years, as specified in Item 401(f) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.10 of this chapter). Disclosure pursuant to this paragraph need not be provided if provided in response to Item 6(c) of this section;
Instruction 1 to Item 6(c) and (d).
Where the nominating shareholder is a general or limited partnership, syndicate or other group, the information called for in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Item must be given with respect to:
a. Each partner of the general partnership;
b. Each partner who is, or functions as, a general partner of the limited partnership;
c. Each member of the syndicate or group; and
d. Each person controlling the partner or member.
Instruction 2 to Item 6(c) and (d).
If the nominating shareholder is a corporation or if a person referred to in a., b., c. or d. of Instruction 1 to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Item is a corporation, the information called for in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Item must be given with respect to:
a. Each executive officer and director of the corporation;
b. Each person controlling the corporation; and
c. Each executive officer and director of any corporation or other person ultimately in control of the corporation.
(e) The following information regarding the nature and extent of the relationships between the nominating
shareholder or nominating shareholder group, the nominee, and/or the registrant or any affiliate of the registrant:
(1) Any direct or indirect material interest in any contract or agreement between the nominating shareholder or any member of the nominating shareholder group, the nominee, and/or the registrant or any affiliate of the registrant (including any employment agreement, collective bargaining agreement, or consulting agreement);
(2) Any material pending or threatened legal proceeding in which the nominating shareholder or any member of the nominating shareholder group and/or nominee is a party or a material participant, involving the registrant, any of its executive officers or directors, or any affiliate of the registrant; and
(3) Any other material relationship between the nominating shareholder or any member of the nominating shareholder group, the nominee, and/or the registrant or any affiliate of the registrant not otherwise disclosed; and
Instruction to Item 6(e)(3).
Any other material relationship of the nominating shareholder or any member of the nominating shareholder group with the registrant or any affiliate of the registrant may include, but is not limited to, whether the nominating shareholder or any member of the nominating shareholder group currently has, or has had in the past, an employment relationship with the registrant or any affiliate of the registrant (including consulting arrangements).
(f) The Web site address on which the nominating shareholder or nominating shareholder group may publish soliciting materials, if any.

# Item 7. Notice of Dissolution of Group or Termination of Shareholder Nomination
Notice of dissolution of a nominating shareholder group or the termination of a shareholder nomination shall state the date of the dissolution or termination.

# Item 8. Signatures
The following certification shall be provided by the filing person or persons submitting this notice in connection with the submission of a nominee or nominees in accordance with procedures set forth under applicable state or foreign law or the registrant's governing documents:
I, [identify the certifying individual], after reasonable inquiry and to the best of my knowledge and belief, certify that the information set forth in this notice on Schedule 14N is true, complete and correct.
Dated:
Signature:
Name/Title:
The original statement shall be signed by each person on whose behalf the statement is filed or his authorized representative. If the statement is signed on behalf of a person by his authorized representative other than an executive officer or general partner of the filing person, evidence of the representative's authority to sign on behalf of such person shall be filed with the statement,
provided, however,
that a power of attorney for this purpose which is already on file with the Commission may be incorporated by reference. The name and any title of each person who signs the statement shall be typed or printed beneath his signature.
Attention:
Intentional misstatements or omissions of fact constitute Federal criminal violations (see 18 U.S.C. 1001).
[75 FR 56788, Sept. 16, 2010, as amended at 90 FR 9690, Feb. 18, 2025]

# Exemption of Certain OTC Derivatives Dealers
§ 240.15a-1
Securities activities of OTC derivatives dealers.

# Preliminary Note:
OTC derivatives dealers are a special class of broker-dealers that are exempt from certain broker-dealer requirements, including membership in a self-regulatory organization (§ 240.15b9-2), regular broker-dealer margin rules (§ 240.36a1-1), and application of the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 (§ 240.36a1-2). OTC derivative dealers are subject to special requirements, including limitations on the scope of their securities activities (§ 240.15a-1), specified internal risk management control systems (§ 240.15c3-4), recordkeeping obligations (§ 240.17a-3(a)(10)), and reporting responsibilities (§ 240.17a-12). They are also subject to alternative net capital treatment (§ 240.15c3-
1(a)(5)). This rule 15a-1 uses a number of defined terms in setting forth the securities activities in which an OTC derivatives dealer may engage: “OTC derivatives dealer,” “eligible OTC derivative instrument,” “cash management securities activities,” and “ancillary portfolio management securities activities.” These terms are defined under Rules 3b-12 through 3b-15 (§ 240.3b-12 through § 240.3b-15).
(a) The securities activities of an OTC derivatives dealer shall:
(1) Be limited to:
(i) Engaging in dealer activities in eligible OTC derivative instruments that are securities;
(ii) Issuing and reacquiring securities that are issued by the dealer, including warrants on securities, hybrid securities, and structured notes;
(iii) Engaging in cash management securities activities;
(iv) Engaging in ancillary portfolio management securities activities; and
(v) Engaging in such other securities activities that the Commission designates by order pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and
(2) Consist primarily of the activities described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i), (a)(1)(ii), and (a)(1)(iii) of this section; and
(3) Not consist of any other securities activities, including engaging in any transaction in any security that is not an eligible OTC derivative instrument, except as permitted under paragraphs (a)(1)(iii), (a)(1)(iv), and (a)(1)(v) of this section.
(b) The Commission, by order, entered upon its own initiative or after considering an application for exemptive relief, may clarify or expand the scope of eligible OTC derivative instruments and the scope of permissible securities activities of an OTC derivatives dealer. Such orders may:
(1) Identify other permissible securities activities;
(2) Determine that a class of fungible instruments that are standardized as to their material economic terms is within the scope of eligible OTC derivative instrument;
(3) Clarify whether certain contracts, agreements, or transactions are within the scope of eligible OTC derivative instrument; or
(4) Clarify whether certain securities activities are within the scope of ancillary portfolio management securities activities.
(c) To the extent an OTC derivatives dealer engages in any securities transaction pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (a)(1)(v) of this section, such transaction shall be effected through a registered broker or dealer (other than an OTC derivatives dealer) that, in the case of any securities transaction pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1)(i), or (a)(1)(iii) through (a)(1)(v) of this section, is an affiliate of the OTC derivatives dealer, except that this paragraph (c) shall not apply if:
(1) The counterparty to the transaction with the OTC derivatives dealer is acting as principal and is:
(i) A registered broker or dealer;
(ii) A bank acting in a dealer capacity, as permitted by U.S. law;
(iii) A foreign broker or dealer; or
(iv) An affiliate of the OTC derivatives dealer; or
(2) The OTC derivatives dealer is engaging in an ancillary portfolio management securities activity, and the transaction is in a foreign security, and a registered broker or dealer, a bank, or a foreign broker or dealer is acting as agent for the OTC derivatives dealer.
(d) To the extent an OTC derivatives dealer induces or attempts to induce any counterparty to enter into any securities transaction pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (a)(1)(v) of this section, any communication or contact with the counterparty concerning the transaction (other than clerical and ministerial activities conducted by an associated person of the OTC derivatives dealer) shall be conducted by one or more registered persons that, in the case of any securities transaction pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1)(i), or (a)(1)(iii) through (a)(1)(v) of this section, is associated with an affiliate of the OTC derivatives dealer, except that this paragraph (d) shall not apply if the counterparty to the transaction with the OTC derivatives dealer is:
(1) A registered broker or dealer;
(2) A bank acting in a dealer capacity, as permitted by U.S. law;
(3) A foreign broker or dealer; or
(4) An affiliate of the OTC derivatives dealer.
(e) For purposes of this section, the term
hybrid security
means a security that incorporates payment features economically similar to options, forwards, futures, swap agreements, or collars involving currencies, interest or other rates, commodities, securities, indices, quantitative measures, or other financial or economic interests or property of any kind, or any payment or delivery that is dependent on the occurrence or nonoccurrence of any event associated with a potential financial, economic, or commercial consequence (or any combination, permutation, or derivative of such contract or underlying interest).
(f) For purposes of this section, the term
affiliate
means any organization (whether incorporated or unincorporated) that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the OTC derivatives dealer.
(g) For purposes of this section, the term
foreign broker or dealer
means any person not resident in the United States (including any U.S. person engaged in business as a broker or dealer entirely outside the United States, except as otherwise permitted by § 240.15a-6) that is not an office or branch of, or a natural person associated with, a registered broker or dealer, whose securities activities, if conducted in the United States, would be described by the definition of “broker” in section 3(a)(4) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(4)) or “dealer” in section 3(a)(5) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(5)).
(h) For purposes of this section, the term
foreign security
means any security (including a depositary share issued by a United States bank, provided that the depositary share is initially offered and sold outside the United States in accordance with Regulation S (17 CFR 230.901 through 230.904)) issued by a person not organized or incorporated under the laws of the United States, provided the transaction that involves such security is not effected on a national securities exchange or on a market operated by a registered national securities association; or a debt security (including a convertible debt security) issued by an issuer organized or incorporated under the laws of the United States that is initially offered and sold outside the United States in accordance with Regulation S (17 CFR 230.901 through 230.904).
(i) For purposes of this section, the term
registered person
is:
(A) A natural person who is associated with a registered broker or dealer and is registered or approved under the rules of a self-regulatory organization of which such broker or dealer is a member; or
(B) If the counterparty to the transaction with the OTC derivatives dealer is a resident of a jurisdiction other than the United States, a natural person who is not resident in the United States and is associated with a broker or dealer that is registered or licensed by a foreign financial regulatory authority in the jurisdiction in which such counterparty is resident or in which such natural person is located, in accordance with applicable legal requirements, if any.
[63 FR 59396, Nov. 3, 1998]

# Exemption of Certain Securities From Section 15(
a

# )
§ 240.15a-2
Exemption of certain securities of cooperative apartment houses from section 15(a).
Shares of a corporation which represent ownership, or entitle the holders thereof to possession and occupancy, of specific apartment units in property owned by such corporations and organized and operated on a cooperative basis are hereby exempted from the operation of section 15(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, when such shares are sold by or through a real estate broker licensed under the laws of the political subdivision in which the property is located.
(Secs. 3, 48 Stat. 882, as amended, 895, as amended; 15 U.S.C. 78c, 78o)
[13 FR 8204, Dec. 22, 1948]
§ 240.15a-3
[Reserved]
§ 240.15a-4
Forty-five day exemption from registration for certain members of national securities exchanges.
(a) A natural person who is a member of a national securities exchange shall, upon termination of his association
with a registered broker-dealer, be exempt, for a period of forty-five days after such termination, from the registration requirement of section 15(a) of the Act solely for the purpose of continuing to effect transactions on the floor of such exchange if (1) such person has filed with the Commission an application for registration as a broker-dealer and such person complies in all material respects with rules of the Commission applicable to registered brokers and dealers and (2) such exchange has filed with the Commission a statement that it has reviewed such application and that there do not appear to be grounds for its denial.
(b) The exemption from registration provided by this rule shall not be available to any person while there is pending before the Commission any proceeding involving any such person pursuant to section 15(b)(1)(B) of the Act.
[41 FR 18290, May 3, 1976]
§ 240.15a-5
Exemption of certain nonbank lenders.
A lender approved under the rules and regulations of the Small Business Administration shall be exempt from the registration requirement of section 15(a) (1) of the Act if it does not engage in the business of effecting transactions in securities or of buying and selling securities for its own account except in respect of receiving notes evidencing loans to small business concerns and selling the portion of such notes guaranteed by the Small Business Administration through or to a registered broker or dealer or to a bank, a savings institution, an insurance company, or an account over which an investment adviser registered pursuant to the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 exercises investment discretion.
[41 FR 50645, Nov. 17, 1976]

# Registration of Brokers and Dealers
§ 240.15a-6
Exemption of certain foreign brokers or dealers.
(a) A foreign broker or dealer shall be exempt from the registration requirements of sections 15(a)(1) or 15B(a)(1) of the Act to the extent that the foreign broker or dealer:
(1) Effects transactions in securities with or for persons that have not been solicited by the foreign broker or dealer; or
(2) Furnishes research reports to major U.S. institutional investors, and effects transactions in the securities discussed in the research reports with or for those major U.S. institutional investors, provided that:
(i) The research reports do not recommend the use of the foreign broker or dealer to effect trades in any security;
(ii) The foreign broker or dealer does not initiate contact with those major U.S. institutional investors to follow up on the research reports, and does not otherwise induce or attempt to induce the purchase or sale of any security by those major U.S. institutional investors;
(iii) If the foreign broker or dealer has a relationship with a registered broker or dealer that satisfies the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) of this section, any transactions with the foreign broker or dealer in securities discussed in the research reports are effected only through that registered broker or dealer, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a)(3) of this section; and
(iv) The foreign broker or dealer does not provide research to U.S. persons pursuant to any express or implied understanding that those U.S. persons will direct commission income to the foreign broker or dealer; or
(3) Induces or attempts to induce the purchase or sale of any security by a U.S. institutional investor or a major U.S. institutional investor, provided that:
(i) The foreign broker or dealer:
(A) Effects any resulting transactions with or for the U.S. institutional investor or the major U.S. institutional investor through a registered broker or dealer in the manner described by paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section; and
(B) Provides the Commission (upon request or pursuant to agreements reached between any foreign securities authority, including any foreign government, as specified in section 3(a)(50) of the Act, and the Commission or the
U.S. Government) with any information or documents within the possession, custody, or control of the foreign broker or dealer, any testimony of foreign associated persons, and any assistance in taking the evidence of other persons, wherever located, that the Commission requests and that relates to transactions under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, except that if, after the foreign broker or dealer has exercised its best efforts to provide the information, documents, testimony, or assistance, including requesting the appropriate governmental body and, if legally necessary, its customers (with respect to customer information) to permit the foreign broker or dealer to provide the information, documents, testimony, or assistance to the Commission, the foreign broker or dealer is prohibited from providing this information, documents, testimony, or assistance by applicable foreign law or regulations, then this paragraph (a)(3)(i)(B) shall not apply and the foreign broker or dealer will be subject to paragraph (c) of this section;
(ii) The foreign associated person of the foreign broker or dealer effecting transactions with the U.S. institutional investor or the major U.S. institutional investor:
(A) Conducts all securities activities from outside the U.S., except that the foreign associated persons may conduct visits to U.S. institutional investors and major U.S. institutional investors within the United States, provided that:
(
1
) The foreign associated person is accompanied on these visits by an associated person of a registered broker or dealer that accepts responsibility for the foreign associated person's communications with the U.S. institutional investor or the major U.S institutional investor; and
(
2
) Transactions in any securities discussed during the visit by the foreign associated person are effected only through the registered broker or dealer, pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section; and
(B) Is determined by the registered broker or dealer to:
(
1
) Not be subject to a statutory disqualification specified in section 3(a)(39) of the Act, or any substantially equivalent foreign
(
i
) Expulsion or suspension from membership,
(
ii
) Bar or suspension from association,
(
iii
) Denial of trading privileges,
(
iv
) Order denying, suspending, or revoking registration or barring or suspending association, or
(
v
) Finding with respect to causing any such effective foreign suspension, expulsion, or order;
(
2
) Not to have been convicted of any foreign offense, enjoined from any foreign act, conduct, or practice, or found to have committed any foreign act substantially equivalent to any of those listed in sections 15(b)(4) (B), (C), (D), or (E) of the Act; and
(
3
) Not to have been found to have made or caused to be made any false foreign statement or omission substantially equivalent to any of those listed in section 3(a)(39)(E) of the Act; and
(iii) The registered broker or dealer through which the transaction with the U.S. institutional investor or the major U.S. institutional investor is effected:
(A) Is responsible for:
(
1
) Effecting the transactions conducted under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, other than negotiating their terms;
(
2
) Issuing all required confirmations and statements to the U.S. institutional investor or the major U.S. institutional investor;
(
3
) As between the foreign broker or dealer and the registered broker or dealer, extending or arranging for the extension of any credit to the U.S. institutional investor or the major U.S. institutional investor in connection with the transactions;
(
4
) Maintaining required books and records relating to the transactions, including those required by Rules 17a-3 and 17a-4 under the Act (17 CFR 2410.17a-3 and l7a-4);
(
5
) Complying with Rule 15c3-1 under the Act (17 CFR 240.15c3-1) with respect to the transactions; and
(
6
) Receiving, delivering, and safeguarding funds and securities in connection with the transactions on behalf of the U.S. institutional investor or the major U.S. institutional investor in
compliance with Rule 15c3-3 under the Act (17 CFR 240.15c3-3);
(B) Participates through an associated person in all oral communications between the foreign associated person and the U.S. institutional investor, other than a major U.S. institutional investor;
(C) Has obtained from the foreign broker or dealer, with respect to each foreign associated person, the types of information specified in Rule l7a-3(a)(12) under the Act (17 CFR 240.17a-3(a)(12)), provided that the information required by paragraph (a)(12)(d) of that Rule shall include sanctions imposed by foreign securities authorities, exchanges, or associations, including without limitation those described in paragraph (a)(3)(ii)(B) of this section;
(D) Has obtained from the foreign broker or dealer and each foreign associated person written consent to service of process for any civil action brought by or proceeding before the Commission or a self-regulatory organization (as defined in section 3(a)(26) of the Act), providing that process may be served on them by service on the registered broker or dealer in the manner set forth on the registered broker's or dealer's current Form BD; and
(E) Maintains a written record of the information and consents required by paragraphs (a)(3)(iii) (C) and (D) of this section, and all records in connection with trading activities of the U.S. institutional investor or the major U.S. institutional investor involving the foreign broker or dealer conducted under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, in an office of the registered broker or dealer located in the United States (with respect to nonresident registered brokers or dealers, pursuant to Rule 17a-7(a) under the Act (17 CFR 240.17a-7(a))), and makes these records available to the Commission upon request; or
(4) Effects transactions in securities with or for, or induces or attempts to induce the purchase or sale of any security by:
(i) A registered broker or dealer, whether the registered broker or dealer is acting as principal for its own account or as agent for others, or a bank acting pursuant to an exception or exemption from the definition of “broker” or “dealer” in sections 3(a)(4)(B), 3(a)(4)(E), or 3(a)(5)(C) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(4)(B), 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(4)(E), or 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(5)(C)) or the rules thereunder;
(ii) The African Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Monetary Fund, the United Nations, and their agencies, affiliates, and pension funds;
(iii) A foreign person temporarily present in the United States, with whom the foreign broker or dealer had a bona fide, pre-existing relationship before the foreign person entered the United States;
(iv) Any agency or branch of a U.S. person permanently located outside the United States, provided that the transactions occur outside the United States; or
(v) U.S. citizens resident outside the United States, provided that the transactions occur outside the United States, and that the foreign broker or dealer does not direct its selling efforts toward identifiable groups of U.S. citizens resident abroad.
(b) When used in this rule,
(1) The term
family of investment companies
shall mean:
(i) Except for insurance company separate accounts, any two or more separately registered investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940 that share the same investment adviser or principal underwriter and hold themselves out to investors as related companies for purposes of investment and investor services; and
(ii) With respect to insurance company separate accounts, any two or more separately registered separate accounts under the Investment Company Act of 1940 that share the same investment adviser or principal underwriter and function under operational or accounting or control systems that are substantially similar.
(2) The term
foreign associated person
shall mean any natural person domiciled outside the United States who is an associated person, as defined in section 3(a)(18) of the Act, of the foreign broker or dealer, and who participates
in the solicitation of a U.S. institutional investor or a major U.S. institutional investor under paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(3) The term
foreign broker or dealer
shall mean any non-U.S. resident person (including any U.S. person engaged in business as a broker or dealer entirely outside the United States, except as otherwise permitted by this rule) that is not an office or branch of, or a natural person associated with, a registered broker or dealer, whose securities activities, if conducted in the United States, would be described by the definition of “broker” or “dealer” in sections 3(a)(4) or 3(a)(5) of the Act.
(4) The term
major U.S. institutional investor
shall mean a person that is:
(i) A U.S. institutional investor that has, or has under management, total assets in excess of $100 million; provided, however, that for purposes of determining the total assets of an investment company under this rule, the investment company may include the assets of any family of investment companies of which it is a part; or
(ii) An investment adviser registered with the Commission under section 203 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 that has total assets under management in excess of $100 million.
(5) The term
registered broker or dealer
shall mean a person that is registered with the Commission under sections 15(b), 15B(a)(2), or 15C(a)(2) of the Act.
(6) The term
United States
shall mean the United States of America, including the States and any territories and other areas subject to its jurisdiction.
(7) The term
U.S. institutional investor
shall mean a person that is:
(i) An investment company registered with the Commission under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940; or
(ii) A bank, savings and loan association, insurance company, business development company, small business investment company, or employee benefit plan defined in Rule 501(a)(1) of Regulation D under the Securities Act of 1933 (17 CFR 230.501(a)(1)); a private business development company defined in Rule 501(a)(2) (17 CFR 230.501(a)(2)); an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, as defined in Rule 501(a)(3) (17 CFR 230.501(a)(3)); or a trust defined in Rule 501(a)(7) (17 CFR 230.501(a)(7)).
(c) The Commission, by order after notice and opportunity for hearing, may withdraw the exemption provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section with respect to the subsequent activities of a foreign broker or dealer or class of foreign brokers or dealers conducted from a foreign country, if the Commission finds that the laws or regulations of that foreign country have prohibited the foreign broker or dealer, or one of a class of foreign brokers or dealers, from providing, in response to a request from the Commission, information or documents within its possession, custody, or control, testimony of foreign associated persons, or assistance in taking the evidence of other persons, wherever located, related to activities exempted by paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
[54 FR 30031, July 18, 1989, as amended at 72 FR 56568, Oct. 3, 2007]
§§ 240.15a-7—240.15a-9
[Reserved]
§ 240.15a-10
Exemption of certain brokers or dealers with respect to security futures products.
(a) A broker or dealer that is registered by notice with the Commission pursuant to section 15(b)(11)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(11)(A)) and that is not a member of either a national securities exchange registered pursuant to section 6(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78f(a)) or a national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-3(a)) will be exempt from the registration requirement of section 15(a)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(a)(1)) solely to act as a broker or a dealer in security futures products.
(b) A broker or dealer that is registered by notice with the Commission pursuant to section 15(b)(11)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(11)(A)) and that is a member of either a national securities exchange registered pursuant to section 6(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78f(a)) or a national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-3(a)) will be exempt from the registration requirement of section 15(a)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(a)(1)) solely to act as a
broker or a dealer in security futures products, if:
(1) The rules of any such exchange or association of which the broker or dealer is a member provides specifically for a broker or dealer that is registered by notice with the Commission pursuant to section 15(b)(11)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(11)(A)) to become a member of such exchange or association; and
(2) The broker or dealer complies with section 11(a)-(c) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78k(a)-(c)) with respect to any transactions in security futures products on a national securities exchange registered pursuant to section 6(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78f(a)) of which it is a member, notwithstanding section 15(b)(11)(B)(ii) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(11)(B)(ii)).
[66 FR 45146, Aug. 27, 2001]
§ 240.15a-11
[Reserved]
§ 240.15a-12
Exemption for certain security-based swap execution facilities from certain broker requirements.
(a) For purposes of this section, an
SBSEF-B
means a security-based swap execution facility that does not engage in any securities activity other than facilitating the trading of security-based swaps on or through the security-based swap execution facility.
(b) An SBSEF-B that registers with the Commission pursuant to § 242.803 of this chapter shall be deemed also to have registered with the Commission pursuant to sections 15(a) and (b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
(a)(1) and (b)).
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, an SBSEF-B shall be exempt from any provision of the Act or the Commission's rules thereunder applicable to brokers that, by its terms, requires, prohibits, restricts, limits, conditions, or affects the activities of a broker, unless such provision specifies that it applies to a security-based swap execution facility.
(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (c) of this section, the following provisions of the Act and the Commission's rules thereunder shall apply to an SBSEF-B:
(1) Section 15(b)(4) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
(b)(4));
(2) Section 15(b)(6) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
(b)(6)); and
(3) Section 17(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q(b)).
(e) An SBSEF-B shall be exempt from the Securities Investor Protection Act.
[88 FR 87285, Dec. 15, 2023]
§ 240.15b1-1
Application for registration of brokers or dealers.
(a) An application for registration of a broker or dealer that is filed pursuant to section 15(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)) shall be filed on Form BD (§ 249.501 of this chapter) in accordance with the instructions to the form. A broker or dealer that is an OTC derivatives dealer shall indicate where appropriate on Form BD that the type of business in which it is engaged is that of acting as an OTC derivatives dealer.
(b) Every application for registration of a broker or dealer that is filed on or after January 25, 1993, shall be filed with the Central Registration Depository operated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.
(c) An application for registration that is filed with the Central Registration Depository pursuant to this section shall be considered a “report” filed with the Commission for purposes of Sections 15(b), 17(a), 18(a), 32(a) (15 U.S.C. 78o(b), 78q(a), 78r(a), 78ff(a)) and other applicable provisions of the Act.
[19 FR 1041, Feb. 24, 1954. Redesignated at 30 FR 11851, Sept. 16, 1965, and amended at 58 FR 14, Jan. 4, 1993; 63 FR 59397, Nov. 3, 1998; 64 FR 25147, May 10, 1999; 73 FR 4692, Jan. 28, 2008]
§ 240.15b1-2
[Reserved]
§ 240.15b1-3
Registration of successor to registered broker or dealer.
(a) In the event that a broker or dealer succeeds to and continues the business of a broker or dealer registered pursuant to section 15(b) of the Act, the registration of the predecessor shall be deemed to remain effective as the registration of the successor if the successor, within 30 days after such succession, files an application for registration on Form BD, and the predecessor files a notice of withdrawal from registration on Form BDW;
Provided, however,
That the registration of the
predecessor broker or dealer will cease to be effective as the registration of the successor broker or dealer 45 days after the application for registration on Form BD is filed by such successor.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, if a broker or dealer succeeds to and continues the business of a registered predecessor broker or dealer, and the succession is based solely on a change in the predecessor's date or state of incorporation, form of organization, or composition of a partnership, the successor may, within 30 days after the succession, amend the registration of the predecessor broker or dealer on Form BD to reflect these changes. This amendment shall be deemed an application for registration filed by the predecessor and adopted by the successor.
[58 FR 10, Jan. 4, 1993]
§ 240.15b1-4
Registration of fiduciaries.
The registration of a broker or dealer shall be deemed to be the registration of any executor, administrator, guardian, conservator, assignee for the benefit of creditors, receiver, trustee in insolvency or bankruptcy, or other fiduciary, appointed or qualified by order, judgment, or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction to continue the business of such registered broker or dealer;
Provided,
That such fiduciary files with the Commission, within 30 days after entering upon the performance of his duties, a statement setting forth as to such fiduciary substantially the information required by Form BD.
(Secs. 15, 17, 48 Stat. 895, as amended, 897 as amended; 15 U.S.C. 78
o,
78q)
[19 FR 1041, Feb. 24, 1954. Redesignated at 30 FR 11851, Sept. 16, 1965]
§ 240.15b1-5
Consent to service of process to be furnished by nonresident brokers or dealers and by nonresident general partners or managing agents of brokers or dealers.
(a) Each nonresident broker or dealer registered or applying for registration pursuant to section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each nonresident general partner of a broker or dealer partnership which is registered or applying for registration, and each nonresident managing agent of any other unincorporated broker or dealer which is registered or applying for registration, shall furnish to the Commission, in a form prescribed by or acceptable to it, a written irrevocable consent and power of attorney which (1) designates the Securities and Exchange Commission as an agent upon whom may be served any process, pleadings, or other papers in any civil suit or action brought in any appropriate court in any place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, with respect to any cause of action (i) which accrues during the period beginning when such broker or dealer becomes registered pursuant to section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations thereunder and ending either when such registration is cancelled or revoked, or when the Commission receives from such broker or dealer a notice to withdraw from such registration, whichever is earlier, (ii) which arises out of any activity, in any place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, occurring in connection with the conduct of business of a broker or dealer, and (iii) which is founded directly or indirectly, upon the provisions of the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, the Investment Company Act of 1940, the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, or any rule or regulation under any of said Acts; and (2) stipulates and agrees that any such civil suit or action may be commended by the service of process upon the Commission and the forwarding of a copy thereof as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, and that the service as aforesaid of any such process, pleadings, or other papers upon the Commission shall be taken and held in all courts to be as valid and binding as if due personal service thereof had been made.
(b) The required consent and power of attorney shall be furnished to the Commission within the following period of time:
(1) Each nonresident broker or dealer registered at the time this section becomes effective, and each nonresident general partner or managing agent of
an unincorporated broker or dealer registered at the time this section becomes effective, shall furnish such consent and power of attorney within 60 days after such date;
(2) Each broker or dealer applying for registration after the effective date of this section shall furnish, at the time of filing such application, all the consents and powers of attorney required to be furnished by such broker or dealer and by each general partner or managing agent thereof;
Provided, however,
That where an application for registration of a broker or dealer is pending at the time this section becomes effective such consents and powers of attorney shall be furnished within 30 days after this section becomes effective.
(3) Each broker or dealer registered or applying for registration who or which becomes a nonresident broker or dealer after the effective date of this section, and each general partner or managing agent, of an unincorporated broker or dealer registered or applying for registration, who becomes a nonresident after the effective date of this section, shall furnish such consent and power of attorney within 30 days thereafter.
(c) Service of any process, pleadings or other papers on the Commission under this part shall be made by delivering the requisite number of copies thereof to the Secretary of the Commission or to such other person as the Commission may authorize to act in its behalf. Whenever any process, pleadings or other papers as aforesaid are served upon the Commission, it shall promptly forward a copy thereof by registered or certified mail to the appropriate defendants at their last address of record filed with the Commission. The Commission shall be furnished a sufficient number of copies for such purpose, and one copy for its file.
(d) For purposes of this section the following definitions shall apply:
(1) The term
broker
shall have the meaning set out in section 3(a)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(2) The term
dealer
shall have the meaning set out in section 3(a)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(3) The term
managing agent
shall mean any person, including a trustee, who directs or manages or who participated in the directing or managing of the affairs of any unincoprorated organization or association which is not a partnership.
(4) The term
nonresident broker or dealer
shall mean (i) in the case of an individual, one who resides in or has his principal place of business in any place not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States; (ii) in the case of a corporation, one incorporated in or having its principal place of business in any place not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States; (iii) in the case of a partnership or other unincoporated organization or association, one having its principal place of business in any place not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
(5) A general partner or managing agent of a broker or dealer shall be deemed to be a nonresident if he resides in any place not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
(Sec. 319, 53 Stat. 1173, secs. 38, 211, 54 Stat. 641, 855; 15 U.S.C. 77sss, 80a-37, 80b-11)
[18 FR 2578, May 2, 1953, as amended at 23 FR 9691, Dec. 16, 1958; 29 FR 16982, Dec. 11, 1964. Redesignated at 30 FR 11851, Sept. 16, 1965]
§ 240.15b1-6
Notice to brokers and dealers of requirements regarding lost securityholders and unresponsive payees.
Brokers and dealers are hereby notified of Rule 17Ad-17 (§ 240.17Ad-17), which addresses certain requirements with respect to lost securityholders and unresponsive payees that may be applicable to them.
[78 FR 4783, Jan. 23, 2013]
§ 240.15b2-2
Inspection of newly registered brokers and dealers.
(a)
Definition.
For the purpose of this section the term
applicable financial responsibility rules
shall include:
(1) Any rule adopted by the Commission pursuant to sections 8, 15(c)(3), 17(a), or 17(e)(1)(A) of the Act;
(2) Any rule adopted by the Commission relating to hypothecation or lending of customer securities;
(3) Any other rule adopted by the Commission relating to the protection of funds or securities; and
(4) Any rule adopted by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to section 15C(b)(1) of the Act.
(b) Each self-regulatory organization that has responsibility for examining a broker or dealer member (including members that are government securities brokers or government securities dealers registered pursuant to section 15C(a)(1)(A) of the Act) for compliance with applicable financial responsibility rules is authorized and directed to conduct an inspection of the member, within six months of the member's registration with the Commission, to determine whether the member is operating in conformity with applicable financial responsibility rules.
(c) The examining self-regulatory organization is further authorized and directed to conduct an inspection of the member no later than twelve months from the member's registration with the Commission, to determine whether the member is operating in conformity with all other applicable provisions of the Act and rules thereunder.
(d) In each case where the examining self-regulatory organization determines that a broker or dealer member has not commenced actual operations within six months of the member's registration with the Commission, it shall delay the inspection pursuant to this section until the second six month period from the member's registration with the Commission.
(e) No inspection need be conducted as provided for in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section if:
(1) The member was registered with the Commission prior to April 26, 1982;
(2) An inspection of the member has already been conducted by another self-regulatory organization pursuant to this section;
(3) An inspection of the member has already been conducted by the Commission pursuant to section 15(b)(2)(C) of the Act.; or
(4) The member is registered with the Commission pursuant to section 15(b)(11)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(11)(A)).
[47 FR 11269, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 16838, May 6, 1987; 53 FR 4121, Feb. 12, 1988; 66 FR 45147, Aug. 27, 2001]
§ 240.15b3-1
Amendments to application.
(a) If the information contained in any application for registration as a broker or dealer, or in any amendment thereto, is or becomes inaccurate for any reason, the broker or dealer shall promptly file with the Central Registration Depository (operated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.) an amendment on Form BD correcting such information.
(b) Every amendment filed with the Central Registration Depository pursuant to this section shall constitute a “report” filed with the Commission within the meaning of Sections 15(b), 17(a), 18(a), 32(a) (15 U.S.C. 78o(b), 78q(a), 78r(a), 78ff(a)) and other applicable provisions of the Act.
[58 FR 14, Jan. 4, 1993, as amended at 64 FR 25147, May 10, 1999; 64 FR 37593, July 12, 1999; 64 FR 42595, Aug. 5, 1999; 73 FR 4692, Jan. 28, 2008]
§ 240.15b5-1
Extension of registration for purposes of the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 after cancellation or revocation.
Commission revocation or cancellation of the registration of a broker or dealer pursuant to section 15(b) of the Act: (i) shall be effective for all purposes, except as hereinafter provided, on the date of the order of revocation or cancellation or, if such order is stayed, on the date the stay is terminated; and (ii) shall be effective six months after the date of the order of revocation or cancellation (or, if such order is stayed, the date the stay is terminated) with respect to a broker's or dealer's registration status as a member within the meaning of Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 for purposes of the application of sections 5, 6, and 7 thereof to customer claims arising prior to the date of the order of revocation or cancellation (or, if such order is stayed, the date the stay is terminated).
[39 FR 37485, Oct. 22, 1974]
§ 240.15b6-1
Withdrawal from registration.
(a) Notice of withdrawal from registration as a broker or dealer pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Act shall be filed on Form BDW (17 CFR 249.501a) in accordance with the instructions contained therein. Every notice of withdrawal from registration as a broker or
dealer shall be filed with the Central Registration Depository (operated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.) in accordance with applicable filing requirements. Prior to filing a notice of withdrawal from registration on Form BDW (17 CFR 249.501a), a broker or dealer shall amend Form BD (17 CFR 249.501) in accordance with § 240.15b3-1(a) to update any inaccurate information.
(b) A notice of withdrawal from registration filed by a broker or dealer pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)) shall become effective for all matters (except as provided in this paragraph (b) and in paragraph (c) of this section) on the 60th day after the filing thereof with the Commission, within such longer period of time as to which such broker or dealer consents or which the Commission by order may determine as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, or within such shorter period of time as the Commission may determine. If a notice of withdrawal from registration is filed with the Commission at any time subsequent to the date of the issuance of a Commission order instituting proceedings pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)) to censure, place limitations on the activities, functions or operations of, or suspend or revoke the registration of, such broker or dealer, or if prior to the effective date of the notice of withdrawal pursuant to this paragraph (b), the Commission institutes such a proceeding or a proceeding to impose terms or conditions upon such withdrawal, the notice of withdrawal shall not become effective pursuant to this paragraph (b) except at such time and upon such terms and conditions as the Commission deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(c) With respect to a broker's or dealer's registration status as a member within the meaning of Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 (15 U.S.C. 78ccc(a)(2)) for purposes of the application of Sections 5, 6, and 7 (15 U.S.C. 78eee, 78fff, and 78fff-1) thereof to customer claims arising prior to the effective date of withdrawal pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the effective date of a broker's or dealer's withdrawal from registration pursuant to this paragraph (c) shall be six months after the effective date of withdrawal pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section or such shorter period of time as the Commission may determine.
(d) Every notice of withdrawal filed with the Central Registration Depository pursuant to this section shall constitute a “report” filed with the Commission within the meaning of Sections 15(b), 17(a), 18(a), 32(a) (15 U.S.C. 78o(b), 78q(a), 78r(a), 78ff(a)) and other applicable provisions of the Act.
(e) The Commission, by order, may exempt any broker or dealer from the filing requirements provided in Form BDW (17 CFR 249.501a) under conditions that differ from the filing instructions contained in Form BDW.
[64 FR 25147, May 10, 1999, as amended at 64 FR 42595, Aug. 5, 1999; 73 FR 4692, Jan. 28, 2008]
§ 240.15b7-1
Compliance with qualification requirements of self-regulatory organizations.
No registered broker or dealer shall effect any transaction in, or induce the purchase or sale of, any security unless any natural person associated with such broker or dealer who effects or is involved in effecting such transaction is registered or approved in accordance with the standards of training, experience, competence, and other qualification standards (including but not limited to submitting and maintaining all required forms, paying all required fees, and passing any required examinations) established by the rules of any national securities exchange or national securities association of which such broker or dealer is a member or under the rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (if it is subject to the rules of that organization).
[58 FR 27658, May 11, 1993]
§ 240.15b7-3T
Operational capability in a Year 2000 environment.
(a) This section applies to every broker or dealer registered pursuant to Section 15 of the Act, (15 U.S.C. 78o) that uses computers in the conduct of its business as a broker or dealer. If you have a material Year 2000 problem,
then you do not have operational capability within the meaning of Section 15(b)(7) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(7)).
(b)(1) You have a material Year 2000 problem under paragraph (a) of this section if, at any time on or after August 31, 1999:
(i) Any of your mission critical computer systems incorrectly identifies any date in the Year 1999 or the Year 2000; and
(ii) The error impairs or, if uncorrected, is likely to impair, any of your mission critical systems.
(2) You will be presumed to have a material Year 2000 problem if, at any time on or after August 31, 1999, you:
(i) Do not have written procedures reasonably designed to identify, assess, and remediate any Year 2000 problems in mission critical systems under your control;
(ii) Have not verified your Year 2000 remediation efforts through reasonable internal testing of mission critical systems under your control;
(iii) Have not verified your Year 2000 remediation efforts by satisfying Year 2000 testing requirements imposed by self-regulatory organizations to which you are subject; or
(iv) Have not remediated all exceptions related to your mission critical systems contained in any independent public accountant's report prepared on your behalf pursuant to § 240.17a-5(e)(5)(vi).
(c) If you have or are presumed to have a material Year 2000 problem, you must immediately notify the Commission and your designated examining authority of the problem. You must send this notice to the Commission by overnight delivery to the Division of Market Regulation, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549-6628 Attention: Y2K Compliance.
(d)(1) If you are a broker or dealer that is not operationally capable because you have or are presumed to have a material Year 2000 problem, you may not, on or after August 31, 1999:
(i) Effect any transaction in, or induce the purchase or sale of, any security; or
(ii) Receive or hold customer funds or securities, or carry customer accounts.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(1) of this section, you may continue to effect transactions in, or induce the purchase or sale of, a security, receive or hold customer funds or securities, or carry customer accounts:
(i) Until December 1, 1999, if you have submitted a certificate to the Commission in compliance with paragraph (e) of this section; or
(ii) Solely to the extent necessary to effect an orderly cessation or transfer of these functions.
(e)(1)(i) If you are a broker or dealer that is not operationally capable because you have or are presumed to have a material Year 2000 problem, you may, in addition to providing the Commission the notice required by paragraph (c) of this section, provide the Commission and your designated examining authority a certificate signed by your chief executive officer (or an individual with similar authority) stating:
(A) You are in the process of remediating your material Year 2000 problem;
(B) You have scheduled testing of your affected mission critical systems to verify that the material Year 2000 problem has been remediated, and specify the testing dates;
(C) The date by which you anticipate completing remediation of the material Year 2000 problem in your mission critical systems, and will therefore be operationally capable; and
(D) Based on inquiries and to the best of the chief executive officer's knowledge, you do not anticipate that the existence of the material Year 2000 problem in your mission critical systems will impair your ability, depending on the nature of your business, to ensure prompt and accurate processing of securities transactions, including order entry, execution, comparison, allocation, clearance and settlement of securities transactions, the maintenance of customer accounts, or the delivery of funds and securities; and you anticipate that the steps referred to in paragraphs (e)(1)(i)(A) through (C) of this section will result in remedying the material Year 2000 problem on or before November 15, 1999.
(ii) If the information contained in any certificate provided to the Commission pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section is or becomes misleading
or inaccurate for any reason, you must promptly file an updated certificate correcting such information. In addition to the information contained in the certificate, you may provide the Commission with any other information necessary to establish that your mission critical systems will not have material Year 2000 problems on or after November 15, 1999.
(2) If you have submitted a certificate pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section, you must submit a certificate to the Commission and your designated examining authority signed by your chief executive officer (or an individual with similar authority) on or before November 15, 1999, stating that, based on inquiries and to the best of the chief executive officer's knowledge, you have remediated your Year 2000 problem or that you will cease operations. This certificate must be sent to the Commission by overnight delivery to the Division of Market Regulation, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549-6628 Attention: Y2K Compliance.
(f) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(2) of this section, you must comply with the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section if you have been so ordered by the Commission or by a court.
(g) For the purposes of this section:
(1) The term
mission critical system
means any system that is necessary, depending on the nature of your business, to ensure prompt and accurate processing of securities transactions, including order entry, execution, comparison, allocation, clearance and settlement of securities transactions, the maintenance of customer accounts, and the delivery of funds and securities; and
(2) The term
customer
includes a broker or dealer.
(h) This temporary section will expire on July 1, 2001.
[64 FR 42028, Aug. 3, 1999, as amended at 73 FR 32227, June 5, 2008]
§ 240.15b9-1
Exemption for certain exchange members.
Any broker or dealer required by section 15(b)(8) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
(b)(8)) to become a member of a registered national securities association shall be exempt from such requirement if it:
(a) Is a member of a national securities exchange;
(b) Carries no customer accounts; and
(c) Effects transactions in securities solely on a national securities exchange of which it is a member, except that with respect to this paragraph (c):
(1) A broker or dealer may effect transactions in securities otherwise than on a national securities exchange of which the broker or dealer is a member that result solely from orders that are routed by a national securities exchange of which the broker or dealer is a member to comply with § 242.611 of this chapter or the Options Order Protection and Locked/Crossed Market Plan; or
(2) A broker or dealer may effect transactions in securities otherwise than on a national securities exchange of which the broker or dealer is a member, with or through another registered broker or dealer, that are solely for the purpose of executing the stock leg of a stock-option order. A broker or dealer seeking to rely on this exception shall establish, maintain and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure and demonstrate that such transactions are solely for the purpose of executing the stock leg of a stock-option order. Such broker or dealer shall preserve a copy of its policies and procedures in a manner consistent with § 240.17a-4 until three years after the date the policies and procedures are replaced with updated policies and procedures.
[88 FR 61893, Sept. 7, 2023]
§ 240.15b9-2
Exemption from SRO membership for OTC derivatives dealers.
An OTC derivatives dealer, as defined in § 240.3b-12, shall be exempt from any requirement under section 15(b)(8) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(8)) to become a member of a registered national securities association.
[63 FR 59397, Nov. 3, 1998]
§ 240.15b11-1
Registration by notice of security futures product broker-dealers.
(a) A broker or dealer may register by notice pursuant to section
15(b)(11)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(11)(A)) if it:
(1) Is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a futures commission merchant or an introducing broker, as those terms are defined in the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1,
et seq.
), respectively;
(2) Is a member of the National Futures Association or another national securities association registered under section 15A(k) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-3(k)); and
(3) Is not required to register as a broker or dealer in connection with transactions in securities other than security futures products.
(b) A broker or dealer registering by notice pursuant to section 15(b)(11)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(11)(A)) must file Form BD-N (17 CFR 249.501b) in accordance with the instructions to the form. A broker or dealer registering by notice pursuant to this section must indicate where appropriate on Form BD-N that it satisfies all of the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) If the information contained in any notice of registration filed on Form BD-N (17 CFR 249.501b) pursuant to this section is or becomes inaccurate for any reason, the broker or dealer shall promptly file an amendment on Form BD-N correcting such information.
(d) An application for registration by notice, and any amendments thereto, that are filed on Form BD-N (17 CFR 249.501b) pursuant to this section will be considered a “report” filed with the Commission for purposes of sections 15(b), 17(a), 18(a), 32(a) (15 U.S.C. 78o(b), 78q(a), 78r(a), 78ff(a)) and other applicable provisions of the Act.
[66 FR 45146, Aug. 27, 2001]

# Rules Relating to Over-the-Counter Markets
§ 240.15c1-1
Definitions.
As used in any rule adopted pursuant to section 15(c)(1) of the Act:
(a) The term
customer
shall not include a broker or dealer or a municipal securities dealer; provided, however, that the term “customer” shall include a municipal securities dealer (other than a broker or dealer) with respect to transactions in securities other than municipal securities.
(b) The term
the completion of the transaction
means:
(1) In the case of a customer who purchases a security through or from a broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer, except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the time when such customer pays the broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer any part of the purchase price, or, if payment is effected by a bookkeeping entry, the time when such bookkeeping entry is made by the broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer for any part of the purchase price;
(2) In the case of a customer who purchases a security through or from a broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer and who makes payment therefor prior to the time when payment is requested or notification is given that payment is due, the time when such broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer delivers the security to or into the account of such customer;
(3) In the case of a customer who sells a security through or to a broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, if the security is not in the custody of the broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer at the time of sale, the time when the security is delivered to the broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer, and if the security is in the custody of the broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer at the time of sale, the time when the broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer transfers the security from the account of such customer;
(4) In the case of a customer who sells a security through or to a broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer and who delivers such security to such broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer prior to the time when delivery is requested or notification is given that delivery is due, the time when such broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer makes payment to or into the account of such customer.
[41 FR 22825, June 7, 1976]
§ 240.15c1-2
Fraud and misrepresentation.
(a) The term
manipulative, deceptive, or other fraudulent device or contrivance,
as used in section 15(c)(1) of the Act (section 2, 52 Stat. 1075; 15 U.S.C. 78
o
(c)(1), is hereby defined to include any act, practice, or course of business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon any person.
(b) The term
manipulative, deceptive, or other fraudulent device or contrivance,
as used in section 15(c)(1) of the Act, is hereby defined to include any untrue statement of a material fact and any omission to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in the light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading, which statement or omission is made with knowledge or reasonable grounds to believe that it is untrue or misleading.
(c) The scope of this section shall not be limited by any specific definitions of the term “manipulative, deceptive, or other fraudulent device or contrivance” contained in other rules adopted pursuant to section 15(c)(1) of the act.
(Sec. 2, 52 Stat. 1075; 15 U.S.C. 78
o
)

# Cross Reference:
For regulation prohibiting employment of manipulative and deceptive devices as such term is used in section 15 of the Act, by any broker or dealer, see § 240.10b-3.
[13 FR 8205, Dec. 22, 1948]
§ 240.15c1-3
Misrepresentation by brokers, dealers and municipal securities dealers as to registration.
The term
manipulative, deceptive, or other fraudulent device or contrivance,
as used in section 15(c)(1) of the Act, is hereby defined to include any representation by a broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer that the registration of a broker or dealer, pursuant to section 15(b) of the Act, or the registration of a municipal securities dealer pursuant to section 15B(a) of the Act, or the failure of the Commission to deny or revoke such registration, indicates in any way that the Commission has passed upon or approved the financial standing, business, or conduct of such registered broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer or the merits of any security or any transaction or transactions therein.
[41 FR 22825, June 7, 1976]
§ 240.15c1-4
[Reserved]
§ 240.15c1-5
Disclosure of control.
The term
manipulative, deceptive, or other fraudulent device or contrivance,
as used in section 15(c)(1) of the Act, is hereby defined to include any act of any broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer controlled by, controlling, or under common control with, the issuer of any security, designed to effect with or for the account of a customer any transaction in, or to induce the purchase or sale by such customer of, such security unless such broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer, before entering into any contract with or for such customer for the purchase or sale of such security, discloses to such customer the existence of such control, and unless such disclosure, if not made in writing, is supplemented by the giving or sending of written disclosure at or before the completion of the transaction.
[41 FR 22825, June 7, 1976]
§ 240.15c1-6
Disclosure of interest in distribution.
The term
manipulative, deceptive, or other fraudulent device or contrivance,
as used in section 15(c)(1) of the Act, is hereby defined to include any act of any broker who is acting for a customer or for both such customer and some other person, or of any dealer or municipal securities dealer who receives or has promise of receiving a fee from a customer for advising such customer with respect to securities, designed to effect with or for the account of such customer any transaction in, or to induce the purchase or sale by such customer of, any security in the primary or secondary distribution of which such broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer is participating or is otherwise financially interested unless such broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer, at or before the completion of each such transaction gives or
sends to such customer written notification of the existence of such participation or interest.
[41 FR 22826, June 7, 1976]
§ 240.15c1-7
Discretionary accounts.
(a) The term
manipulative, deceptive, or other fraudulent device or contrivance,
as used in section 15(c) of the Act, is hereby defined to include any act of any broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer designed to effect with or for any customer's account in respect to which such broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer or his agent or employee is vested with any discretionary power any transactions or purchase or sale which are excessive in size or frequency in view of the financial resources and character of such account.
(b) The term
manipulative, deceptive, or other fraudulent device or contrivance,
as used in section 15(c)(1) of the Act, is hereby defined to include any act of any broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer designed to effect with or for any customer's account in respect to which such broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer or his agent or employee is vested with any discretionary power any transaction of purchase or sale unless immediately after effecting such transaction such broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer makes a record of such transaction which record includes the name of such customer, the name, amount and price of the security, and the date and time when such transaction took place.
[41 FR 22826, June 7, 1976]
§ 240.15c1-8
Sales at the market.
The term
manipulative, deceptive, or other fraudulent device or contrivance,
as used in section 15(c)(1) of the Act, is hereby defined to include any representation made to a customer by a broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer who is participating or otherwise financially interested in the primary or secondary distribution of any security which is not admitted to trading on a national securities exchange that such security is being offered to such customer “at the market” or at a price related to the market price unless such broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer knows or has reasonable grounds to believe that a market for such security exists other than that made, created, or controlled by him, or by any person for whom he is acting or with whom he is associated in such distribution, or by any person controlled by, controlling or under common control with him.
[41 FR 22826, June 7, 1976]
§ 240.15c1-9
Use of pro forma balance sheets.
The term
manipulative, deceptive, or other fraudulent device or contrivance,
as used in section 15(c)(1) of the Act, is hereby defined to include the use of financial statements purporting to give effect to the receipt and application of any part of the proceeds from the sale or exchange of securities, unless the assumptions upon which each such financial statement is based are clearly set forth as part of the caption to each such statement in type at least as large as that used generally in the body of the statement.
(Sec. 2, 52 Stat. 1075; 15 U.S.C. 78
o
)
[13 FR 8205, Dec. 22, 1948]
§ 240.15c2-1
Hypothecation of customers' securities.
(a)
General provisions.
The term
fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative act or practice,
as used in section 15(c) (2) of the Act, is hereby defined to include the direct or indirect hypothecation by a broker or dealer, or his arranging for or permitting, directly or indirectly, the continued hypothecation of any securities carried for the account of any customer under circumstances:
(1) That will permit the commingling of securities carried for the account of any such customer with securities carried for the account of any other customer, without first obtaining the written consent of each such customer to such hypothecation;
(2) That will permit such securities to be commingled with securities carried for the account of any person other than a bona fide customer of such broker or dealer under a lien for a loan made to such broker or dealer; or
(3) That will permit securities carried for the account of customers to be hypothecated, or subjected to any lien
or liens or claims or claims of the pledgee or pledgees, for a sum which exceeds the aggregate indebtedness of all customers in respect of securities carried for their accounts; except that this clause shall not be deemed to be violated by reason of an excess arising on any day through the reduction of the aggregate indebtedness of customers on such day, provided that funds or securities in an amount sufficient to eliminate such excess are paid or placed in transfer to pledgees for the purpose of reducing the sum of the liens or claims to which securities carried for the account of customers are subject as promptly as practicable after such reduction occurs, but before the lapse of one half hour after the commencement of banking hours on the next banking day at the place where the largest principal amount of loans of such broker or dealer are payable and, in any event, before such broker or dealer on such day has obtained or increased any bank loan collateralized by securities carried for the account of customers.
(b)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section:
(1) The term
customer
shall not include any general or special partner or any director or officer of such broker or dealer, or any participant, as such, in any joint, group or syndicate account with such broker or dealer or with any partner, officer or director thereof. The term also shall not include a counterparty who has delivered collateral to an OTC derivatives dealer pursuant to a transaction in an eligible OTC derivative instrument, or pursuant to the OTC derivatives dealer's cash management securities activities or ancillary portfolio management securities activities, and who has received a prominent written notice from the OTC derivatives dealer that:
(i) Except as otherwise agreed in writing by the OTC derivatives dealer and the counterparty, the dealer may repledge or otherwise use the collateral in its business;
(ii) In the event of the OTC derivatives dealer's failure, the counterparty will likely be considered an unsecured creditor of the dealer as to that collateral;
(iii) The Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 (15 U.S.C 78aaa through 78lll) does not protect the counterparty; and
(iv) The collateral will not be subject to the requirements of § 240.8c-1, § 240.15c2-1, § 240.15c3-2, or § 240.15c3-3;
(2) The term
securities carried for the account of any customer
shall be deemed to mean:
(i) Securities received by or on behalf of such broker or dealer for the account of any customer;
(ii) Securities sold and appropriated by such broker or dealer to a customer, except that if such securities were subject to a lien when appropriated to a customer they shall not be deemed to be “securities carried for the account of any customer” pending their release from such lien as promptly as practicable;
(iii) Securities sold, but not appropriated, by such broker or dealer to a customer who has made any payment therefor, to the extent that such broker or dealer owns and has received delivery of securities of like kind, except that if such securities were subject to a lien when such payment was made they shall not be deemed to be “securities carried for the account of any customer” pending their release from such lien as promptly as practicable;
(3)
Aggregate indebtedness
shall not be deemed to be reduced by reason of uncollected items. In computing aggregate indebtedness, related guaranteed and guarantor accounts shall be treated as a single account and considered on a consolidated basis, and balances in accounts carrying both long and short positions shall be adjusted by treating the market value of the securities required to cover such short positions as though such market value were a debit; and
(4) In computing the sum of the liens or claims to which securities carried for the account of customers of a broker or dealer are subject, any rehypothecation of such securities by another broker or dealer who is subject to this section or to § 240.8c-1 shall be disregarded.
(c)
Exemption for cash accounts.
The provisions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall not apply to any
hypothecation of securities carried for the account of a customer in a special cash account within the meaning of 12 CFR 220.4(c):
Provided,
That at or before the completion of the transaction of purchase of such securities for, or of sale of such securities to, such customer, written notice is given or sent to such customer disclosing that such securities are or may be hypothecated under circumstances which will permit the commingling thereof with securities carried for the account of other customers. The term
the completion of the transaction
shall have the meaning given to such term by § 240.15c1-1(b).
(d)
Exemption for clearing house liens.
The provisions of paragraphs (a)(2), (a)(3), and (f) of this section shall not apply to any lien or claim of the clearing corporation, or similar department or association, of a national securities exchange or a registered national securities association, for a loan made and to be repaid on the same calendar day, which is incidental to the clearing of transactions in securities or loans through such corporation, department, or association:
Provided, however,
That for the purpose of paragraph (a)(3) of this section, “aggregate indebtedness of all customers in respect of securities carried for their accounts” shall not include indebtedness in respect of any securities subject to any lien or claim exempted by this paragraph.
(e)
Exemption for certain liens on securities of noncustomers.
The provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall not be deemed to prevent such broker or dealer from permitting securities not carried for the account of a customer to be subjected (1) to a lien for a loan made against securities carried for the account of customers, or (2) to a lien for a loan made and to be repaid on the same calendar day. For the purpose of this exemption, a loan shall be deemed to be “made against securities carried for the account of customers” if only securities carried for the account of customers are used to obtain or to increase such loan or as substitutes for other securities carried for the account of customers.
(f)
Notice and certification requirements.
No person subject to this section shall hypothecate any security carried for the account of a customer unless, at or prior to the time of each such hypothecation, he gives written notice to the pledgee that the security pledged is carried for the account of a customer and that such hypothecation does not contravene any provision of this section, except that in the case of an omnibus account the broker or dealer for whom such account is carried may furnish a signed statement to the person carrying such account that all securities carried therein by such broker or dealer will be securities carried for the account of his customers and that the hypothecation thereof by such broker or dealer will not contravene any provision of this section. The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to any hypothecation of securities under any lien or claim of a pledgee securing a loan made and to be repaid on the same calendar day.
(g) The fact that securities carried for the accounts of customers and securities carried for the accounts of others are represented by one or more certificates in the custody of a clearing corporation or other subsidiary organization of either a national securities exchange or of a registered national securities association, or of a custodian bank, in accordance with a system for the central handling of securities established by a national securities exchange or a registered national securities association, pursuant to which system the hypothecation of such securities is effected by bookkeeping entries without physical delivery of such securities, shall not, in and of itself, result in a commingling of securities prohibited by paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section, whenever a participating member, broker or dealer hypothecates securities in accordance with such system:
Provided, however,
That (1) any such custodian of any securities held by or for such system shall agree that it will not for any reason, including the assertion of any claim, right or lien of any kind, refuse or refrain from promptly delivering any such securities (other than securities then hypothecated in accordance with such system) to such clearing corporation or other subsidiary organization or as directed by it, except that nothing in such agreement shall be deemed to require the custodian to deliver any securities
in contravention of any notice of levy, seizure or similar notice, or order or judgment, issued or directed by a governmental agency or court, or officer thereof, having jurisdiction over such custodian, which on its face affects such securities; (2) such systems shall have safeguards in the handling, transfer and delivery of securities and provisions for fidelity bond coverage of the employees and agents of the clearing corporation or other subsidiary organization and for periodic examinations by independent public accountants; and (3) the provisions of this paragraph (g) shall not be effective with respect to any particular system unless the agreement required by paragraph (g)(1) of this section and the safeguards and provisions required by paragraph (g)(2) of this section shall have been deemed adequate by the Commission for the protection of investors, and unless any subsequent amendments to such agreement, safeguards or provisions shall have been deemed adequate by the Commission for the protection of investors.
(Secs. 8, 15, 48 Stat. 888, 895, sec. 2, 52 Stat. 1075; 15 U.S.C. 78b. 78
o
)

# Cross Reference:
For interpretative releases applicable to § 240.15c2-1, see Nos. 2690 and 2822 in tabulation, part 241 of this chapter.
[13 FR 8205, Dec. 22, 1948, as amended at 31 FR 7741, June 1, 1966; 37 FR 73, Jan. 5, 1972; 63 FR 59397, Nov. 3, 1998]
§ 240.15c2-3
[Reserved]
§ 240.15c2-4
Transmission or maintenance of payments received in connection with underwritings.
It shall constitute a “fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative act or practice” as used in section 15(c)(2) of the Act, for any broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer participating in any distribution of securities, other than a firm-commitment underwriting, to accept any part of the sale price of any security being distributed unless:
(a) The money or other consideration received is promptly transmitted to the persons entitled thereto; or
(b) If the distribution is being made on an “all-or-none” basis, or on any other basis which contemplates that payment is not to be made to the person on whose behalf the distribution is being made until some further event or contingency occurs, (1) the money or other consideration received is promptly deposited in a separate bank account, as agent or trustee for the persons who have the beneficial interests therein, until the appropriate event or contingency has occurred, and then the funds are promptly transmitted or returned to the persons entitled thereto, or (2) all such funds are promptly transmitted to a bank which has agreed in writing to hold all such funds in escrow for the persons who have the beneficial interests therein and to transmit or return such funds directly to the persons entitled thereto when the appropriate event or contingency has occurred.
[41 FR 22826, June 7, 1976]
§ 240.15c2-5
Disclosure and other requirements when extending or arranging credit in certain transactions.
(a) It shall constitute a “fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative act or practice” as used in section 15(c)(2) of the Act for any broker or dealer to offer or sell any security to, or to attempt to induce the purchase of any security by, any person, in connection with which such broker or dealer directly or indirectly offers to extend any credit to or to arrange any loan for such person, or extends to or participates in arranging any loan for such person, unless such broker or dealer, before any purchase, loan or other related element of the transaction is entered into:
(1) Delivers to such person a written statement setting forth the exact nature and extent of (i) such person's obligations under the particular loan arrangement, including among other things, the specific charges which such person will incur under such loan in each period during which the loan may continue or be extended, (ii) the risks and disadvantages which such person will incur in the entire transaction, including the loan arrangement, (iii) all commissions, discounts, and other remuneration received and to be received in connection with the entire transaction including the loan arrangment, by the broker or dealer, by any person controlling, controlled by, or under
common control with the broker or dealer, and by any other person participating in the transaction;
Provided, however,
That the broker or dealer shall be deemed to be in compliance with this paragraph if the customer, before any purchase, loan, or other related element of the transaction is entered into in a manner legally binding upon the customer, receives a statement from the lender, or receives a prospectus or offering circular from the broker or dealer, which statement, prospectus or offering circular contains the information required by this paragraph; and
(2) Obtains from such person information concerning his financial situation and needs, reasonably determines that the entire transaction, including the loan arrangement, is suitable for such person, and retains in his files a written statement setting forth the basis upon which the broker or dealer made such determination;
Provided, however,
That the written statement referred to in this paragraph must be made available to the customer on request.
(b) This section shall not apply to any credit extended or any loan arranged by any broker or dealer subject to the provisions of Regulation T (12 CFR part 220) if such credit is extended or such loan is arranged, in compliance with the requirements of such regulation, only for the purpose of purchasing or carrying the security offered or sold:
Provided, however,
That notwithstanding this paragraph, the provisions of paragraph (a) shall apply in full force with respect to any transaction involving the extension of or arrangement for credit by a broker or dealer (i) in a special insurance premium funding account within the meaning of section 4(k) of Regulation T (12 CFR 220.4(k)) or (ii) in compliance with the terms of § 240.3a12-5 of this chapter.
(c) This section shall not apply to any offer to extend credit or arrange any loan, or to any credit extended or loan arranged, in connection with any offer or sale, or attempt to induce the purchase, of any municipal security.
(d) This section shall not apply to a transaction involving the extension of credit by an OTC derivatives dealer, as defined in § 240.3b-12, if the transaction is exempt from the provisions of Section 7(c) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78g(c)) pursuant to § 240.36a1-1.
(Sec. 3(a)(12), 48 Stat. 882, as amended, 84 Stat. 718, 1435, 1499 (15 U.S.C. 78c(12)); sec. 7(c), 48 Stat. 886, as amended, 82 Stat. 452 (15 U.S.C. 78g(c)); sec. 11(d)(1), 48 Stat. 891 as amended, 68 Stat. 686 (15 U.S.C. 78k(d)(1)); sec. 15(c), 48 Stat. 895, as amended, 52 Stat. 1075, 84 Stat. 1653 (15 U.S.C. 78
o
(c)); sec. 23(a), 48 Stat. 901, as amended, 49 Stat. 704, 1379 (15 U.S.C. 78w(a))
[40 FR 6646, Feb. 13, 1975, as amended at 41 FR 22826, June 7, 1976; 63 FR 59397, Nov. 3, 1998]
§ 240.15c2-6
[Reserved]
§ 240.15c2-7
Identification of quotations.
(a) It shall constitute an attempt to induce the purchase or sale of a security by making a “fictitious quotation” within the meaning of section 15(c)(2) of the Act, for any broker or dealer to furnish or submit, directly or indirectly, any quotation for a security (other than a municipal security) to an inter-dealer quotation system unless:
(1) The inter-dealer-quotation-system is informed, if such is the case, that the quotation is furnished or submitted;
(i) By a correspondent broker or dealer for the account or in behalf of another broker or dealer, and if so, the identity of such other broker or dealer; and/or
(ii) In furtherance of one or more other arrangements (including a joint account, guarantee of profit, guarantee against loss, commission, markup, markdown, indication of interest and accommodation arrangement) between or among brokers or dealers, and if so, the identity of each broker or dealer participating in any such arrangement or arrangements:
Provided, however,
That the provisions of this subparagraph shall not apply if only one of the brokers or dealers participating in any such arrangment or arrangements furnishes or submits a quotation with respect to the security to an inter-dealer-quotation-system.
(2) The inter-dealer-quotation-system to which the quotation is furnished or submitted makes it a general practice to disclose with each published quotation, by appropriate symbol or
otherwise, the category or categories (paragraph (a)(1)(i) and/or (ii) of this section) in furtherance of which the quotation is submitted, and the identities of all other brokers and dealers referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section where such information is supplied to the inter-dealer-quotation-system under the provisions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b) It shall constitute an attempt to induce the purchase or sale of a security by making a “fictitious quotation,” within the meaning of section 15(c)(2) of the Act, for a broker or dealer to enter into any correspondent or other arrangement (including a joint account, guarantee of profit, guarantee against loss, commission, markup, markdown, indication of interest and accommodation arrangement) in furtherance of which two or more brokers or dealers furnish or submit quotations with respect to a particular security unless such broker or dealer informs all brokers or dealers furnishing or submitting such quotations of the existence of such correspondent and other arrangments, and the identity of the parties thereto.
(c) For purposes of this section:
(1) The term
inter-dealer-quotation-system
shall mean any system of general circulation to brokers and dealers which regularly disseminates quotations of identified brokers or dealers but shall not include a quotation sheet prepared and distributed by a broker or dealer in the regular course of his business and containing only quotations of such broker or dealer.
(2) The term
quotation
shall mean any bid or offer, or any indication of interest (such as OW or BW) in any bid or offer.
(3) The term
correspondent
shall mean a broker or dealer who has a direct line of communication to another broker or dealer located in a different city or geographic area.
(Sec. 15, 48 Stat. 895, as amended; 15 U.S.C. 78o)
[29 FR 11530, Aug. 12, 1964, as amended at 41 FR 22826, June 7, 1976]
§ 240.15c2-8
Delivery of prospectus.
(a) It shall constitute a deceptive act or practice, as those terms are used in section 15(c)(2) of the Act, for a broker or dealer to participate in a distribution of securities with respect to which a registration statement has been filed under the Securities Act of 1933 unless he complies with the requirements set forth in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section. For the purposes of this section, a broker or dealer participating in the distribution shall mean any underwriter and any member or proposed member of the selling group.
(b) In connection with an issue of securities, the issuer of which has not previously been required to file reports pursuant to sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, unless such issuer has been exempted from the requirement to file reports thereunder pursuant to section 12(h) of the Act, such broker or dealer shall deliver a copy of the preliminary prospectus to any person who is expected to receive a confirmation of sale at least 48 hours prior to the sending of such confirmation. This paragraph (b) does not apply with respect to asset-backed securities (as defined in § 229.1101 of this chapter) that meet the requirements of General Instruction I.B.5 of Form S-3 (§ 239.13 of this chapter). Provided, however, this paragraph (b) shall apply to all issuances of asset-backed securities (as defined in § 229.1101(c) of this chapter) regardless of whether the issuer has previously been required to file reports pursuant to sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or exempted from the requirement to file reports thereunder pursuant to section 12(h) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78l).
(c) Such broker or dealer shall take reasonable steps to furnish to any person who makes written request for a preliminary prospectus between the filing date and a reasonable time prior to the effective date of the registration statement to which such prospectus relates, a copy of the latest preliminary prospectus on file with the Commission. Reasonable steps shall include receiving an undertaking by the managing underwriter or underwriters to send such copy to the address given in the requests.
(d) Such broker or dealer shall take reasonable steps to comply promptly with the written request of any person
for a copy of the final prospectus relating to such securities during the period between the effective date of the registration statement and the later of either the termination of such distribution, or the expiration of the applicable 40- or 90-day period under section 4(3) of the Securities Act of 1933. Reasonable steps shall include receiving an undertaking by the managing underwriter or underwriters to send such copy to the address given in the requests. (The 40-day and 90-day periods referred to above shall be deemed to apply for purposes of this rule irrespective of the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (d) of § 230.174 of this chapter).
(e) Such broker or dealer shall take reasonable steps (1) to make available a copy of the preliminary prospectus relating to such securities to each of his associated persons who is expected, prior to the effective date, to solicit customers' order for such securities before the making of any such solicitation by such associated persons and (2) to make available to each such associated person a copy of any amended preliminary prospectus promptly after the filing thereof.
(f) Such broker or dealer shall take reasonable steps to make available a copy of the final prospectus relating to such securities to each of his associated persons who is expected, after the effective date, to solicit customers orders for such securities prior to the making of any such solicitation by such associated persons, unless a preliminary prospectus which is substantially the same as the final prospectus except for matters relating to the price of the stocks, has been so made available.
(g) If the broker or dealer is a managing underwriter of such distribution, he shall take reasonable steps to see to it that all other brokers or dealers participating in such distribution are promptly furnished with sufficient copies, as requested by them, of each preliminary prospectus, each amended preliminary prospectus and the final prospectus to enable them to comply with paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this section.
(h) If the broker or dealer is a managing underwriter of such distribution, he shall take reasonable steps to see that any broker or dealer participating in the distribution or trading in the registered security is furnished reasonable quantities of the final prospectus relating to such securities, as requested by him, in order to enable him to comply with the prospectus delivery requirements of section 5(b) (1) and (2) of the Securities Act of 1933.
(i) This section shall not require the furnishing of prospectuses in any state where such furnishing would be unlawful under the laws of such state:
Provided, however,
That this provision is not to be construed to relieve a broker or dealer from complying with the requirements of section 5(b)(1) and (2) of the Securities Act of 1933.
[35 FR 18457, Dec. 4, 1970, as amended at 47 FR 11470, Mar. 16, 1982; 53 FR 11845, Apr. 11, 1988; 60 FR 26622, May 17, 1995; 70 FR 1622, Jan. 7, 2005; 79 FR 57344, Sept. 24, 2014]
§ 240.15c2-11
Publication or submission of quotations without specified information.
(a)
Unlawful activity.
As a means reasonably designed to prevent fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative acts or practices, it shall be unlawful for:
(1)
Brokers or dealers.
A broker or dealer to publish any quotation for a security or, directly or indirectly, to submit any such quotation for publication, in any quotation medium, unless:
(i)(A) Such broker or dealer has in its records the documents and information specified in paragraph (b) of this section;
(B) Such documents and information specified in paragraph (b) of this section (excluding paragraphs (b)(5)(i)(N) through (P) of this section) are current and publicly available; and
(C) Based upon a review of the documents and information specified in paragraph (b) of this section, together with any other documents and information required by paragraph (c) of this section, such broker or dealer has a reasonable basis under the circumstances for believing that:
(
1
) The documents and information specified in paragraph (b) of this section are accurate in all material respects; and
(
2
) The sources of the documents and information specified in paragraph (b) of this section are reliable; or
(ii)(A) The quotation medium is a qualified interdealer quotation system that made a publicly available determination that it has performed the activities described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section; and
(B) Such quotation is published or submitted for publication within three business days after such qualified interdealer quotation system makes such publicly available determination.
(2)
Qualified interdealer quotation systems.
A qualified interdealer quotation system to make known to others the quotation of a broker or dealer that is published or submitted for publication pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, unless:
(i) Such qualified interdealer quotation system has in its records the documents and information specified in paragraph (b) of this section (excluding paragraphs (b)(5)(i)(N) through (P) of this section except where the qualified interdealer quotation system has knowledge or possession of this information);
(ii) Such documents and information specified in paragraph (b) of this section (excluding paragraphs (b)(5)(i)(N) through (P) of this section) are current and publicly available;
(iii) Based upon a review of the documents and information specified in paragraph (b) of this section (excluding paragraphs (b)(5)(i)(N) through (P) of this section, except where the qualified interdealer quotation system has knowledge or possession of this information), together with any other documents and information required by paragraph (c) of this section, such qualified interdealer quotation system has a reasonable basis under the circumstances for believing that:
(A) The documents and information specified in paragraph (b) of this section are accurate in all material respects; and
(B) The sources of the documents and information specified in paragraph (b) of this section are reliable; and
(iv) The qualified interdealer quotation system makes a publicly available determination that it has performed the activities described in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section; or
(3)
Qualified interdealer quotation systems or registered national securities Associations.
A qualified interdealer quotation system or registered national securities association to make a publicly available determination described in paragraph (f)(2)(iii)(B), (f)(3)(ii)(A), or (f)(7) of this section, unless such qualified interdealer quotation system or registered national securities association establishes, maintains, and enforces reasonably designed written policies and procedures to determine whether:
(i) The documents and information specified in paragraph (b) of this section are current and publicly available; and
(ii) The requirements of an exception under paragraph (f) of this section are met, if it makes a publicly available determination described in paragraph (f)(7) of this section.
(b)
Specified information.
(1) A copy of the prospectus specified by section 10(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 for an issuer that has filed a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, other than a registration statement on Form F-6, that became effective less than 90 calendar days prior to the day on which such broker or dealer publishes or submits the quotation to the quotation medium;
Provided,
That such registration statement has not thereafter been the subject of a stop order that is still in effect when the quotation is published or submitted; or
(2) A copy of the offering circular provided for under Regulation A (§§ 230.251 through 230.263 of this chapter) for an issuer that has filed an offering statement under Regulation A that was qualified less than 40 calendar days prior to the day on which such broker or dealer publishes or submits the quotation to the quotation medium;
Provided,
That the Regulation A exemption, with respect to such issuer, has not thereafter become subject to a suspension order that is still in effect when the quotation is published or submitted; or
(3) A current copy of:
(i) An annual report filed pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Act, together with any periodic and current reports that have been filed thereafter under
the Act by the issuer, except for current reports filed during the three business days prior to the publication or submission of the quotation;
Provided, however,
That, until such issuer has filed its first such annual report, the broker, dealer, or qualified interdealer quotation system has in its records a copy of the registration statement filed by the issuer under the Securities Act of 1933, other than a registration statement on Form F-6, that became effective within the prior 16 months, or a copy of any registration statement filed by the issuer under section 12 of the Act that became effective within the prior 16 months, together with any periodic and current reports filed thereafter under section 13 or 15(d) of the Act;
(ii) An annual report filed pursuant to Regulation A, together with any periodic and current reports filed thereafter under Regulation A by the issuer, except for current reports filed during the three business days prior to the publication or submission of the quotation;
Provided, however,
That, until such issuer has filed its first such annual report, the broker, dealer, or qualified interdealer quotation system has in its records a copy of the offering statement filed by the issuer under Regulation A, that was qualified within the prior 16 months, together with any periodic and current reports filed thereafter under Regulation A;
(iii) An annual report filed pursuant to Regulation Crowdfunding (§§ 227.100 through 227.503 of this chapter);
Provided, however,
that, until such issuer has filed its first such annual report, the broker, dealer, or qualified interdealer quotation system has in its records a copy of the Form C filed by the issuer under Regulation Crowdfunding within the prior 16 months, together with any Form C/A and Form C/U filed thereafter under Regulation Crowdfunding;
(iv) An annual statement referred to in section 12(g)(2)(G)(i) of the Act (in the case of an issuer required to file reports pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Act), together with any periodic and current reports filed thereafter under the Act by the issuer, except for current reports filed during the three business days prior to the publication or submission of the quotation;
Provided, however,
that, until such issuer has filed its first such annual statement, the broker, dealer, or qualified interdealer quotation system has in its records a copy of the registration statement filed by the issuer under the Securities Act of 1933, other than a registration statement on Form F-6, that became effective within the prior 16 months, or a copy of any registration statement filed by the issuer under section 12 of the Act, that became effective within the prior 16 months, together with any periodic and current reports filed thereafter under section 13 or 15(d) of the Act; or
(v) An annual statement referred to in section 12(g)(2)(G)(i) of the Act (in the case of an issuer of a security that falls within the provisions of section 12(g)(2)(G) of the Act); or
(4) A copy of the information that, since the first day of its most recently completed fiscal year, the issuer has published as required to establish the exemption from registration under section 12(g) of the Act pursuant to § 240.12g3-2(b) of this chapter, which the broker or dealer must make available upon the request of a person expressing an interest in a proposed transaction in the issuer's security with the broker or dealer, such as by providing the requesting person with appropriate instructions regarding how to obtain the information electronically; or
(5)(i) The following information, which must be (excluding paragraphs (b)(5)(i)(N) through (P) of this section) as of a date within 12 months prior to the publication or submission of the quotation, unless otherwise specified:
(A) The name of the issuer and any predecessors during the past five years;
(B) The address(es) of the issuer's principal executive office and of its principal place of business;
(C) The state of incorporation or registration of the issuer and of each of its predecessors (if any) during the past five years;
(D) The title, class, and ticker symbol (if assigned) of the security;
(E) The par or stated value of the security;
(F) The number of shares or total amount of the securities outstanding
as of the end of the issuer's most recent fiscal year;
(G) The name and address of the transfer agent;
(H) A description of the issuer's business;
(I) A description of products or services offered by the issuer;
(J) A description and extent of the issuer's facilities;
(K) The name and title of all company insiders;
(L) The issuer's most recent balance sheet (as of a date less than 16 months before the publication or submission of the quotation) and profit and loss and retained earnings statements (for the 12 months preceding the date of the most recent balance sheet);
(M) Similar financial information for such part of the two preceding fiscal years as the issuer or its predecessors has been in existence;
(N) Whether the broker or dealer or any associated person of the broker or dealer is affiliated, directly or indirectly, with the issuer;
(O) Whether the quotation is being published or submitted on behalf of any other broker or dealer and, if so, the name of such broker or dealer; and
(P) Whether the quotation is being submitted or published, directly or indirectly, by or on behalf of the issuer or a company insider and, if so, the name of such person and the basis for any exemption under the federal securities laws for any sales of such securities on behalf of such person.
(ii) The broker or dealer must make the documents and information specified in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section available upon the request of a person expressing an interest in a proposed transaction in the issuer's security with the broker or dealer, such as by providing the requesting person with appropriate instructions regarding how to obtain such publicly available documents and information electronically. If such information is made available to others upon request pursuant to this paragraph, such delivery, unless otherwise represented, shall not constitute a representation by such broker or dealer that such information is accurate but shall constitute a representation by such broker or dealer that the information is current in relation to the day the quotation is submitted, the broker or dealer has a reasonable basis under the circumstances for believing the information is accurate in all material respects, and the information was obtained from sources that the broker or dealer has a reasonable basis under the circumstances for believing are reliable. The documents and information specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section must be reviewed where paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section do not apply to such issuer. For purposes of compliance with paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) or (a)(2)(ii) of this section, the documents and information specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section must be reviewed for an issuer for which the documents and information specified in paragraph (b)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section regarding such issuer are not current.
(c)
Supplemental information.
With respect to any security the quotation of which is within the provisions of this section, the broker or dealer submitting or publishing such quotation, or any qualified interdealer quotation system that makes known to others the quotation of a broker or dealer pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section, shall have in its records the following documents and information:
(1) Records related to the submission or publication of such quotation, including the identity of the person or persons for whom the quotation is being published or submitted, whether such person or persons is the issuer or a company insider, and any information regarding the transactions provided to the broker, dealer, or qualified interdealer quotation system by such person or persons;
(2) A copy of any trading suspension order issued by the Commission pursuant to section 12(k) of the Act regarding any securities of the issuer or its predecessor (if any) during the 12 months preceding the date of the publication or submission of the quotation or a copy of the public release issued by the Commission announcing such trading suspension order; and
(3) A copy or a written record of any other material information (including adverse information) regarding the issuer that comes to the knowledge or possession of the broker, dealer, or
qualified interdealer quotation system before the publication or submission of the quotation.
(d)
Recordkeeping.
(1)(i) The following persons shall preserve for a period of not less than three years, the first two years in an easily accessible place, the documents and information required under paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, except for the documents and information that are available on the Commission's
Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System
(EDGAR):
(A) Any broker or dealer that publishes or submits a quotation pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section for a security; or
(B) Any qualified interdealer quotation system that makes known to others the quotation of a broker or dealer pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section for a security;
(ii) Any broker or dealer that publishes or submits a quotation pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section shall preserve for a period of not less than three years, the first two years in an easily accessible place, the name of the qualified interdealer quotation system that made a publicly available determination that it has performed the activities described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(2) The following persons shall preserve for a period of not less than three years, the first two years in an easily accessible place, the documents and information that demonstrate that the requirements for an exception under paragraph (f)(2), (3), (5), (6), or (7) of this section are met, except for the documents and information that are available on EDGAR:
(i) Any qualified interdealer quotation system or registered national securities association that makes a publicly available determination described in paragraph (f)(2)(iii)(B), (f)(3)(ii)(A), or (f)(7) of this section; and
(ii) Any broker or dealer that publishes or submits a quotation pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section;
Provided, however,
That any broker or dealer that relies on a publicly available determination described in paragraph (f)(2)(iii)(B) or (f)(3)(ii)(A) of this section shall preserve only a record of the name of the qualified interdealer quotation system or registered national securities association that determined whether the documents and information specified in paragraph (b) of this section are current and publicly available in addition to the documents and information that demonstrate that the other requirements of the exception provided in paragraph (f)(2) or (3), respectively, are met; and that any broker or dealer that relies on a publicly available determination described in paragraph (f)(7) of this section shall preserve only a record of the exception provided in paragraph (f)(1), (f)(3)(i), or (f)(4) or (5) for which the publicly available determination is made and the name of the qualified interdealer quotation system or registered national securities association that determined that the requirements of that exception are met.
(e)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Company insider
shall mean any officer or director of the issuer, or person that performs a similar function, or any person who is, directly or indirectly, the beneficial owner of more than 10 percent of the outstanding units or shares of any class of any equity security of the issuer.
(2)
Current
shall mean, for the documents and information specified in:
(i) Paragraph (b)(1), (2), (4), or (5) of this section, filed, published, or are as of a date in accordance with the time frames specified in the applicable paragraph for such documents and information; or
(ii) Paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the most recently required annual report or statement filed pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Act and any rule(s) thereunder, Regulation A, Regulation Crowdfunding, or section 12(G)(2)(g) of the Act, together with any subsequently required periodic reports or statements, filed pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Act and any rule(s) thereunder, Regulation A, Regulation Crowdfunding, or section 12(G)(2)(g) of the Act.
(3)
Interdealer quotation system
shall mean any system of general circulation to brokers or dealers that regularly disseminates quotations of identified brokers or dealers.
(4)
Issuer,
in the case of quotations for American Depositary Receipts, shall mean the issuer of the deposited shares represented by such American Depositary Receipts.
(5)
Publicly available
shall mean available on EDGAR; on the website of a state or federal agency, a qualified interdealer quotation system, a registered national securities association, an issuer, or a registered broker or dealer; or through an electronic information delivery system that is generally available to the public in the primary trading market of a foreign private issuer as defined in § 240.3b-4 of this chapter;
Provided, however,
that
publicly available
shall mean where access is not restricted by user name, password, fees, or other restraints.
(6)
Qualified interdealer quotation system
shall mean any interdealer quotation system that meets the definition of an “alternative trading system” under § 242.300(a) of this chapter and operates pursuant to the exemption from the definition of an “exchange” under § 240.3a1-1(a)(2) of this chapter.
(7)
Quotation,
except as otherwise specified in this section, shall mean any bid or offer at a specified price with respect to a security, or any indication of interest by a broker or dealer in receiving bids or offers from others for a security, or any indication by a broker or dealer that wishes to advertise its general interest in buying or selling a particular security.
(8)
Quotation medium
shall mean any “interdealer quotation system” or any publication or electronic communications network or other device that is used by brokers or dealers to make known to others their interest in transactions in any security, including offers to buy or sell at a stated price or otherwise, or invitations of offers to buy or sell.
(9)
Shell company
shall mean any issuer, other than a business combination related shell company, as defined in § 230.405 of this chapter, or an asset-backed issuer as defined in Item 1101(b) of Regulation AB (§ 229.1101(b) of this chapter), that has:
(i) No or nominal operations; and
(ii) Either:
(A) No or nominal assets;
(B) Assets consisting solely of cash and cash equivalents; or
(C) Assets consisting of any amount of cash and cash equivalents and nominal other assets.
(f)
Exceptions.
Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the provisions of this section shall not apply to:
(1) The publication or submission of a quotation for a security that is admitted to trading on a national securities exchange and that is traded on such an exchange on the same day as, or on the business day next preceding, the day the quotation is published or submitted.
(2)(i) The publication or submission by a broker or dealer, solely on behalf of a customer (other than a person acting as or for a dealer), of a quotation that represents the customer's unsolicited indication of interest;
(ii) Provided, however, that this paragraph (f)(2) shall not apply to a quotation:
(A) Consisting of both a bid and an offer, each of which is at a specified price, unless the quotation medium specifically identifies the quotation as representing such an unsolicited customer interest; or
(B) Published or submitted, directly or indirectly on behalf of a company insider or affiliate as defined in § 230.144(a)(1) of this chapter, unless the documents and information specified in paragraph (b) of this section are current and publicly available.
(iii) For purposes of paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, a broker or dealer that publishes or submits quotations may rely on either a:
(A) Written representation from the customer's broker that such customer is not a company insider or an affiliate if:
(
1
) Such representation is received prior to, and on the same day that, the quotation representing the customer's unsolicited indication of interest is published or submitted; and
(
2
) The broker or dealer has a reasonable basis under the circumstances for believing that the customer's broker is a reliable source; or
(B) Publicly available determination by a qualified interdealer quotation
system or registered national securities association that the documents and information specified in paragraph (b) of this section are current and publicly available.
(3)(i)(A) The publication or submission, in an interdealer quotation system that specifically identifies as such unsolicited customer indications of interest of the kind described in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, of a quotation for a security that has been the subject of a bid or offer quotation (exclusive of any identified customer interests) in such a system at a specified price, with no more than four business days in succession without such a quotation;
(B) Provided, however, that this paragraph (f)(3) shall not apply to a quotation that is published or submitted by a broker or dealer for the security of an issuer that:
(
1
) Was the subject of a trading suspension order issued by the Commission pursuant to section 12(k) of the Act until 60 calendar days after the expiration of such order;
(
2
) Such broker or dealer, or any qualified interdealer quotation system or registered national securities association, has a reasonable basis under the circumstances for believing is a shell company, unless such quotation is published or submitted within the 18 months following the initial quotation for such issuer's security that is the subject of a bid or offer quotation in an interdealer quotation system at a specified price;
(C) Provided further, that this paragraph (f)(3) shall apply to the publication or submission of a quotation for a security of an issuer only if the documents and information regarding such issuer that are specified in:
(
1
) Paragraph (b)(3)(i), (iv), or (v) of this section are filed within 180 calendar days from the end of the issuer's most recent fiscal year or any quarterly reporting period that is covered by a report required by section 13 or 15(d) of the Act, as applicable;
(
2
) Paragraph (b)(3)(ii) or (iii) of this section are timely filed;
(
3
) Paragraph (b)(4) or (b)(5)(i) (excluding paragraphs (b)(5)(i)(N) through (P)) are current and publicly available; or
(
4
) Paragraph (b)(3)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), or (v) are filed within 15 calendar days starting on the date on which a publicly available determination is made pursuant to paragraph (f)(3)(ii)(A) of this section; or
(ii) If the documents and information specified in paragraph (b) of this section (excluding paragraphs (b)(5)(i)(N) through (P)) regarding an issuer are no longer current and publicly available, timely filed, or filed within 180 calendar days, as specified in paragraph (f)(3)(i)(C) of this section, a broker or dealer may continue to publish or submit a quotation for such issuer's security in an interdealer quotation system during the time frame specified in in paragraph (f)(3)(ii)(C) if:
(A) Within the first four business days that such documents and information are no longer current and publicly available, timely filed, or filed within 180 calendar days, as applicable, a qualified interdealer quotation system or registered national securities association makes a publicly available determination that:
(
1
) Such documents and information are no longer current and publicly available, timely filed, or filed within 180 calendar days, as specified in paragraph (f)(3)(i)(C) of this section; and
(
2
) The exception provided in paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section is available only during the 15 calendar days starting on the date on which the publicly available determination described in paragraph (f)(3)(ii)(A)(
1
) of this section is made; and
(B) The broker or dealer complies with the requirements of paragraphs (d)(2) and (f)(3)(i) of this section, except for the requirement that the documents and information specified in paragraph (b) (excluding paragraphs (b)(5)(i)(N) through (P)) regarding such issuer be current and publicly available, timely filed, or filed within 180 calendar days, as applicable;
(C) Provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph (f)(3)(ii) shall apply only during the shorter of the period beginning with the date on which a qualified interdealer quotation system or registered national securities association makes a publicly available determination identified in paragraph (f)(3)(ii)(A) and ending on:
(
1
) The date on which the documents and information specified in paragraph (b) of this section (excluding paragraphs (b)(5)(i)(N) through (P)) regarding such issuer become current and publicly available or filed; or
(
2
) The fourteenth calendar day following the date on which such publicly available determination was made.
(4) The publication or submission of a quotation for a municipal security.
(5) The publication or submission of a quotation for:
(i) A security with a worldwide average daily trading volume value of at least $100,000 reported during the 60 calendar days immediately before the publication of the quotation of such security; and
(ii) The issuer of such security has at least $50 million in total assets and $10 million in shareholders' equity as reflected in the issuer's publicly available audited balance sheet issued within six months after the end of its most recent fiscal year.
(6) The publication or submission of a quotation for a security by a broker or dealer that is named as an underwriter in a registration statement for an offering of that class of security referenced in paragraph (b)(1) of this section or in an offering statement for an offering of that class of security referenced in paragraph (b)(2) of this section;
Provided, however,
that this paragraph (f)(6) shall apply only to the publication or submission of a quotation for such security within the time frames specified in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section.
(7) The publication or submission of a quotation by a broker or dealer that relies on a publicly available determination by a qualified interdealer quotation system or registered national securities association that the requirements of an exception provided in paragraph (f)(1), (f)(3)(i), or (f)(4) or (5) of this section are met;
Provided, however,
that any qualified interdealer quotation system or registered national securities association that makes a publicly available determination that the requirements of the exception provided in paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section are met must subsequently make a publicly available determination under paragraph (f)(3)(ii)(A) of this section, as applicable.
(g)
Exemptive authority.
Upon written application or upon its own motion, the Commission may, conditionally or unconditionally, exempt by order any person, security, or transaction, or any class or classes of persons, securities, or transactions, from any provision or provisions of this section, to the extent that such exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and is consistent with the protection of investors.
[85 FR 68203, Oct. 27, 2020]
§ 240.15c2-12
Municipal securities disclosure.

# Preliminary Note:
For a discussion of disclosure obligations relating to municipal securities, issuers, brokers, dealers, and municipal securities dealers should refer to Securities Act Release No. 7049, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33741, FR-42 (March 9, 1994). For a discussion of the obligations of underwriters to have a reasonable basis for recommending municipal securities, brokers, dealers, and municipal securities dealers should refer to Securities Exchange Act Release No. 26100 (Sept. 22, 1988) and Securities Exchange Act Release No. 26985 (June 28, 1989).
(a)
General.
As a means reasonably designed to prevent fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative acts or practices, it shall be unlawful for any broker, dealer, or municipal securities dealer (a “Participating Underwriter” when used in connection with an Offering) to act as an underwriter in a primary offering of municipal securities with an aggregate principal amount of $1,000,000 or more (an “Offering”) unless the Participating Underwriter complies with the requirements of this section or is exempted from the provisions of this section.
(b)
Requirements.
(1) Prior to the time the Participating Underwriter bids for, purchases, offers, or sells municipal securities in an Offering, the Participating Underwriter shall obtain and review an official statement that an issuer of such securities deems final as of its date, except for the omission of no more than the following information: The offering price(s), interest rate(s), selling compensation, aggregate principal amount, principal amount per maturity, delivery dates,
any other terms or provisions required by an issuer of such securities to be specified in a competitive bid, ratings, other terms of the securities depending on such matters, and the identity of the underwriter(s).
(2) Except in competitively bid offerings, from the time the Participating Underwriter has reached an understanding with an issuer of municipal securities that it will become a Participating Underwriter in an Offering until a final official statement is available, the Participating Underwriter shall send no later than the next business day, by first-class mail or other equally prompt means, to any potential customer, on request, a single copy of the most recent preliminary official statement, if any.
(3) The Participating Underwriter shall contract with an issuer of municipal securities or its designated agent to receive, within seven business days after any final agreement to purchase, offer, or sell the municipal securities in an Offering and in sufficient time to accompany any confirmation that requests payment from any customer, copies of a final official statement in sufficient quantity to comply with paragraph (b)(4) of this rule and the rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board.
(4) From the time the final official statement becomes available until the earlier of—
(i) Ninety days from the end of the underwriting period or
(ii) The time when the official statement is available to any person from the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, but in no case less than twenty-five days following the end of the underwriting period, the Participating Underwriter in an Offering shall send no later than the next business day, by first-class mail or other equally prompt means, to any potential customer, on request, a single copy of the final official statement.
(5)(i) A Participating Underwriter shall not purchase or sell municipal securities in connection with an Offering unless the Participating Underwriter has reasonably determined that an issuer of municipal securities, or an obligated person for whom financial or operating data is presented in the final official statement has undertaken, either individually or in combination with other issuers of such municipal securities or obligated persons, in a written agreement or contract for the benefit of holders of such securities, to provide the following to the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board in an electronic format as prescribed by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, either directly or indirectly through an indenture trustee or a designated agent:
(A) Annual financial information for each obligated person for whom financial information or operating data is presented in the final official statement, or, for each obligated person meeting the objective criteria specified in the undertaking and used to select the obligated persons for whom financial information or operating data is presented in the final official statement, except that, in the case of pooled obligations, the undertaking shall specify such objective criteria;
(B) If not submitted as part of the annual financial information, then when and if available, audited financial statements for each obligated person covered by paragraph (b)(5)(i)(A) of this section;
(C) In a timely manner not in excess of ten business days after the occurrence of the event, notice of any of the following events with respect to the securities being offered in the Offering:
(
1
) Principal and interest payment delinquencies;
(
2
) Non-payment related defaults, if material;
(
3
) Unscheduled draws on debt service reserves reflecting financial difficulties;
(
4
) Unscheduled draws on credit enhancements reflecting financial difficulties;
(
5
) Substitution of credit or liquidity providers, or their failure to perform;
(
6
) Adverse tax opinions, the issuance by the Internal Revenue Service of proposed or final determinations of taxability, Notices of Proposed Issue (IRS Form 5701-TEB) or other material notices or determinations with respect to the tax status of the security, or other material events affecting the tax status of the security;
(
7
) Modifications to rights of security holders, if material;
(
8
) Bond calls, if material, and tender offers;
(
9
) Defeasances;
(
10
) Release, substitution, or sale of property securing repayment of the securities, if material;
(
11
) Rating changes;
(
12
) Bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar event of the obligated person;

# Note to paragraph (
b

# )(5)(
i

# )(C)(
12

# ):
For the purposes of the event identified in paragraph (b)(5)(i)(C)(12) of this section, the event is considered to occur when any of the following occur: The appointment of a receiver, fiscal agent or similar officer for an obligated person in a proceeding under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or in any other proceeding under state or federal law in which a court or governmental authority has assumed jurisdiction over substantially all of the assets or business of the obligated person, or if such jurisdiction has been assumed by leaving the existing governing body and officials or officers in possession but subject to the supervision and orders of a court or governmental authority, or the entry of an order confirming a plan of reorganization, arrangement or liquidation by a court or governmental authority having supervision or jurisdiction over substantially all of the assets or business of the obligated person.
(
13
) The consummation of a merger, consolidation, or acquisition involving an obligated person or the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the obligated person, other than in the ordinary course of business, the entry into a definitive agreement to undertake such an action or the termination of a definitive agreement relating to any such actions, other than pursuant to its terms, if material;
(
14
) Appointment of a successor or additional trustee or the change of name of a trustee, if material;
(
15
) Incurrence of a financial obligation of the obligated person, if material, or agreement to covenants, events of default, remedies, priority rights, or other similar terms of a financial obligation of the obligated person, any of which affect security holders, if material; and
(
16
) Default, event of acceleration, termination event, modification of terms, or other similar events under the terms of a financial obligation of the obligated person, any of which reflect financial difficulties; and
(D) In a timely manner, notice of a failure of any person specified in paragraph (b)(5)(i)(A) of this section to provide required annual financial information, on or before the date specified in the written agreement or contract.
(ii) The written agreement or contract for the benefit of holders of such securities also shall identify each person for whom annual financial information and notices of material events will be provided, either by name or by the objective criteria used to select such persons, and, for each such person shall:
(A) Specify, in reasonable detail, the type of financial information and operating data to be provided as part of annual financial information;
(B) Specify, in reasonable detail, the accounting principles pursuant to which financial statements will be prepared, and whether the financial statements will be audited; and
(C) Specify the date on which the annual financial information for the preceding fiscal year will be provided.
(iii) Such written agreement or contract for the benefit of holders of such securities also may provide that the continuing obligation to provide annual financial information and notices of events may be terminated with respect to any obligated person, if and when such obligated person no longer remains an obligated person with respect to such municipal securities.
(iv) Such written agreement or contract for the benefit of holders of such securities also shall provide that all documents provided to the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board shall be accompanied by identifying information as prescribed by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board.
(c)
Recommendations.
As a means reasonably designed to prevent fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative acts or practices, it shall be unlawful for any broker, dealer, or municipal securities dealer to recommend the purchase or sale of a municipal security unless such broker, dealer, or municipal securities dealer has procedures in place that provide reasonable assurance that it will receive prompt notice of any event disclosed pursuant to paragraph
(b)(5)(i)(C), paragraph (b)(5)(i)(D), and paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B) of this section with respect to that security.
(d)
Exemptions.
(1) This section shall not apply to a primary offering of municipal securities in authorized denominations of $100,000 or more, if such securities:
(i) Are sold to no more than thirty-five persons each of whom the Participating Underwriter reasonably believes:
(A) Has such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters that it is capable of evaluating the merits and risks of the prospective investment; and
(B) Is not purchasing for more than one account or with a view to distributing the securities; or
(ii) Have a maturity of nine months or less.
(2) Paragraph (b)(5) of this section shall not apply to an Offering of municipal securities if, at such time as an issuer of such municipal securities delivers the securities to the Participating Underwriters:
(i) No obligated person will be an obligated person with respect to more than $10,000,000 in aggregate amount of outstanding municipal securities, including the offered securities and excluding municipal securities that were offered in a transaction exempt from this section pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section;
(ii) An issuer of municipal securities or obligated person has undertaken, either individually or in combination with other issuers of municipal securities or obligated persons, in a written agreement or contract for the benefit of holders of such municipal securities, to provide the following to the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board in an electronic format as prescribed by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board:
(A) At least annually, financial information or operating data regarding each obligated person for which financial information or operating data is presented in the final official statement, as specified in the undertaking, which financial information and operating data shall include, at a minimum, that financial information and operating data which is customarily prepared by such obligated person and is publicly available; and
(B) In a timely manner not in excess of ten business days after the occurrence of the event, notice of events specified in paragraph (b)(5)(i)(C) of this section with respect to the securities that are the subject of the Offering; and
(C) Such written agreement or contract for the benefit of holders of such securities also shall provide that all documents provided to the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board shall be accompanied by identifying information as prescribed by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board; and
(iii) The final official statement identifies by name, address, and telephone number the persons from which the foregoing information, data, and notices can be obtained.
(3) The provisions of paragraph (b)(5) of this section, other than paragraph (b)(5)(i)(C) of this section, shall not apply to an Offering of municipal securities, if such municipal securities have a stated maturity of 18 months or less.
(4) The provisions of paragraph (c) of this section shall not apply to municipal securities:
(i) Sold in an Offering to which paragraph (b)(5) of this section did not apply, other than Offerings exempt under paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section; or
(ii) Sold in an Offering exempt from this section under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(5) With the exception of paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4), this section shall apply to a primary offering of municipal securities in authorized denominations of $100,000 or more if such securities may, at the option of the holder thereof, be tendered to an issuer of such securities or its designated agent for redemption or purchase at par value or more at least as frequently as every nine months until maturity, earlier redemption, or purchase by an issuer or its designated agent; provided, however, that paragraphs (b)(5) and (c) of this section shall not apply to such securities outstanding on November 30, 2010, for so long as they continuously remain in authorized denominations of $100,000 or more and
may, at the option of the holder thereof, be tendered to an issuer of such securities or its designated agent for redemption or purchase at par value or more at least as frequently as every nine months until maturity, earlier redemption, or purchase by an issuer or its designated agent.
(e)
Exemptive authority.
The Commission, upon written request, or upon its own motion, may exempt any broker, dealer, or municipal securities dealer, whether acting in the capacity of a Participating Underwriter or otherwise, that is a participant in a transaction or class of transactions from any requirement of this section, either unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions, if the Commission determines that such an exemption is consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors.
(f)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this rule—
(1) The term
authorized denominations of $100,000 or more
means municipal securities with a principal amount of $100,000 or more and with restrictions that prevent the sale or transfer of such securities in principal amounts of less than $100,000 other than through a primary offering; except that, for municipal securities with an original issue discount of 10 percent or more, the term means municipal securities with a minimum purchase price of $100,000 or more and with restrictions that prevent the sale or transfer of such securities, in principal amounts that are less than the original principal amount at the time of the primary offering, other than through a primary offering.
(2) The term
end of the underwriting period
means the later of such time as
(i) The issuer of municipal securities delivers the securities to the Participating Underwriters or
(ii) The Participating Underwriter does not retain, directly or as a member or an underwriting syndicate, an unsold balance of the securities for sale to the public.
(3) The term
final official statement
means a document or set of documents prepared by an issuer of municipal securities or its representatives that is complete as of the date delivered to the Participating Underwriter(s) and that sets forth information concerning the terms of the proposed issue of securities; information, including financial information or operating data, concerning such issuers of municipal securities and those other entities, enterprises, funds, accounts, and other persons material to an evaluation of the Offering; and a description of the undertakings to be provided pursuant to paragraph (b)(5)(i), paragraph (d)(2)(ii), and paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section, if applicable, and of any instances in the previous five years in which each person specified pursuant to paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section failed to comply, in all material respects, with any previous undertakings in a written contract or agreement specified in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section. Financial information or operating data may be set forth in the document or set of documents, or may be included by specific reference to documents available to the public on the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board's Internet Web site or filed with the Commission.
(4) The term
issuer of municipal securities
means the governmental issuer specified in section 3(a)(29) of the Act and the issuer of any separate security, including a sepatate security as defined in rule 3b-5(a) under the Act.
(5) The term
potential customer
means (i) Any person contacted by the Participating Underwriter concerning the purchase of municipal securities that are intended to be offered or have been sold in an offering, (ii) Any person who has expressed an interest to the Participating Underwriter in possibly purchasing such municipal securities, and (iii) Any person who has a customer account with the Participating Underwriter.
(6) The term
preliminary official statement
means an official statement prepared by or for an issuer of municipal securities for dissemination to potential customers prior to the availability of the final official statement.
(7) The term
primary offering
means an offering of municipal securities directly or indirectly by or on behalf of an issuer of such securities, including any remarketing of municipal securities.
(i) That is accompanied by a change in the authorized denomination of such
securities from $100,000 or more to less than $100,000, or
(ii) That is accompanied by a change in the period during which such securities may be tendered to an issuer of such securities or its designated agent for redemption or purchase from a period of nine months or less to a period of more than nine months.
(8) The term
underwriter
means any person who has purchased from an issuer of municipal securities with a view to, or offers or sells for an issuer of municipal securities in connection with, the offering of any municipal security, or participates or has a direct or indirect participation in any such undertaking, or participates or has a participation in the direct or indirect underwriting of any such undertaking; except, that such term shall not include a person whose interest is limited to a commission, concession, or allowance from an underwriter, broker, dealer, or municipal securities dealer not in excess of the usual and customary distributors' or sellers' commission, concession, or allowance.
(9) The term
annual financial information
means financial information or operating data, provided at least annually, of the type included in the final official statement with respect to an obligated person, or in the case where no financial information or operating data was provided in the final official statement with respect to such obligated person, of the type included in the final official statement with respect to those obligated persons that meet the objective criteria applied to select the persons for which financial information or operating data will be provided on an annual basis. Financial information or operating data may be set forth in the document or set of documents, or may be included by specific reference to documents available to the public on the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board's Internet Web site or filed with the Commission.
(10) The term
obligated person
means any person, including an issuer of municipal securities, who is either generally or through an enterprise, fund, or account of such person committed by contract or other arrangement to support payment of all, or part of the obligations on the municipal securities to be sold in the Offering (other than providers of municipal bond insurance, letters of credit, or other liquidity facilities).
(11)(i) The term
financial obligation
means a:
(A) Debt obligation;
(B) Derivative instrument entered into in connection with, or pledged as security or a source of payment for, an existing or planned debt obligation; or
(C) Guarantee of paragraph (f)(11)(i)(A) or (B).
(ii) The term
financial obligation
shall not include municipal securities as to which a final official statement has been provided to the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board consistent with this rule.
(g)
Transitional provision.
If on July 28, 1989, a Participating Underwriter was contractually committed to act as underwriter in an Offering of municipal securities originally issued before July 29, 1989, the requirements of paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) shall not apply to the Participating Underwriter in connection with such an Offering. Paragraph (b)(5) of this section shall not apply to a Participating Underwriter that has contractually committed to act as an underwriter in an Offering of municipal securities before July 3, 1995;
except that
paragraph (b)(5)(i)(A) and paragraph (b)(5)(i)(B) shall not apply with respect to fiscal years ending prior to January 1, 1996. Paragraph (c) shall become effective on January 1, 1996. Paragraph (d)(2)(ii) and paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section shall not apply to an Offering of municipal securities commencing prior to January 1, 1996.
[54 FR 28813, July 10, 1989, as amended at 59 FR 59609, Nov. 17, 1994; 73 FR 76132, Dec. 15, 2008; 75 FR 33155, June 10, 2010; 83 FR 44742, Aug. 31, 2018]
§ 240.15c3-1
Net capital requirements for brokers or dealers.
(a) Every broker or dealer must at all times have and maintain net capital no less than the greater of the highest minimum requirement applicable to its ratio requirement under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, or to any of its activities under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, and must otherwise not be “insolvent” as that term is defined in paragraph (c)(16) of this section. In lieu
of applying paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, an OTC derivatives dealer shall maintain net capital pursuant to paragraph (a)(5) of this section. Each broker or dealer also shall comply with the supplemental requirements of paragraphs (a)(4) and (a)(9) of this section, to the extent either paragraph is applicable to its activities. In addition, a broker or dealer shall maintain net capital of not less than its own net capital requirement plus the sum of each broker's or dealer's subsidiary or affiliate minimum net capital requirements, which is consolidated pursuant to appendix C, § 240.15c3-1c.

# Ratio Requirements

# Aggregate Indebtedness Standard
(1)(i) No broker or dealer, other than one that elects the provisions of paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, shall permit its aggregate indebtedness to all other persons to exceed 1500 percent of its net capital (or 800 percent of its net capital for 12 months after commencing business as a broker or dealer).

# Alternative Standard
(ii) A broker or dealer may elect not to be subject to the Aggregate Indebtedness Standard of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section. That broker or dealer shall not permit its net capital to be less than the greater of $250,000 or 2 percent of aggregate debit items computed in accordance with the Formula for Determination of Reserve Requirements for Brokers and Dealers (Exhibit A to Rule 15c3-3, § 240.15c3-3a). Such broker or dealer shall notify its Examining Authority, in writing, of its election to operate under this paragraph (a)(1)(ii). Once a broker or dealer has notified its Examining Authority, it shall continue to operate under this paragraph unless a change is approved upon application to the Commission. A broker or dealer that elects this standard and is not exempt from Rule 15c3-3 shall:
(A) Make the computation required by § 240.15c3-3(e) and set forth in Exhibit A, § 240.15c3-3a, on a weekly basis and, in lieu of the 1% reduction of certain debit items required by Note E (3) in the computation of its Exhibit A requirement, reduce aggregate debit items in such computation by 3%; provided, however, that, if a broker or dealer is required to make the computation required by § 240.15c3-3(e) and set forth in Exhibit A, § 240.15c3-3a, on a daily basis, the broker or dealer may reduce aggregate debit items in such computation by 2%;
(B) Include in Items 7 and 8 of Exhibit A, § 240.15c3-3a, the market value of items specified therein more than 7 business days old;
(C) Exclude credit balances in accounts representing amounts payable for securities not yet received from the issuer or its agent which securities are specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) (A) and (E) of this section and any related debit items from the Exhibit A requirement for 3 business days; and
(D) Deduct from net worth in computing net capital 1 percent of the contract value of all failed to deliver contracts or securities borrowed that were allocated to failed to receive contracts of the same issue and which thereby were excluded from Items 11 or 12 of Exhibit A, § 240.15c3-3a.

# Futures Commission Merchants
(iii) No broker or dealer registered as a futures commission merchant shall permit its net capital to be less than the greater of its requirement under paragraph (a)(1) (i) or (ii) of this section, or 4 percent of the funds required to be segregated pursuant to the Commodity Exchange Act and the regulations thereunder (less the market value of commodity options purchased by option customers on or subject to the rules of a contract market, each such deduction not to exceed the amount of funds in the customer's account).

# Minimum Requirements
See Appendix E (§ 240.15c3-1e) for temporary minimum requirements.

# Brokers or Dealers That Carry Customer Accounts
(2)(i) A broker or dealer (other than one described in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii) or (a)(8) of this section) shall maintain net capital of not less than $250,000 if it carries customer or broker or dealer accounts and receives or holds funds or securities for those persons. A broker or dealer shall be deemed to receive
funds, or to carry customer or broker or dealer accounts and to receive funds from those persons if, in connection with its activities as a broker or dealer, it receives checks, drafts, or other evidences of indebtedness made payable to itself or persons other than the requisite registered broker or dealer carrying the account of a customer, escrow agent, issuer, underwriter, sponsor, or other distributor of securities. A broker or dealer shall be deemed to hold securities for, or to carry customer or broker or dealer accounts, and hold securities of, those persons if it does not promptly forward or promptly deliver all of the securities of customers or of other brokers or dealers received by the firm in connection with its activities as a broker or dealer. A broker or dealer, without complying with this paragraph (a)(2)(i), may receive securities only if its activities conform with the provisions of paragraphs (a)(2) (iv) or (v) of this section, and may receive funds only in connection with the activities described in paragraph (a)(2)(v) of this section.
(ii) A broker or dealer that is exempt from the provisions of § 240.15c3-3 pursuant to paragraph (k)(2)(i) thereof shall maintain net capital of not less than $100,000.

# Dealers
(iii) A dealer shall maintain net capital of not less than $100,000. For the purposes of this section, the term “dealer” includes:
(A) Any broker or dealer that endorses or writes options otherwise than on a registered national securities exchange or a facility of a registered national securities association; and
(B) Any broker or dealer that effects more than ten transactions in any one calendar year for its own investment account. This section shall not apply to those persons engaging in activities described in paragraphs (a)(2)(v), (a)(2)(vi) or (a)(8) of this section, or to those persons whose underwriting activities are limited solely to acting as underwriters in best efforts or all or none underwritings in conformity with paragraph (b)(2) of § 240.15c2-4, so long as those persons engage in no other dealer activities.

# Brokers or Dealers That Introduce Customer Accounts And Receive Securities
(iv) A broker or dealer shall maintain net capital of not less than $50,000 if it introduces transactions and accounts of customers or other brokers or dealers to another registered broker or dealer that carries such accounts on a fully disclosed basis, and if the broker or dealer receives but does not hold customer or other broker or dealer securities. A broker or dealer operating under this paragraph (a)(2)(iv) of this section may participate in a firm commitment underwriting without being subject to the provisions of paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, but may not enter into a commitment for the purchase of shares related to that underwriting.

# Brokers or Dealers Engaged in the Sale of Redeemable Shares of Registered Investment Companies and Certain Other Share Accounts
(v) A broker or dealer shall maintain net capital of not less than $25,000 if it acts as a broker or dealer with respect to the purchase, sale and redemption of redeemable shares of registered investment companies or of interests or participations in an insurance company separate account directly from or to the issuer on other than a subscription way basis. A broker or dealer operating under this section may sell securities for the account of a customer to obtain funds for the immediate reinvestment in redeemable securities of registered investment companies. A broker or dealer operating under this paragraph (a)(2)(v) must promptly transmit all funds and promptly deliver all securities received in connection with its activities as a broker or dealer, and may not otherwise hold funds or securities for, or owe money or securities to, customers.

# Other Brokers or Dealers
(vi) A broker or dealer that does not receive, directly or indirectly, or hold funds or securities for, or owe funds or securities to, customers and does not carry accounts of, or for, customers and does not engage in any of the activities described in paragraphs (a)(2) (i) through (v) of this section shall
maintain net capital of not less than $5,000. A broker or dealer operating under this paragraph may engage in the following dealer activities without being subject to the requirements of paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section:
(A) In the case of a buy order, prior to executing such customer's order, it purchases as principal the same number of shares or purchases shares to accumulate the number of shares necessary to complete the order, which shall be cleared through another registered broker or dealer or
(B) In the case of a sell order, prior to executing such customer's order, it sells as principal the same number of shares or a portion thereof, which shall be cleared through another registered broker or dealer.
(3) [Reserved]

# Capital Requirements for Market Makers
(4) A broker or dealer engaged in activities as a market maker as defined in paragraph (c)(8) of this section shall maintain net capital in an amount not less than $2,500 for each security in which it makes a market (unless a security in which it makes a market has a market value of $5 or less, in which event the amount of net capital shall be not less than $1,000 for each such security) based on the average number of such markets made by such broker or dealer during the 30 days immediately preceding the computation date. Under no circumstances shall it have net capital less than that required by the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, or be required to maintain net capital of more than $1,000,000 unless required by paragraph (a) of this section.
(5)(i) In accordance with appendix F to this section (§ 240.15c3-1f), the Commission may grant an application by an OTC derivatives dealer when calculating net capital to use the market risk standards of appendix F as to some or all of its positions in lieu of the provisions of paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section and the credit risk standards of appendix F to its receivables (including counterparty net exposure) arising from transactions in eligible OTC derivative instruments in lieu of the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section. An OTC derivatives dealer shall at all times maintain tentative net capital of not less than $100 million and net capital of not less than $20 million.
(ii) An OTC derivatives dealer that is also registered as a security-based swap dealer under section 15F of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-10) is subject to the capital requirements in §§ 240.18a-1, 240.18a-1a, 240.18a-1b, 240.18a-1c and 240.18a-1d instead of the capital requirements of this section and its appendices.

# Market Makers, Specialists and Certain Other Dealers
(6)(i) A dealer who meets the conditions of paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section may elect to operate under this paragraph (a)(6) and thereby not apply, except to the extent required by this paragraph (a)(6), the provisions of paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) or appendix A (§ 240.15c3-1a) of this section to market maker and specialist transactions and, in lieu thereof, apply thereto the provisions of paragraph (a)(6)(iii) of this section.
(ii) This paragraph (a)(6) shall be available to a dealer who does not effect transactions with other than brokers or dealers, who does not carry customer accounts, who does not effect transactions in options not listed on a registered national securities exchange or facility of a registered national securities association, and whose market maker or specialist transactions are effected through and carried in a market maker or specialist account cleared by another broker or dealer as provided in paragraph (a)(6)(iv) of this section.
(iii) A dealer who elects to operate pursuant to this paragraph (a)(6) shall at all times maintain a liquidating equity in respect of securities positions in his market maker or specialist account at least equal to:
(A) An amount equal to 25 percent (5 percent in the case of exempted securities) of the market value of the long positions and 30 percent of the market value of the short positions; provided, however, in the case of long or short positions in options and long or short positions in securities other than options which relate to a bona fide hedged position as defined in paragraph (c)(2)(x)(C) of this section, such amount shall equal the deductions in respect of
such positions specified by appendix A (§ 240.15c3-1a).
(B) Such lesser requirement as may be approved by the Commission under specified terms and conditions upon written application of the dealer and the carrying broker or dealer.
(C) For purposes of this paragraph (a)(6)(iii), equity in such specialist or market maker account shall be computed by (
1
) marking all securities positions long or short in the account to their respective current market values, (
2
) adding (deducting in the case of a debit balance) the credit balance carried in such specialist or market maker account, and (
3
) adding (deducting in the case of short positions) the market value of positions long in such account.
(iv) The dealer shall obtain from the broker or dealer carrying the market maker or specialist account a written undertaking which shall be designated “Notice Pursuant to § 240.15c3-1(a)(6) of Intention to Carry Specialist or Market Maker Account.” Said undertaking shall contain the representations required by paragraph (a)(6) of this section and shall be filed with the Commission's Washington, DC, Office, the regional office of the Commission for the region in which the broker or dealer has its principal place of business and the Designated Examining Authorities of both firms prior to effecting any transactions in said account. The broker or dealer carrying such account:
(A) Shall mark the account to the market not less than daily and shall issue appropriate calls for additional equity which shall be met by noon of the following business day;
(B) Shall notify by telegraph the Commission and the Designated Examining Authorities pursuant to 17 CFR 240.17a-11, if the market maker or specialist fails to deposit any required equity within the time prescribed in paragraph (a)(6)(iv)(A) of this section; said telegraphic notice shall be received by the Commission and the Designated Examining Authorities not later than the close of business on the day said call is not met;
(C) Shall not extend further credit in the account if the equity in the account falls below that prescribed in paragraph (a)(6)(iii) of this section, and
(D) Shall take steps to liquidate promptly existing positions in the account in the event of a failure to meet a call for equity.
(v) No such carrying broker or dealer shall permit the sum of (A) the deductions required by paragraph (c)(2)(x)(A) of this section in respect of all transactions in market maker accounts guaranteed, indorsed or carried by such broker or dealer pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(x) of this section and (B) the equity required by paragraph (iii) of this paragraph (a)(6) in respect of all transactions in the accounts of specialists of market makers in options carried by such broker or dealer pursuant to this paragraph (a)(6) to exceed 1,000 percent of such broker's or dealer's net capital as defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section for any period exceeding five business days;
Provided,
That solely for purposes of this paragraph (a)(6)(v), deductions or equity required in a specialist or market maker account in respect of positions in fully paid securities (other than options), which do not underlie options listed on the national securities exchange or facility of a national securities association of which the specialist or market marker is a member, need not be recognized.
Provided further,
That if at any time such sum exceeds 1,000 percent of such broker's or dealer's net capital, then the broker or dealer shall immediately transmit telegraphic notice of such event to the principal office of the Commission in Washington, DC, the regional office of the Commission for the region in which the broker or dealer maintains its principal place of business, and such broker's or dealer's Designated Examining Authority.
Provided further,
That if at any time such sum exceeds 1,000 percent of such broker's or dealer's net capital, then such broker or dealer shall be subject to the prohibitions against withdrawal of equity capital set forth in paragraph (e) of this section, and to the prohibitions against reduction, prepayment and repayment of subordination agreements set forth in paragraph (b)(11) of § 240.15c3-1d, as if such broker or dealer's net capital were below the minimum standards specified by each of the aforementioned paragraphs.

# Alternative Net Capital Computation for Broker-Dealers Authorized to Use Models
(7) In accordance with appendix E to this section (§ 240.15c3-1e), the Commission may approve, in whole or in part, an application or an amendment to an application by a broker or dealer to calculate net capital using the market risk standards of appendix E to compute a deduction for market risk on some or all of its positions, instead of the provisions of paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) and (c)(2)(vii) of this section, and using the credit risk standards of appendix E to compute a deduction for credit risk on certain credit exposures arising from transactions in derivatives instruments, instead of the provisions of paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section, subject to any conditions or limitations on the broker or dealer the Commission may require as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. A broker or dealer that has been approved to calculate its net capital under appendix E must:
(i)(A) At all times maintain tentative net capital of not less than $5 billion and net capital of not less than the greater of $1 billion or the sum of the ratio requirement under paragraph (a)(1) of this section and:
(
1
) Two percent of the risk margin amount; or
(
2
) Four percent or less of the risk margin amount if the Commission issues an order raising the requirement to four percent or less on or after the third anniversary of this section's compliance date; or
(
3
) Eight percent or less of the risk margin amount if the Commission issues an order raising the requirement to eight percent or less on or after the fifth anniversary of this section's compliance date and the Commission had previously issued an order raising the requirement under paragraph (a)(7)(i)(B) of this section;
(B) If, after considering the capital and leverage levels of brokers or dealers subject to paragraph (a)(7) of this section, as well as the risks of their security-based swap positions, the Commission determines that it may be appropriate to change the percentage pursuant to paragraph (a)(7)(i)(A)(
2
) or (
3
) of this section, the Commission will publish a notice of the potential change and subsequently will issue an order regarding any such change.
(ii) Provide notice that same day in accordance with § 240.17a-11(g) if the broker's or dealer's tentative net capital is less than $6 billion. The Commission may, upon written application, lower the threshold at which notification is necessary under this paragraph (a)(7)(ii), either unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions, if a broker or dealer satisfies the Commission that notification at the $6 billion threshold is unnecessary because of, among other factors, the special nature of its business, its financial position, its internal risk management system, or its compliance history; and
(iii) Comply with § 240.15c3-4 as though it were an OTC derivatives dealer with respect to all of its business activities, except that paragraphs (c)(5)(xiii), (c)(5)(xiv), (d)(8), and (d)(9) of § 240.15c3-4 shall not apply.
(8)
Municipal securities brokers' brokers.
(i) A municipal securities brokers' brokers, as defined in subsection (ii) of this paragraph (a)(8), may elect not to be subject to the limitations of paragraph (c)(2)(ix) of this section provided that such brokers' broker complies with the requirements set out in paragraphs (a)(8) (iii), (iv) and (v) of this section.
(ii) The term
municipal securities brokers' broker
shall mean a municipal securities broker or dealer who acts exclusively as an undisclosed agent in the purchase or sale of municipal securities for a registered broker or dealer or registered municipal securities dealer, who has no “customers” as defined in this rule and who does not have or maintain any municipal securities in its proprietary or other accounts.
(iii) In order to qualify to operate under this paragraph (a)(8), a brokers' broker shall at all times have and maintain net capital of not less than $150,000.
(iv) For purposes of this paragraph (a)(8), a brokers' broker shall deduct from net worth 1% of the contract value of each municipal failed to deliver contract which is outstanding 21 business days or longer. Such deduction shall be increased by any excess of
the contract price of the fail to deliver over the market value of the underlying security.
(v) For purposes of this paragraph (a)(8), a brokers' broker may exclude from its aggregate indebtedness computation indebtedness adequately collateralized by municipal securities outstanding for not more than one business day and offset by municipal securities failed to deliver of the same issue and quantity. In no event may a brokers' broker exclude any overnight bank loan attributable to the same municipal securities failed to deliver contract for more than one business day. A brokers' broker need not deduct from net worth the amount by which the market value of securities failed to receive outstanding longer than thirty (30) calendar days exceeds the contract value of those failed to receive as required by Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(iv)(E).

# Certain Additional Capital Requirements for Brokers or Dealers Engaging in Reverse Repurchase Agreements
(9) A broker or dealer shall maintain net capital in addition to the amounts required under paragraph (a) of this section in an amount equal to 10 percent of:
(i) The excess of the market value of United States Treasury Bills, Bonds and Notes subject to reverse repurchase agreements with any one party over 105 percent of the contract prices (including accrued interest) for reverse repurchase agreements with that party;
(ii) The excess of the market value of securities issued or guaranteed as to principal or interest by an agency of the United States or mortgage related securities as defined in section 3(a)(41) of the Act subject to reverse repurchase agreements with any one party over 110 percent of the contract prices (including accrued interest) for reverse repurchase agreements with that party; and
(iii) The excess of the market value of other securities subject to reverse repurchase agreements with any one party over 120 percent of the contract prices (including accrued interest) for reverse repurchase agreements with that party.

# Broker-Dealers Registered as Security-Based Swap Dealers
(10) A broker or dealer registered with the Commission as a security-based swap dealer, other than a broker or dealer subject to the provisions of paragraph (a)(7) of this section, must:
(i)(A) At all times maintain net capital of not less than the greater of $20 million or the sum of the ratio requirement under paragraph (a)(1) of this section and:
(
1
) Two percent of the risk margin amount; or
(
2
) Four percent or less of the risk margin amount if the Commission issues an order raising the requirement to four percent or less on or after the third anniversary of this section's compliance date; or
(
3
) Eight percent or less of the risk margin amount if the Commission issues an order raising the requirement to eight percent or less on or after the fifth anniversary of this section's compliance date and the Commission had previously issued an order raising the requirement under paragraph (a)(10)(i)(B) of this section;
(B) If, after considering the capital and leverage levels of brokers or dealers subject to paragraph (a)(10) of this section, as well as the risks of their security-based swap positions, the Commission determines that it may be appropriate to change the percentage pursuant to paragraph (a)(10)(i)(A)(
2
) or (
3
) of this section, the Commission will publish a notice of the potential change and subsequently will issue an order regarding any such change; and
(ii) Comply with § 240.15c3-4 as though it were an OTC derivatives dealer with respect to all of its business activities, except that paragraphs (c)(5)(xiii) and (xiv), and (d)(8) and (9) of § 240.15c3-4 shall not apply.
(b) Exemptions:
(1) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any specialist:
(i) Whose securities business, except for an occasional non-specialist related securities transaction for its own account, is limited to that of acting as an options market maker on a national securities exchange;
(ii) That is a member in good standing and subject to the capital requirements of a national securities exchange;
(iii) That does not transact a business in securities with other than a broker or dealer registered with the Commission under section 15 or section 15C of the Act or a member of a national securities exchange; and
(iv) That is not a clearing member of The Options Clearing Corporation and whose securities transactions are effected through and carried in an account cleared by another broker or dealer registered with the Commission under section 15 of the Act.
(2) A member in good standing of a national securities exchange who acts as a floor broker (and whose activities do not require compliance with other provisions of this rule), may elect to comply, in lieu of the other provisions of this section, with the following financial responsibility standard: The value of the exchange membership of the member (based on the lesser of the most recent sale price or current bid price for an exchange membership) is not less than $15,000, or an amount equal to the excess of $15,000 over the value of the exchange membership is held by an independent agent in escrow:
Provided,
That the rules of such exchange require that the proceeds from the sale of the exchange membership of the member and the amount held in escrow pursuant to this paragraph shall be subject to the prior claims of the exchange and its clearing corporation and those arising directly from the closing out of contracts entered into on the floor of such exchanges.
(3) The Commission may, upon written application, exempt from the provisions of this section, either unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions, any broker or dealer who satisfies the Commission that, because of the special nature of its business, its financial position, and the safeguards it has established for the protection of customers' funds and securities, it is not necessary in the public interest or for the protection of investors to subject the particular broker or dealer to the provisions of this section.
(c)
Definitions.
For the purpose of this section:

# Aggregate Indebtedness
(1) The term
aggregate indebtedness
shall be deemed to mean the total money liabilities of a broker or dealer arising in connection with any transaction whatsoever and includes, among other things, money borrowed, money payable against securities loaned and securities “failed to receive,” the market value of securities borrowed to the extent to which no equivalent value is paid or credited (other than the market value of margin securities borrowed from customers in accordance with the provisions of 17 CFR 240.15c3-3 and margin securities borrowed from non-customers), customers' and non-customers' free credit balances, credit balances in customers' and non-customers' accounts having short positions in securities, equities in customers' and non-customers' future commodities accounts and credit balances in customers' and non-customers' commodities accounts, but excluding:

# Exclusions From Aggregate Indebtedness
(i) Indebtedness adequately collateralized by securities which are carried long by the broker or dealer and which have not been sold or by securities which collateralize a secured demand note pursuant to appendix D to this section 17 CFR 240.15c3-1d; indebtedness adequately collateralized by spot commodities which are carried long by the broker or dealer and which have not been sold; or, until October 1, 1976, indebtedness adequately collateralized by municipal securities outstanding for not more than one business day and offset by municipal securities failed to deliver of the same issue and quantity, where such indebtedness is incurred by a broker or dealer effecting transactions solely in municipal securities who is either registered with the Commission or temporarily exempt from such registration pursuant to 17 CFR 240.15a-1(T) or 17 CFR 240.15Ba2-3(T);
(ii) Amounts payable against securities loaned, which securities are carried long by the broker or dealer and
which have not been sold or which securities collateralize a secured demand note pursuant to Appendix (D) (17 CFR 240.15c)
(iii) Amounts payable against securities failed to receive which securities are carried long by the broker or dealer and which have not been sold or which securities collateralize a secured demand note pursuant to Appendix (D) (17 CFR 240.15c3-1d) or amounts payable against securities failed to receive for which the broker or dealer also has a receivable related to securities of the same issue and quantity thereof which are either fails to deliver or securities borrowed by the broker or dealer;
(iv) Credit balances in accounts representing amounts payable for securities or money market instruments not yet received from the issuer or its agent which securities are specified in paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(E) and which amounts are outstanding in such accounts not more than three (3) business days;
(v) Equities in customers' and non-customers' accounts segregated in accordance with the provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder;
(vi) Liability reserves established and maintained for refunds of charges required by section 27(d) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, but only to the extent of amounts on deposit in a segregated trust account in accordance with 17 CFR 270.27d-1 under the Investment Company Act of 1940;
(vii) Amounts payable to the extent funds and qualified securities are required to be on deposit and are deposited in a “Special Reserve Bank Account for the Exclusive Benefit of Customers” pursuant to 17 CFR 240.15c3-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(viii) Fixed liabilities adequately secured by assets acquired for use in the ordinary course of the trade or business of a broker or dealer but no other fixed liabilities secured by assets of the broker or dealer shall be so excluded unless the sole recourse of the creditor for nonpayment of such liability is to such asset;
(ix) Liabilities on open contractual commitments;
(x) Indebtedness subordinated to the claims of creditors pursuant to a satisfactory subordination agreement, as defined in Appendix (D) (17 CFR 240.15c3-1d);
(xi) Liabilities which are effectively subordinated to the claims of creditors (but which are not subject to a satisfactory subordination agreement as defined in Appendix (D) (17 CFR 240.15c3-1d)) by non-customers of the broker or dealer prior to such subordination, except such subordinations by customers as may be approved by the Examining Authority for such broker or dealer;
(xii) Credit balances in accounts of general partners;
(xiii) Deferred tax liabilities;
(xiv) Eighty-five percent of amounts payable to a registered investment company related to fail to deliver receivables of the same quantity arising out of purchases of shares of those registered investment companies; and
(xv) Eighty-five percent of amounts payable against securities loaned for which the broker or dealer has receivables related to securities of the same class and issue and quantity that are securities borrowed by the broker or dealer.

# Net Capital
(2) The term
net capital
shall be deemed to mean the net worth of a broker or dealer, adjusted by:
(i)
Adjustments to net worth related to unrealized profit or loss, deferred tax provisions, and certain liabilities.
(A) Adding unrealized profits (or deducting unrealized losses) in the accounts of the broker or dealer;
(B)(
1
) In determining net worth, all long and all short positions in listed options shall be marked to their market value and all long and all short securities and commodities positions shall be marked to their market value.
(
2
) In determining net worth, the value attributed to any unlisted option shall be the difference between the option's exercise value and the market value of the underlying security. In the case of an unlisted call, if the market value of the underlying security is less than the exercise value of such call it shall be given no value and in the case of an unlisted put if the market value of the underlying security is more than
the exercise value of the unlisted put it shall be given no value.
(C) Adding to net worth the lesser of any deferred income tax liability related to the items in (
1
), (
2
), and (
3
) below, or the sum of (
1
), (
2
) and (
3
) below;
(
1
) The aggregate amount resulting from applying to the amount of the deductions computed in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section and Appendices A and B, § 240.15c3-1a and 240.15c3-1b, the appropriate Federal and State tax rate(s) applicable to any unrealized gain on the asset on which the deduction was computed;
(
2
) Any deferred tax liability related to income accrued which is directly related to an asset otherwise deducted pursuant to this section;
(
3
) Any deferred tax liability related to unrealized appreciation in value of any asset(s) which has been otherwise deducted from net worth in accordance with the provisions of this section; and,
(D) Adding, in the case of future income tax benefits arising as a result of unrealized losses, the amount of such benefits not to exceed the amount of income tax liabilities accrued on the books and records of the broker or dealer, but only to the extent such benefits could have been applied to reduce accrued tax liabilities on the date of the capital computation, had the related unrealized losses been realized on that date.
(E) Adding to net worth any actual tax liability related to income accrued which is directly related to an asset otherwise deducted pursuant to this section.
(F) Subtracting from net worth any liability or expense relating to the business of the broker or dealer for which a third party has assumed the responsibility, unless the broker or dealer can demonstrate that the third party has adequate resources independent of the broker or dealer to pay the liability or expense.
(G) Subtracting from net worth any contribution of capital to the broker or dealer:
(
1
) Under an agreement that provides the investor with the option to withdraw the capital; or
(
2
) That is intended to be withdrawn within a period of one year of contribution. Any withdrawal of capital made within one year of its contribution is deemed to have been intended to be withdrawn within a period of one year, unless the withdrawal has been approved in writing by the Examining Authority for the broker or dealer.
(ii)
Subordinated liabilities.
Excluding liabilities of the broker or dealer which are subordinated to the claims of creditors pursuant to a satisfactory subordination agreement, as defined in appendix (D) (17 CFR 240.15c3-1d).
(iii)
Sole proprietors.
Deducting, in the case of a broker or dealer who is a sole proprietor, the excess of liabilities which have not been incurred in the course of business as a broker or dealer over assets not used in the business.
(iv)
Assets not readily convertible into cash.
Deducting fixed assets and assets which cannot be readily converted into cash (less any indebtedness excluded in accordance with subdivision (c)(1)(viii) of this section) including, among other things:
(A)
Fixed assets and prepaid items.
Real estate; furniture and fixtures; exchange memberships; prepaid rent, insurance and other expenses; goodwill, organization expenses;

# Certain Unsecured and Partly Secured Receivables
(B) All unsecured advances and loans; deficits in customers' and non-customers' unsecured and partly secured notes; deficits in omnibus credit accounts maintained in compliance with the requirements of 12 CFR 220.7(f) of Regulation T under the Act, or similar accounts carried on behalf of another broker or dealer, after application of calls for margin, marks to the market or other required deposits that are outstanding 5 business days or less; deficits in customers' and non-customers' unsecured and partly secured accounts after application of calls for margin, marks to market or other required deposits that are outstanding 5 business days or less, except deficits in cash accounts as defined in 12 CFR 220.8 of Regulation T under the Act for which not more than one extension respecting a specified securities transaction has been requested and granted, and deducting for securities carried in any of
such accounts the percentages specified in paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section or appendix A, § 240.15c3-1a; the market value of stock loaned in excess of the value of any collateral received therefor; receivables arising out of free shipments of securities (other than mutual fund redemptions) in excess of $5,000 per shipment and all free shipments (other than mutual fund redemptions) outstanding more than 7 business days, and mutual fund redemptions outstanding more than 16 business days; and any collateral deficiencies in secured demand notes as defined in appendix D, § 240.15c3-1d; a broker or dealer that participates in a loan of securities by one party to another party will be deemed a principal for the purpose of the deductions required under this section, unless the broker or dealer has fully disclosed the identity of each party to the other and each party has expressly agreed in writing that the obligations of the broker or dealer do not include a guarantee of performance by the other party and that such party's remedies in the event of a default by the other party do not include a right of setoff against obligations, if any, of the broker or dealer.
(C) Interest receivable, floor brokerage receivable, commissions receivable from other brokers or dealers (other than syndicate profits which shall be treated as required in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(E) of this section), mutual fund concessions receivable and management fees receivable from registered investment companies, all of which receivables are outstanding longer than thirty (30) days from the date they arise; dividends receivable outstanding longer than thirty (30) days from the payable date; good faith deposits arising in connection with a non-municipal securities underwriting, outstanding longer than eleven (11) business days from the settlement of the underwriting with the issuer; receivables due from participation in municipal securities underwriting syndicates and municipal securities joint underwriting accounts which are outstanding longer than sixty (60) days from settlement of the underwriting with the issuer and good faith deposits arising in connection with an underwriting of municipal securities, outstanding longer than sixty (60) days from settlement of the underwriting with the issuer; and receivables due from participation in municipal securities secondary trading joint accounts, which are outstanding longer than sixty (60) days from the date all securities have been delivered by the account manager to the account members;
(D)
Insurance claims.
Insurance claims which, after seven (7) business days from the date the loss giving rise to the claim is discovered, are not covered by an opinion of outside counsel that the claim is valid and is covered by insurance policies presently in effect; insurance claims which after twenty (20) business days from the date the loss giving rise to the claim is discovered and which are accompanied by an opinion of outside counsel described above, have not been acknowledged in writing by the insurance carrier as due and payable; and insurance claims acknowledged in writing by the carrier as due and payable outstanding longer than twenty (20) business days from the date they are so acknowledged by the carrier; and,
(E)
Other deductions.
All other unsecured receivables; all assets doubtful of collection less any reserves established therefor; the amount by which the market value of securities failed to receive outstanding longer than thirty (30) calendar days exceeds the contract value of such fails to receive; and the funds on deposit in a “segregated trust account” in accordance with 17 CFR 270.27d-1 under the Investment Company Act of 1940, but only to the extent that the amount on deposit in such segregated trust account exceeds the amount of liability reserves established and maintained for refunds of charges required by sections 27(d) and 27(f) of the Investment Company Act of 1940;
Provided,
That the following need not be deducted:
(
1
) Any amounts deposited in a Customer Reserve Bank Account or PAB Reserve Bank Account pursuant to § 240.15c3-3(e) or in the “special reserve account for the exclusive benefit of security-based swap customers” established pursuant to § 240.15c3-3(p)(3),
(
2
) Cash and securities held in a securities account at a carrying broker or
dealer (except where the account has been subordinated to the claims of creditors of the carrying broker or dealer), and
(
3
) Clearing deposits.
(F)(
1
) For purposes of this paragraph:
(
i
) The term
reverse repurchase agreement deficit
shall mean the difference between the contract price for resale of the securities under a reverse repurchase agreement and the market value of those securities (if less than the contract price).
(
ii
) The term
repurchase agreement deficit
shall mean the difference between the market value of securities subject to the repurchase agreement and the contract price for repurchase of the securities (if less than the market value of the securities).
(
iii
) As used in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(F)(
1
) of this section, the term
contract price
shall include accrued interest.
(
iv
) Reverse repurchase agreement deficits and the repurchase agreement deficits where the counterparty is the Federal Reserve Bank of New York shall be disregarded.
(
2
)(
i
) In the case of a reverse repurchase agreement, the deduction shall be equal to the reverse repurchase agreement deficit.
(
ii
) In determining the required deductions under paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(F)(
2
)(
i
) of this section, the broker or dealer may reduce the reverse repurchase agreement deficit by:
(
A
) Any margin or other deposits held by the broker or dealer on account of the reverse repurchase agreement;
(
B
) Any excess market value of the securities over the contract price for resale of those securities under any other reverse repurchase agreement with the same party;
(
C
) The difference between the contract price for resale and the market value of securities subject to repurchase agreements with the same party (if the market value of those securities is less than the contract price); and
(
D
) Calls for margin, marks to the market, or other required deposits which are outstanding one business day or less.
(
3
) (
i
) In the case of repurchase agreements, the deduction shall be:
(
A
) The excess of the repurchase agreement deficit over 5 percent of the contract price for resale of United States Treasury Bills, Notes and Bonds, 10 percent of the contract price for the resale of securities issued or guaranteed as to principal or interest by an agency of the United States or mortgage related securities as defined in section 3(a)(41) of the Act and 20 percent of the contract price for the resale of other securities and;
(
B
) The excess of the aggregate repurchase agreement deficits with any one party over 25 percent of the broker or dealer's net capital before the application of paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section (less any deduction taken with respect to repurchase agreements with that party under paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(F)(
3
)(
i
)(
A
) of this section) or, if greater;
(
C
) The excess of the aggregate repurchase agreement deficits over 300 percent of the broker's or dealer's net capital before the application of paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section.
(
ii
) In determining the required deduction under paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(F)(
3
)(
i
) of this section, the broker or dealer may reduce a repurchase agreement deficit by:
(
A
) Any margin or other deposits held by the broker or dealer on account of a reverse repurchase agreement with the same party to the extent not otherwise used to reduce a reverse repurchase deficit;
(
B
) The difference between the contract price and the market value of securities subject to other repurchase agreements with the same party (if the market value of those securities is less than the contract price) not otherwise used to reduce a reverse repurchase agreement deficit; and
(
C
) Calls for margin, marks to the market, or other required deposits which are outstanding one business day or less to the extent not otherwise used to reduce a reverse repurchase agreement deficit.
(G)
Securities borrowed.
1 percent of the market value of securities borrowed collateralized by an irrevocable letter of credit.
(H) Any receivable from an affiliate of the broker or dealer (not otherwise
deducted from net worth) and the market value of any collateral given to an affiliate (not otherwise deducted from net worth) to secure a liability over the amount of the liability of the broker or dealer unless the books and records of the affiliate are made available for examination when requested by the representatives of the Commission or the Examining Authority for the broker or dealer in order to demonstrate the validity of the receivable or payable. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply where the affiliate is a registered broker or dealer, registered government securities broker or dealer or bank as defined in section 3(a)(6) of the Act or insurance company as defined in section 3(a)(19) of the Act or investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 or federally insured savings and loan association or futures commission merchant registered pursuant to the Commodity Exchange Act.
(v)(A) Deducting the market value of all short securities differences (which shall include securities positions reflected on the securities record which are not susceptible to either count or confirmation) unresolved after discovery in accordance with the following schedule:
Differences
1
Numbers of business days after discovery
25 percent
7
50 percent
14
75 percent
21
100 percent
28
1
Percentage of market value of short securities differences.
(B) Deducting the market value of any long securities differences, where such securities have been sold by the broker or dealer before they are adequately resolved, less any reserves established therefor;
(C) The designated examining authority for a broker or dealer may extend the periods in (v)(A) of this section for up to 10 business days if it finds that exceptional circumstances warrant an extension.

# Securities Haircuts
(vi) Deducting the percentages specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) (A) through (M) of this section (or the deductions prescribed for securities positions set forth in Appendix A (§ 240.15c3-1a) of the market value of all securities, money market instruments or options in the proprietary or other accounts of the broker or dealer.
(A)(
1
) In the case of a security issued or guaranteed as to principal or interest by the United States or any agency thereof, the applicable percentages of the market value of the net long or short position in each of the categories specified below are:

# Category 1
(
i
) Less than 3 months to maturity—0 percent.
(
ii
) 3 months but less than 6 months to maturity—
1/2
of 1 percent.
(
iii
) 6 months but less than 9 months to maturity—
3/4
of 1 percent.
(
iv
) 9 months but less than 12 months to maturity—1 percent.

# Category 2
(
i
) 1 year but less than 2 years to maturity—1
1/2
percent.
(
ii
) 2 years but less than 3 years to maturity—2 percent.

# Category 3
(
i
) 3 years but less than 5 years to maturity—3%.
(
ii
) 5 years but less than 10 years to maturity—4%.

# Category 4
(
i
) 10 years but less than 15 years to maturity—4
1/2
%.
(
ii
) 15 years but less than 20 years to maturity—5%.
(
iii
) 20 years but less than 25 years to maturity—5
1/2
%.
(
iv
) 25 years or more to maturity—6%.
Brokers or dealers shall compute a deduction for each category above as follows: Compute the deductions for the net long or short positions in each subcategory above. The deduction for the category shall be the net of the aggregate deductions on the long positions and the aggregate deductions on the short positions in each category plus 50% of the lesser of the aggregate deductions on the long or short positions.
(
2
) A broker or dealer may elect to deduct, in lieu of the computation required under paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(A)(
1
) of this section, the applicable percentages of the market value of the net
long or short positions in each of the subcategories specified in paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(A)(
1
) of this section.
(
3
) In computing deductions under paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(A)(
1
) of this section, a broker or dealer may elect to exclude the market value of a long or short security from one category and a security from another category,
Provided,
That:
(
i
) Such securities have maturity dates:
(
A
) Between 9 months and 15 months and within 3 months of one another.
(
B
) Between 2 years and 4 years and within 1 year of one another; or
(
C
) Between 8 years and 12 years and within 2 years of one another.
(
ii
) The net market value of the two excluded securities shall remain in the category of the security with the higher market value.
(
4
) In computing deductions under paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(A)(
1
) of this section, a broker or dealer may include in the categories specified in paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(A)(
1
) of this section, long or short positions in securities issued by the United States or any agency thereof that are deliverable against long or short positions in futures contracts relating to Government securities, traded on a recognized contract market approved by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which are held in the proprietary or other accounts of the broker or dealer. The value of the long or short positions included in the categories shall be determined by the contract value of the futures contract held in the account. The provisions of Appendix B to Rule 15c3-1 (17 CFR 240.15c3-1b) will in any event apply to the positions in futures contracts.
(
5
) In the case of a Government securities dealer that reports to the Federal Reserve System, that transacts business directly with the Federal Reserve System, and that maintains at all times a minimum net capital of at least $50,000,000, before application of the deductions provided for in paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section, the deduction for a security issued or guaranteed as to principal or interest by the United States or any agency thereof shall be 75 percent of the deduction otherwise computed under paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(A) of this section.
(B)(
1
) In the case of any municipal security which has a scheduled maturity at date of issue of 731 days or less and which is issued at par value and pays interest at maturity, or which is issued at a discount, and which is not traded flat or in default as to principal or interest, the applicable percentages of the market value on the greater of the long or short position in each of the categories specified below are:
(
i
) Less than 30 days to maturity—0%.
(
ii
) 30 days but less than 91 days to maturity—
1/8
of 1%.
(
iii
) 91 days but less than 181 days to maturity—
1/4
of 1%.
(
iv
) 181 days but less than 271 days to maturity—
3/8
of 1%.
(
v
) 271 days but less than 366 days to maturity—
1/2
of 1%.
(
vi
) 366 days but less than 456 days to maturity—
3/4
of 1%.
(
vii
) 456 days but less than 732 days to maturity—1%.
(
2
) In the case of any municipal security, other than those specified in paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(B)(
1
), which is not traded flat or in default as to principal or interest, the applicable percentages of the market value of the greater of the long or short position in each of the categories specified below are:
(
i
) Less than 1 year to maturity—1%.
(
ii
) 1 year but less than 2 years to maturity—2%.
(
iii
) 2 years but less than 3
1/2
years to maturity—3%.
(
iv
) 3
1/2
years but less than 5 years to maturity—4%.
(
v
) 5 years but less than 7 years to maturity—5%.
(
vi
) 7 years but less than 10 years to maturity—5
1/2
%.
(
vii
) 10 years but less than 15 years to maturity—6%.
(
viii
) 15 years but less than 20 years to maturity—6
1/2
%.
(
ix
) 20 years or more to maturity—7%.
(C)
Canadian Debt Obligations.
In the case of any security issued or unconditionally guaranteed as to principal and interest by the Government of Canada, the percentages of market value to be deducted shall be the same as in paragraph (A) of this section.
(D)(
1
) In the case of redeemable securities of an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which assets consist of cash or money market instruments and which is described in § 270.2a-7 of this chapter, the deduction will be 2% of the market value of the greater of the long or short position.
(
2
) In the case of redeemable securities of an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which assets are in the form of cash or securities or money market instruments of any maturity which are described in paragraph (c)(2)(vi) (A) through (C) or (E) of this section, the deduction shall be 7% of the market value of the greater of the long or short positions.
(
3
) In the case of redeemable securities of an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which assets are in the form of cash or securities or money market instruments which are described in paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) (A) through (C) or (E) and (F) of this section, the deduction shall be 9% of the market value of the long or short position.
(E)
Commercial paper, bankers' acceptances and certificates of deposit.
In the case of any short term promissory note or evidence of indebtedness which has a fixed rate of interest or is sold at a discount, which has a maturity date at date of issuance not exceeding nine months exclusive of days of grace, or any renewal thereof, the maturity of which is likewise limited and has only a minimal amount of credit risk, or in the case of any negotiable certificates of deposit or bankers' acceptance or similar type of instrument issued or guaranteed by any bank as defined in section 3(a)(6) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(6)), the applicable percentage of the market value of the greater of the long or short position in each of the categories specified below are:
(
1
) Less than 30 days to maturity—0 percent.
(
2
) 30 days but less than 91 days to maturity
1/8
of 1 percent.
(
3
) 91 days but less than 181 days to maturity
1/4
of 1 percent.
(
4
) 181 days but less than 271 days to maturity
3/8
of 1 percent.
(
5
) 271 days but less than 1 year to maturity
1/2
of 1 percent; and
(
6
) With respect to any negotiable certificate of deposit or bankers acceptance or similar type of instrument issued or guaranteed by any bank, as defined above, having 1 year or more to maturity, the deduction shall be on the greater of the long or short position and shall be the same percentage as that prescribed in paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(A) of this section.
(F)(
1
)
Nonconvertible debt securities.
In the case of nonconvertible debt securities having a fixed interest rate and a fixed maturity date, which are not traded flat or in default as to principal or interest and which have only a minimal amount of credit risk, the applicable percentages of the market value of the greater of the long or short position in each of the categories specified below are:
(
i
) Less than 1 year to maturity—2%
(
ii
) 1 year but less than 2 years to maturity—3%
(
iii
) 2 years but less than 3 years to maturity—5%
(
iv
) 3 years but less than 5 years to maturity—6%
(
v
) 5 years but less than 10 years to maturity—7%
(
vi
) 10 years but less than 15 years to maturity—7
1/2
%
(
vii
) 15 years but less than 20 years to maturity—8%
(
viii
) 20 years but less than 25 years to maturity—8
1/2
%
(
ix
) 25 years or more to maturity—9%
(
2
) A broker or dealer may elect to exclude from the above categories long or short positions that are hedged with short or long positions in securities issued by the United States or any agency thereof or nonconvertible debt securities having a fixed interest rate and a fixed maturity date and which are not traded flat or in default as to principal or interest, and which have only a minimal amount of credit risk if such securities have maturity dates:
(
i
) Less than five years and within 6 months of each other;
(
ii
) Between 5 years and 10 years and within 9 months of each other;
(
iii
) Between 10 years and 15 years and within 2 years of each other; or
(
iv
) 15 years or more and within 10 years of each other.
The broker-dealer shall deduct the amounts specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(vi)(F) (
3
) and (
4
) of this section.
(
3
) With respect to those positions described in paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(F)(
2
) of this section that include a long or short position in securities issued by the United States or any agency thereof, the broker or dealer shall exclude the hedging short or long United States or agency securities position from the applicable haircut category under paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(A) of this section. The broker or dealer shall deduct the percentage of the market value of the hedged long or short position in nonconvertible debt securities as specified in each of the categories below:
(
i
) Less than 5 years to maturity—1
1/2
%
(
ii
) 5 years but less than 10 years to maturity—2
1/2
%
(
iii
) 10 years but less than 15 years to maturity—2
3/4
%
(
iv
) 15 years or more to maturity—3%
(
4
) With respect to those positions described in paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(F)(
2
) of this section that include offsetting long and short positions in nonconvertible debt securities, the broker or dealer shall deduct a percentage of the market value of the hedged long or short position in nonconvertible debt securities as specified in each of the categories below:
(
i
) Less than 5 years to maturity—1
3/4
%
(
ii
) 5 years but less than 10 years to maturity—3%
(
iii
) 10 years but less than 15 years to maturity—3
1/4
%
(
iv
) 15 years or more to maturity—3
1/2
%
(
5
) In computing deductions under paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(F)(
3
) of this section, a broker or dealer may include in the categories specified in paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(F)(
3
) of this section, long or short positions in securities issued by the United States or any agency thereof that are deliverable against long or short positions in futures contracts relating to Government securities, traded on a recognized contract market approved by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which are held in the proprietary or other accounts of the broker or dealer. The value of the long or short positions included in the categories shall be determined by the contract value of the futures contract held in the account.
(
6
) The provisions of Appendix B to Rule 15c3-1 (17 CFR 240.15c3-1b) will in any event apply to the positions in futures contracts.
(G)
Convertible debt securities.
In the case of a debt security not in default which has a fixed rate of interest and a fixed maturity date and which is convertible into an equity security, the deductions shall be as follows: If the market value is 100 percent or more of the principal amount, the deduction shall be determined as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(J) of this section; if the market value is less than the principal amount, the deduction shall be determined as specified in paragraph (F) of this section; if such securities are rated as required of paragraph (F) of this section;
(H) In the case of cumulative, non-convertible preferred stock ranking prior to all other classes of stock of the same issuer, which has only a minimal amount of credit risk and which are not in arrears as to dividends, the deduction shall be 10% of the market value of the greater of the long or short position.
(I) In order to apply a deduction under paragraphs (c)(2)(vi)(E), (c)(2)(vi)(F)(
1
), (c)(2)(vi)(F)(
2
), or (c)(2)(vi)(H) of this section, the broker or dealer must assess the creditworthiness of the security or money market instrument pursuant to policies and procedures for assessing and monitoring creditworthiness that the broker or dealer establishes, documents, maintains, and enforces. The policies and procedures must be reasonably designed for the purpose of determining whether a security or money market instrument has only a minimal amount of credit risk. Policies and procedures that are reasonably designed for this purpose should result in assessments of creditworthiness that typically are consistent with market data. A broker-dealer that opts not to make an assessment of creditworthiness under this paragraph may not apply the deductions under paragraphs
(c)(2)(vi)(E), (c)(2)(vi)(F)(1), (c)(2)(vi)(F)(2), or (c)(2)(vi)(H) of this section.

# Note to paragraph (
c

# )(2)(
vi

# )(I):
For a discussion of the “minimal amount of credit risk” standard,
see Removal of Certain References to Credit Ratings Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
Exchange Act Release No. 34-71194 (Dec. 27, 2013), at
http://www.sec.gov/rules/final.shtml.

# All Other Securities
(J) In the case of all securities or evidences of indebtedness, except those described in appendix A, § 240.15c3-1a, which are not included in any of the percentage categories enumerated in paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) (A) through (H) of this section or paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(K)(ii) of this section, the deduction shall be 15 percent of the market value of the greater of the long or short positions and to the extent the market value of the lesser of the long or short positions exceeds 25 percent of the market value of the greater of the long or short positions, the percentage deduction on such excess shall be 15 percent of the market value of such excess. No deduction need be made in the case of:
(
1
) A security that is convertible into or exchangeable for another security within a period of 90 days, subject to no conditions other than the payment of money, and the other securities into which such security is convertible or for which it is exchangeable, are short in the accounts of such broker or dealer; or
(
2
) A security that has been called for redemption and that is redeemable within 90 days.
(K)
Securities with a limited market.
In the case of securities (other than exempted securities, nonconvertible debt securities, and cumulative nonconvertible preferred stock) which are not: (
1
) Traded on a national securities exchange; (
2
) designated as “OTC Margin Stock” pursuant to Regulation T under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; (
3
) quoted on “NASDAQ”; or (
4
) redeemable shares of investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, the deduction shall be as follows:
(
i
) In the case where there are regular quotations in an inter-dealer quotations system for the securities by three or more independent market-makers (exclusive of the computing broker or dealer) and where each such quotation represents a bona fide offer to brokers or dealers to both buy and sell in reasonable quantities at stated prices, or where a ready market as defined in paragraph (c)(11) (ii) is deemed to exist, the deduction shall be determined in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(J) of this section;
(
ii
) In the case where there are regular quotations in an inter-dealer quotations system for the securities by only one or two independent market-makers (exclusive of the computing broker or dealer) and where each such quotation represents a bona fide offer to brokers or dealers both to buy and sell in reasonable quantities, at stated prices, the deduction on both the long and short position shall be 40 percent.
(L) Where a broker or dealer demonstrates that there is sufficient liquidity for any securities long or short in the proprietary or other accounts of the broker or dealer which are subject to a deduction required by paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(K) of this section, such deduction, upon a proper showing to the Examining Authority for the broker or dealer, may be appropriately decreased, but in no case shall such deduction be less than that prescribed in paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(J) of this section.

# Undue Concentration
(M)(
1
) In the case of money market instruments, or securities of a single class or series of an issuer, including any option written, endorsed or held to purchase or sell securities of such a single class or series of an issuer (other than “exempted securities” and redeemable securities of an investment company registered pursuant to the Investment Company Act of 1940), and securities underwritten (in which case the deduction provided for herein shall be applied after 11 business days), which are long or short in the proprietary or other accounts of a broker or dealer, including securities that are collateral to secured demand notes defined in appendix D, § 240.15c3-1d, and that have a market value of more than 10 percent of the “net capital” of a broker or dealer before the application of paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section or
appendix A, § 240.15c3-1a, there shall be an additional deduction from net worth and/or the Collateral Value for securities collateralizing a secured demand note defined in appendix D, § 240.15c3-1d, equal to 50 percent of the percentage deduction otherwise provided by this paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section or appendix A, § 240.15c3-1a, on that portion of the securities position in excess of 10 percent of the “net capital” of the broker or dealer before the application of paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section and appendix A, § 240.15c3-1a. In the case of securities described in paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(J), the additional deduction required by this paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(M) shall be 15 percent.
(
2
) This paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(M) shall apply notwithstanding any long or short position exemption provided for in paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(J) of this section (except for long or short position exemptions arising out of the first proviso to paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(J)) and the deduction on any such exempted position shall be 15 percent of that portion of the securities position in excess of 10 percent of the broker or dealer's net capital before the application of paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section and appendix A, § 240.15c3-1a.
(
3
) This paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(M) shall be applied to an issue of equity securities only on the market value of such securities in excess of $10,000 or the market value of 500 shares, whichever is greater, or $25,000 in the case of a debt security.
(
4
) This paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(M) will be applied to an issue of municipal securities having the same security provisions, date of issue, interest rate, day, month and year of maturity only if such securities have a market value in excess of $500,000 in bonds ($5,000,000 in notes) or 10 percent of tentative net capital, whichever is greater, and are held in position longer than 20 business days from the date the securities are received by the syndicate manager from the issuer.
(
5
) Any specialist that is subject to a deduction required by this paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(M), respecting its specialty stock, that can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Examining Authority for such broker or dealer that there is sufficient liquidity for such specialist's specialty stock and that such deduction need not be applied in the public interest for the protection of investors, may upon a proper showing to such Examining Authority have such undue concentration deduction appropriately decreased, but in no case shall the deduction prescribed in paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(J) of this section above be reduced. Each such Examining Authority shall make and preserve for a period of not less than 3 years a record of each application granted pursuant to this paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(M)(5), which shall contain a summary of the justification for the granting of the application.
(N) Any specialist that limits its securities business to that of a specialist (except for an occasional non-specialist related securities transaction for its own account), that does not transact a business in securities with other than a broker or dealer registered with the Commission under section 15 or 15C of the Act or a member of a national securities exchange, and that is not a clearing member of The Options Clearing Corporation need not deduct from net worth in computing net capital those deductions, as to its specialty securities, set forth in paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section or appendix A to this section, except for paragraph (e) of this section limiting withdrawals of equity capital and appendix D to this section relating to satisfactory subordination agreements. As to a specialist that is solely an options specialist, in paragraph (e) the term “net capital” shall be deemed to mean “net capital before the application of paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section or appendix A to this section” and “excess net capital” shall be deemed to be the amount of net capital before the application of paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section or appendix A to this section in excess of the amount of net capital required under paragraph (a) of this section. In reports filed pursuant to § 240.17a-5 and in making the record required by § 240.17a-3(a)(11) each specialists shall include the deductions that would otherwise have been required by paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section or appendix A to this section in the absence of this paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(N).
(O)
Cleared security-based swaps.
In the case of a cleared security-based
swap held in a proprietary account of the broker or dealer, deducting the amount of the applicable margin requirement of the clearing agency or, if the security-based swap references an equity security, the broker or dealer may take a deduction using the method specified in § 240.15c3-1a.
(P)
Non-cleared security-based swaps
—(
1
)
Credit default swaps
—(
i
)
Short positions (selling protection).
In the case of a non-cleared security-based swap that is a short credit default swap, deducting the percentage of the notional amount based upon the current basis point spread of the credit default swap and the maturity of the credit default swap in accordance with table 1 to § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(P)(
1
)(
i
):
Table 1 to § 240.15
c
3-1(
c
)(2)(
vi
)(P)(
1
)(
i
)
Length of time to maturity of credit default swap contract
Basis point spread
100 or less
%
101-300
%
301-400
%
401-500
%
501-699
%
700 or more
%
Less than 12 months
1.00
2.00
5.00
7.50
10.00
15.00
12 months but less than 24 months
1.50
3.50
7.50
10.00
12.50
17.50
24 months but less than 36 months
2.00
5.00
10.00
12.50
15.00
20.00
36 months but less than 48 months
3.00
6.00
12.50
15.00
17.50
22.50
48 months but less than 60 months
4.00
7.00
15.00
17.50
20.00
25.00
60 months but less than 72 months
5.50
8.50
17.50
20.00
22.50
27.50
72 months but less than 84 months
7.00
10.00
20.00
22.50
25.00
30.00
84 months but less than 120 months
8.50
15.00
22.50
25.00
27.50
40.00
120 months and longer
10.00
20.00
25.00
27.50
30.00
50.00
(
ii
)
Long positions (purchasing protection).
In the case of a non-cleared security-based swap that is a long credit default swap, deducting 50 percent of the deduction that would be required by paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(P)(
1
)(
i
) of this section if the non-cleared security-based swap was a short credit default swap, each such deduction not to exceed the current market value of the long position.
(
iii
)
Long and short credit default swaps.
In the case of non-cleared security-based swaps that are long and short credit default swaps referencing the same entity (in the case of non-cleared credit default swap security-based swaps referencing a corporate entity) or obligation (in the case of non-cleared credit default swap security-based swaps referencing an asset-backed security), that have the same credit events which would trigger payment by the seller of protection, that have the same basket of obligations which would determine the amount of payment by the seller of protection upon the occurrence of a credit event, that are in the same or adjacent spread category, and that are in the same or adjacent maturity category and have a maturity date within three months of the other maturity category, deducting the percentage of the notional amount specified in the higher maturity category under paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(P)(
1
)(
i
) or (
ii
) on the excess of the long or short position. In the case of non-cleared security-based swaps that are long and short credit default swaps referencing corporate entities in the same industry sector and the same spread and maturity categories prescribed in paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(P)(
1
)(
i
) of this section, deducting 50 percent of the amount required by paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(P)(
1
)(
i
) of this section on the short position plus the deduction required by paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(P)(
1
)(
ii
) of this section on the excess long position, if any. For the purposes of this section, the broker or dealer must use an industry sector classification system that is reasonable in terms of grouping types of companies with similar business activities and risk characteristics and the broker or dealer must document the industry sector classification system used pursuant to this section.
(
iv
)
Long security and long credit default swap.
In the case of a non-cleared security-based swap that is a long credit default swap referencing a debt security and the broker or dealer is long the same debt security, deducting 50 percent of the amount specified in paragraph (c)(2)(vi) or (vii) of this section for the debt security, provided
that the broker or dealer can deliver the debt security to satisfy the obligation of the broker or dealer on the credit default swap.
(
v
)
Short security and short credit default swap.
In the case of a non-cleared security-based swap that is a short credit default swap referencing a debt security or a corporate entity, and the broker or dealer is short the debt security or a debt security issued by the corporate entity, deducting the amount specified in paragraph (c)(2)(vi) or (vii) of this section for the debt security. In the case of a non-cleared security-based swap that is a short credit default swap referencing an asset-backed security and the broker or dealer is short the asset-backed security, deducting the amount specified in paragraph (c)(2)(vi) or (vii) of this section for the asset-backed security.
(
2
)
Non-cleared security-based swaps that are not credit default swaps.
In the case of a non-cleared security-based swap that is not a credit default swap, deducting the amount calculated by multiplying the notional amount of the security-based swap and the percentage specified in paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section applicable to the reference security. A broker or dealer may reduce the deduction under this paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(P)(
2
) by an amount equal to any reduction recognized for a comparable long or short position in the reference security under paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section and, in the case of a security-based swap referencing an equity security, the method specified in § 240.15c3-1a.
(vii)
Non-marketable securities.
Deducting 100 percent of the carrying value in the case of securities or evidence of indebtedness in the proprietary or other accounts of the broker or dealer, for which there is no ready market, as defined in paragraph (c)(11) of this section, and securities, in the proprietary or other accounts of the broker or dealer, which cannot be publicly offered or sold because of statutory, regulatory or contractual arrangements or other restrictions.

# Open Contractual Commitments
(viii) Deducting, in the case of a broker or dealer that has open contractual commitments (other than those option positions subject to appendix A, § 240.15c3-1a), the respective deductions as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section or appendix B, § 240.15c3-1b, from the value (which shall be the market value whenever there is a market) of each net long and each net short position contemplated by any open contractual commitment in the proprietary or other accounts of the broker or dealer.
(A) The deduction for contractual commitments in those securities that are treated in paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(J) of this section shall be 30 percent unless the class and issue of the securities subject to the open contractual commitment deduction are listed for trading on a national securities exchange or are designated as NASDAQ National Market System Securities.
(B) A broker or dealer that maintains in excess of $250,000 of net capital may add back to net worth up to $150,000 of any deduction computed under this paragraph (c)(2)(viii)(B).
(C) The deduction with respect to any single commitment shall be reduced by the unrealized profit in such commitment, in an amount not greater than the deduction provided for by this paragraph (or increased by the unrealized loss), in such commitment, and in no event shall an unrealized profit on any closed transactions operate to increase net capital.
(ix) Deducting from the contract value of each failed to deliver contract that is outstanding five business days or longer (21 business days or longer in the case of municipal securities) the percentages of the market value of the underlying security that would be required by application of the deduction required by paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section. Such deduction, however, shall be increased by any excess of the contract price of the failed to deliver contract over the market value of the underlying security or reduced by any excess of the market value of the underlying security over the contract value of the failed to deliver contract, but not to exceed the amount of such deduction. The designated examining authority for the broker or dealer may, upon application of the broker or dealer, extend for a period up to 5 business days, any period herein specified when
it is satisfied that the extension is warranted. The designated examining authority upon expiration of the extension may extend for one additional period of up to 5 business days, any period herein specified when it is satisfied that the extension is warranted.

# Brokers or Dealers Carrying Accounts of Listed Options Specialists
(x)(A) With respect to any transaction of a specialist in listed options, who is either not otherwise subject to the provisions of this section or is described in paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(N) of this section, for whose specialist account a broker or dealer acts as a guarantor, endorser, or carrying broker or dealer, such broker or dealer shall adjust its net worth by deducting as of noon of each business day the amounts computed as of the prior business day pursuant to § 240.15c3-1a. The required deductions may be reduced by any liquidating equity that exists in such specialist's market-maker account as of that time and shall be increased to the extent of any liquidating deficit in such account. Noon shall be determined according to the local time where the broker or dealer is headquartered. In no event shall excess equity in the specialist's market-maker account result in an increase of the net capital of any such guarantor, endorser, or carrying broker or dealer.
(B)
Definitions.
(
1
) The term
listed option
shall mean any option traded on a registered national securities exchange or automated facility of a registered national securities association.
(
2
) For purposes of this section, the equity in an individual specialist's market-maker account shall be computed by:
(
i
) Marking all securities positions long or short in the account to their respective current market values;
(
ii
) Adding (deducting in the case of a debit balance) the credit balance carried in such specialist's market-maker account; and
(
iii
) Adding (deducting in the case of short positions) the market value of positions long in such account.
(C) No guarantor, endorser, or carrying broker or dealer shall permit the sum of the deductions required pursuant to § 240.15c3-1a in respect of all transactions in specialists' market-maker accounts guaranteed, endorsed, or carried by such broker or dealer to exceed 1,000 percent of such broker's or dealer's net capital as defined in § 240.15c3-1(c)(2) for any period exceeding three business days. If at any time such sum exceeds 1,000 percent of such broker's or dealer's net capital, then the broker or dealer shall:
(
1
) Immediately transmit telegraphic or facsimile notice of such event to the Division of Market Regulation in the headquarters office of the Commission in Washington, DC, to the regional office of the Commission for the region in which the broker or dealer maintains its principal place of business, and to its examining authority designated pursuant to section 17(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q(d)) (“Designated Examining Authority”); and
(
2
) Be subject to the prohibitions against withdrawal of equity capital set forth in § 240.15c3-1(e) and to the prohibitions against reduction, prepayment, and repayment of subordination agreements set forth in paragraph (b)(11) of § 240.15c3-1d, as if such broker or dealer's net capital were below the minimum standards specified by each of those paragraphs.
(D) If at any time there is a liquidating deficit in a specialist's market-maker account, then the broker or dealer guaranteeing, endorsing, or carrying listed options transactions in such specialist's market-maker account may not extend any further credit in that account, and shall take steps to liquidate promptly existing positions in the account. This paragraph shall not prevent the broker or dealer from, upon approval by the broker's or dealer's Designated Examining Authority, entering into hedging positions in the specialist's market-maker account. The broker or dealer also shall transmit telegraphic or facsimile notice of the deficit and its amount by the close of business of the following business day to its Designated Examining Authority and the Designated Examining Authority of the specialist, if different from its own.
(E) Upon written application to the Commission by the specialist and the broker or dealer guaranteeing, endorsing, or carrying options transactions in
such specialist's market-maker account, the Commission may approve upon specified terms and conditions lesser adjustments to net worth than those specified in § 240.15c3-1a.
(xi)
Brokers or dealers carrying specialists or market makers accounts.
With respect to a broker or dealer who carries a market maker or specialist account, or with respect to any transaction in options listed on a registered national securities exchange for which a broker or dealer acts as a guarantor or endorser of options written by a specialist in a specialist account, the broker or dealer shall deduct, for each account carried or for each class or series of options guaranteed or endorsed, any deficiency in collateral required by paragraph (a)(6) of this section.
(xii)(A)
Deduction from net worth for certain undermargined accounts.
Deducting the amount of cash required in each customer's or non-customer's account to meet the maintenance margin requirements of the Examining Authority for the broker or dealer, after application of calls for margin, marks to the market or other required deposits which are outstanding 5 business days or less.
(B) Deducting the amount of cash required in the account of each security-based swap and swap customer to meet the margin requirements of a clearing agency, Examining Authority, the Commission, derivatives clearing organization, or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, as applicable, after application of calls for margin, marks to the market, or other required deposits which are outstanding within the required time frame to collect the margin, mark to the market, or other required deposits.
(xiii)
Deduction from net worth for indebtedness collateralized by exempted securities.
Deducting, at the option of the broker or dealer, in lieu of including such amounts in aggregate indebtedness, 4 percent of the amount of any indebtedness secured by exempted securities or municipal securities if such indebtedness would otherwise be includable in aggregate indebtedness.
(xiv)
Deduction from net worth for excess deductible amounts related to fidelity bond coverage.
Deducting the amount specified by rule of the Examining Authority for the broker or dealer with respect to a requirement to maintain fidelity bond coverage.
(xv)
Deduction from net worth in lieu of collecting collateral for non-cleared security-based swap and swap transactions
—(A)
Security-based swaps.
Deducting the initial margin amount calculated pursuant to § 240.18a-3(c)(1)(i)(B) for the account of a counterparty at the broker or dealer that is subject to a margin exception set forth in § 240.18a-3(c)(1)(iii), less the margin value of collateral held in the account.
(B)
Swaps.
Deducting the initial margin amount calculated pursuant to the margin rules of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission in the account of a counterparty at the broker or dealer that is subject to a margin exception in those rules, less the margin value of collateral held in the account.
(C)
Treatment of collateral held at a third-party custodian.
For the purposes of the deductions required pursuant to paragraphs (c)(2)(xv)(A) and (B) of this section, collateral held by an independent third-party custodian as initial margin may be treated as collateral held in the account of the counterparty at the broker or dealer if:
(
1
) The independent third-party custodian is a bank as defined in section 3(a)(6) of the Act or a registered U.S. clearing organization or depository that is not affiliated with the counterparty or, if the collateral consists of foreign securities or currencies, a supervised foreign bank, clearing organization, or depository that is not affiliated with the counterparty and that customarily maintains custody of such foreign securities or currencies;
(
2
) The broker or dealer, the independent third-party custodian, and the counterparty that delivered the collateral to the custodian have executed an account control agreement governing the terms under which the custodian holds and releases collateral pledged by the counterparty as initial margin that is a legal, valid, binding, and enforceable agreement under the laws of all relevant jurisdictions, including in the event of bankruptcy, insolvency, or a similar proceeding of any of the parties to the agreement, and that provides the broker or dealer with the right to
access the collateral to satisfy the counterparty's obligations to the broker or dealer arising from transactions in the account of the counterparty; and
(
3
) The broker or dealer maintains written documentation of its analysis that in the event of a legal challenge the relevant court or administrative authorities would find the account control agreement to be legal, valid, binding, and enforceable under the applicable law, including in the event of the receivership, conservatorship, insolvency, liquidation, or a similar proceeding of any of the parties to the agreement.

# Exempted Securities
(3) The term
exempted securities
shall mean those securities deemed exempted securities by section 3(a)(12) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and rules thereunder.

# Contractual Commitments
(4) The term
contractual commitments
shall include underwriting, when issued, when distributed and delayed delivery contracts, the writing or endorsement of puts and calls and combinations thereof, commitments in foreign currencies, and spot (cash) commodities contracts, but shall not include uncleared regular way purchases and sales of securities and contracts in commodities futures. A series of contracts of purchase or sale of the same security conditioned, if at all, only upon issuance may be treated as an individual commitment.

# Adequately Secured
(5) Indebtedness shall be deemed to be adequately secured within the meaning of this section when the excess of the market value of the collateral over the amount of the indebtedness is sufficient to make the loan acceptable as a fully secured loan to banks regularly making secured loans to brokers or dealers.

# Customer
(6) The term
customer
shall mean any person from whom, or on whose behalf, a broker or dealer has received, acquired or holds funds or securities for the account of such person, but shall not include a broker or dealer or a registered municipal securities dealer, or a general, special or limited partner or director or officer of the broker or dealer, or any person to the extent that such person has a claim for property or funds which by contract, agreement, or understanding, or by operation of law, is part of the capital of the broker or dealer.
Provided, however,
That the term “customer” shall also include a broker or dealer, but only insofar as such broker or dealer maintains a special omnibus account carried with another broker or dealer in compliance with 12 CFR 220.4(b) of Regulation T under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

# Non-Customer
(7) The term
non-customer
means a broker or dealer, registered municipal securities dealer, general partner, limited partner, officer, director and persons to the extent their claims are subordinated to the claims of creditors of the broker or dealer.

# Market Maker
(8) The term
market maker
shall mean a dealer who, with respect to a particular security, (i) regularly publishes bona fide, competitive bid and offer quotations in a recognized interdealer quotation system; or (ii) furnishes bona fide competitive bid and offer quotations on request; and, (iii) is ready, willing and able to effect transactions in reasonable quantities at his quoted prices with other brokers or dealers.

# Promptly Transmit and Deliver
(9) A broker or dealer is deemed to “promptly transmit” all funds and to “promptly deliver” all securities within the meaning of paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (a)(2)(v) of this section where such transmission or delivery is made no later than noon of the next business day after the receipt of such funds or securities; provided, however, that such prompt transmission or delivery shall not be required to be effected prior to the settlement date for such transaction.

# Promptly Forward
(10) A broker or dealer is deemed to “promptly forward” funds or securities within the meaning of paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section only when such forwarding occurs no later than noon of the next business day following receipt of such funds or securities.

# Ready Market
(11)(i) The term
ready market
shall include a recognized established securities market in which there exists independent bona fide offers to buy and sell so that a price reasonably related to the last sales price or current bona fide competitive bid and offer quotations can be determined for a particular security almost instantaneously and where payment will be received in settlement of a sale at such price within a relatively short time conforming to trade custom.
(ii) A
ready market
shall also be deemed to exist where securities have been accepted as collateral for a loan by a bank as defined in section 3(a)(6) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and where the broker or dealer demonstrates to its Examining Authority that such securities adequately secure such loans as that term is defined in paragraph (c)(5) of this section.

# Examining Authority
(12) The term
Examining Authority
of a broker or dealer shall mean for the purposes of 17 CFR 240.15c3-1 and 240.15c3-1a-d the national securities exchange or national securities association of which the broker or dealer is a member or, if the broker or dealer is a member of more than one such self-regulatory organization, the organization designated by the Commission as the Examining Authority for such broker or dealer, or if the broker or dealer is not a member of any such self-regulatory organization, the Regional Office of the Commission where such broker or dealer has its principal place of business.

# Entities That Have a Principal Regulator
(13)(i) For purposes of § 240.15c3-1e and § 240.15c3-1g, the term
entity that has a principal regulator
shall mean a person (other than a natural person) that is not a registered broker or dealer (other than a broker or dealer registered under section 15(b)(11) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(11)), provided that the person is:
(A) An insured depository institution as defined in section 3(c)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(2));
(B) Registered as a futures commission merchant or an introducing broker with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission;
(C) Registered with or licensed by a State insurance regulator and issues any insurance, endowment, or annuity policy or contract;
(D) A foreign bank as defined in section 1(b)(7) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3101(7)) that has its headquarters in a jurisdiction for which any foreign bank has been approved by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to conduct business pursuant to the standards set forth in 12 CFR 211.24(c), provided such foreign bank represents to the Commission that it is subject to the same supervisory regime as the foreign bank previously approved by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System;
(E) Not primarily in the securities business, and the person is:
(
1
) A corporation organized under section 25A of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 611 through 633); or
(
2
) A corporation having an agreement or undertaking with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 601 through 604a); or
(F) A person that the Commission finds is another entity that is subject to comprehensive supervision, has in place appropriate arrangements so that information that the person provides to the Commission is sufficiently reliable for the purposes of determining compliance with § 240.15c3-1e and § 240.15c3-1g, and it is appropriate to consider the person to be an entity that has a principal regulator considering all relevant circumstances, including the person's mix of business.
(ii) For purposes of §§ 240.15c3-1e, 240.15c3-1g, 240.17h-1T, and 240.17h2T,
the term
ultimate holding company that has a principal regulator
shall mean a person (other than a natural person) that:
(A) Is a financial holding company or a company that is treated as a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1840
et seq.
), or
(B) The Commission determines to be an ultimate holding company that has a principal regulator, if that person is subject to consolidated, comprehensive supervision; there are in place appropriate arrangements so that information that the person provides to the Commission is sufficiently reliable for the purposes of determining compliance with § 240.15c3-1e and § 240.15c3-1g; and it is appropriate to consider the person to be an ultimate holding company that has a principal regulator in view of all relevant circumstances, including the person's mix of business.
(14) The term
municipal securities
shall mean those securities included within the definition of “municipal securities” in section 3(a)(29) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(15) The term
tentative net capital
shall mean the net capital of a broker or dealer before deducting the securities haircuts computed pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section and the charges on inventory computed pursuant to appendix B to this section (§ 240.15c3-1b). However, for purposes of paragraph (a)(5) of this section, the term
tentative net capital
means the net capital of an OTC derivatives dealer before deducting the charges for market and credit risk as computed pursuant to appendix F to this section (§ 240.15c3-1f) or paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section, if applicable, and increased by the balance sheet value (including counterparty net exposure) resulting from transactions in eligible OTC derivative instruments which would otherwise be deducted by virtue of paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section. For purposes of paragraph (a)(7) of this section, the term
tentative net capital
means the net capital of the broker or dealer before deductions for market and credit risk computed pursuant to § 240.15c3-1e or paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section, if applicable, and increased by the balance sheet value (including counterparty net exposure) resulting from transactions in derivative instruments which would otherwise be deducted by virtue of paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section. Tentative net capital shall include securities for which there is no ready market, as defined in paragraph (c)(11) of this section, if the use of mathematical models has been approved for purposes of calculating deductions from net capital for those securities pursuant to § 240.15c3-1e.

# Insolvent
(16) For the purposes of this section, a broker or dealer is insolvent if the broker or dealer:
(i) Is the subject of any bankruptcy, equity receivership proceeding or any other proceeding to reorganize, conserve, or liquidate such broker or dealer or its property or is applying for the appointment or election of a receiver, trustee, or liquidator or similar official for such broker or dealer or its property;
(ii) Has made a general assignment for the benefit of creditors;
(iii) Is insolvent within the meaning of section 101 of title 11 of the United States Code, or is unable to meet its obligations as they mature, and has made an admission to such effect in writing or in any court or before any agency of the United States or any State; or
(iv) Is unable to make such computations as may be necessary to establish compliance with this section or with § 240.15c3-3.
(17) The term
risk margin amount
means the sum of:
(i) The total initial margin required to be maintained by the broker or dealer at each clearing agency with respect to security-based swap transactions cleared for security-based swap customers; and
(ii) The total initial margin amount calculated by the broker or dealer with respect to non-cleared security-based swaps pursuant to § 240.18a-3(c)(1)(i)(B).
(d)
Debt-equity requirements.
No broker or dealer shall permit the total of outstanding principal amounts of its satisfactory subordination agreements (other than such agreements which
qualify under this paragraph (d) as equity capital) to exceed 70 percent of its debt-equity total, as hereinafter defined, for a period in excess of 90 days or for such longer period which the Commission may, upon application of the broker or dealer, grant in the public interest or for the protection of investors. In the case of a corporation, the debt-equity total shall be the sum of its outstanding principal amounts of satisfactory subordination agreements, par or stated value of capital stock, paid in capital in excess of par, retained earnings, unrealized profit and loss or other capital accounts. In the case of a partnership, the debt-equity total shall be the sum of its outstanding principal amounts of satisfactory subordination agreements, capital accounts of partners (exclusive of such partners' securities accounts) subject to the provisions of paragraph (e) of this section, and unrealized profit and loss. In the case of a sole proprietorship, the debt-equity total shall include the sum of its outstanding principal amounts of satisfactory subordination agreements, capital accounts of the sole proprietorship and unrealized profit and loss.
Provided, however,
That a satisfactory subordination agreement entered into by a partner or stockholder which has an initial term of at least three years and has a remaining term of not less than 12 months shall be considered equity for the purposes of this paragraph (d) if:
(1) It does not have any of the provisions for accelerated maturity provided for by paragraphs (b)(9)(i), (10)(i) or (10)(ii) of Appendix (D) (17 CFR 240.15c3-1d) and is maintained as capital subject to the provisions restricting the withdrawal thereof required by paragraph (e) of this section or
(2) The partnership agreement provides that capital contributed pursuant to a satisfactory subordination agreement as defined in Appendix (D) (17 CFR 240.15c3-1d) shall in all respects be partnership capital subject to the provisions restricting the withdrawal thereof required by paragraph (e) of this section.
(e)(1)
Notice provisions relating to limitations on the withdrawal of equity capital.
No equity capital of the broker or dealer or a subsidiary or affiliate consolidated pursuant to appendix C (17 CFR 240.15c3-1c) may be withdrawn by action of a stockholder or a partner or by redemption or repurchase of shares of stock by any of the consolidated entities or through the payment of dividends or any similar distribution, nor may any unsecured advance or loan be made to a stockholder, partner, sole proprietor, employee or affiliate without written notice given in accordance with paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section:
(i) Two business days prior to any withdrawals, advances or loans if those withdrawals, advances or loans on a net basis exceed in the aggregate in any 30 calendar day period, 30 percent of the broker or dealer's excess net capital. A broker or dealer, in an emergency situation, may make withdrawals, advances or loans that on a net basis exceed 30 percent of the broker or dealer's excess net capital in any 30 calendar day period without giving the advance notice required by this paragraph, with the prior approval of its Examining Authority. Where a broker or dealer makes a withdrawal with the consent of its Examining Authority, it shall in any event comply with paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section; or
(ii) Two business days after any withdrawals, advances or loans if those withdrawals, advances or loans on a net basis exceed in the aggregate in any 30 calendar day period, 20 percent of the broker or dealer's excess net capital.
(iii) This paragraph (e)(1) does not apply to:
(A) Securities or commodities transactions in the ordinary course of business between a broker or dealer and an affiliate where the broker or dealer makes payment to or on behalf of such affiliate for such transaction and then receives payment from such affiliate for the securities or commodities transaction within two business days from the date of the transaction; or
(B) Withdrawals, advances or loans which in the aggregate in any thirty calendar day period, on a net basis, equal $500,000 or less.
(iv) Each required notice shall be effective when received by the Commission in Washington, DC, the regional
office of the Commission for the region in which the broker or dealer has its principal place of business, the broker or dealer's Examining Authority and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission if such broker or dealer is registered with that Commission.
(2)
Limitations on Withdrawal of equity capital.
No equity capital of the broker or dealer or a subsidiary or affiliate consolidated pursuant to appendix C (17 CFR 240.15c3-1c) may be withdrawn by action of a stockholder or a partner or by redemption or repurchase of shares of stock by any of the consolidated entities or through the payment of dividends or any similar distribution, nor may any unsecured advance or loan be made to a stockholder, partner, sole proprietor, employee or affiliate, if after giving effect thereto and to any other such withdrawals, advances or loans and any Payments of Payment Obligations (as defined in appendix D (17 CFR 240.15c3-1d)) under satisfactory subordination agreements which are scheduled to occur within 180 days following such withdrawal, advance or loan if:
(i) The broker or dealer's net capital would be less than 120 percent of the minimum dollar amount required by paragraph (a) of this section;
(ii) The broker-dealer is registered as a futures commission merchant, its net capital would be less than 7 percent of the funds required to be segregated pursuant to the Commodity Exchange Act and the regulations thereunder (less the market value of commodity options purchased by option customers on or subject to the rules of a contract market, each such deduction not to exceed the amount of funds in the option customer's account);
(iii) The broker-dealer's net capital would be less than 25 percent of deductions from net worth in computing net capital required by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi), (f) and appendix A, of this section, unless the broker or dealer has the prior approval of the Commission to make such withdrawal;
(iv) The total outstanding principal amounts of satisfactory subordination agreements of the broker or dealer and any subsidiaries or affiliates consolidated pursuant to appendix C (17 CFR 240.15c3-1c) (other than such agreements which qualify as equity under paragraph (d) of this section) would exceed 70% of the debt-equity total as defined in paragraph (d) of this section;
(v) The broker or dealer is subject to the aggregate indebtedness limitations of paragraph (a) of this section, the aggregate indebtedness of any of the consolidated entities exceeds 1000 percent of its net capital; or
(vi) The broker or dealer is subject to the alternative net capital requirement of paragraph (f) of this section, its net capital would be less than 5 percent of aggregate debit items computed in accordance with 17 CFR 240.15c3-3a.
(3)(i)
Temporary restrictions on withdrawal of net capital.
The Commission may by order restrict, for a period of up to twenty business days, any withdrawal by the broker or dealer of equity capital or unsecured loan or advance to a stockholder, partner, sole proprietor, member, employee or affiliate under such terms and conditions as the Commission deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest or consistent with the protection of investors if the Commission, based on the information available, concludes that such withdrawal, advance or loan may be detrimental to the financial integrity of the broker or dealer, or may unduly jeopardize the broker or dealer's ability to repay its customer claims or other liabilities which may cause a significant impact on the markets or expose the customers or creditors of the broker or dealer to loss without taking into account the application of the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970.
(ii) An order temporarily prohibiting the withdrawal of capital shall be rescinded if the Commission determines that the restriction on capital withdrawal should not remain in effect. A hearing on an order temporarily prohibiting the withdrawal of capital will be held within two business days from the date of the request in writing by the broker or dealer.
(4)(i)
Miscellaneous provisions.
Excess net capital is that amount in excess of the amount required under paragraph (a) of this section. For the purposes of paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section, a broker or dealer may use the
amount of excess net capital and deductions required under paragraphs (c)(2)(vi), (f) and appendix A of this section reported in its most recently required filed Form X-17A-5 for the purposes of calculating the effect of a projected withdrawal, advance or loan relative to excess net capital or deductions. The broker or dealer must assure itself that the excess net capital or the deductions reported on the most recently required filed Form X-17A-5 have not materially changed since the time such report was filed.
(ii) The term equity capital includes capital contributions by partners, par or stated value of capital stock, paid-in capital in excess of par, retained earnings or other capital accounts. The term equity capital does not include securities in the securities accounts of partners and balances in limited partners' capital accounts in excess of their stated capital contributions.
(iii) Paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section shall not preclude a broker or dealer from making required tax payments or preclude the payment to partners of reasonable compensation, and such payments shall not be included in the calculation of withdrawals, advances, or loans for purposes of paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section.
(iv) For the purpose of this paragraph (e) of this section, any transaction between a broker or dealer and a stockholder, partner, sole proprietor, employee or affiliate that results in a diminution of the broker or dealer's net capital shall be deemed to be an advance or loan of net capital.
[40 FR 29799, July 16, 1975]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 240.15c3-1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 240.15c3-1a
Options (Appendix A to 17 CFR 240.15c3-1).
(a)
Definitions.
(1) The term
unlisted option
shall mean any option not included in the definition of listed option provided in paragraph (c)(2)(x) of § 240.15c3-1.
(2) The term
option series
refers to listed option contracts of the same type (either a call or a put) and exercise style, covering the same underlying security with the same exercise price, expiration date, and number of underlying units.
(3) The term
related instrument
within an option class or product group refers to futures contracts, options on futures contracts, security-based swaps on a narrow-based security index, and swaps covering the same underlying instrument. In relation to options on foreign currencies, a related instrument within an option class also shall include forward contracts on the same underlying currency.
(4) The term
underlying instrument
refers to long and short positions, as appropriate, covering the same foreign currency, the same security, security future, or security-based swap other than a security-based swap on a narrow-based security index, or a security which is exchangeable for or convertible into the underlying security within a period of 90 days. If the exchange or conversion requires the payment of money or results in a loss upon conversion at the time when the security is deemed an underlying instrument for purposes of this section, the broker or dealer will deduct from net worth the full amount of the conversion loss. The term
underlying instrument
shall not be deemed to include securities options, futures contracts, options on futures contracts, security-based swaps on a narrow-based security index, qualified stock baskets, unlisted instruments, or swaps.
(5) The term
options class
refers to all options contracts covering the same underlying instrument.
(6) The term
product group
refers to two or more option classes, related instruments, underlying instruments, and qualified stock baskets in the same portfolio type (see paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section) for which it has been determined that a percentage of offsetting profits may be applied to losses at the same valuation point.
(b) The deduction under this Appendix A to § 240.15c3-1 shall equal the sum of the deductions specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(v)(C) or (b)(2) of this section.

# Theoretical Pricing Charges
(1)(i)
Definitions.
(A) The terms
theoretical gains and losses
shall mean the gain and loss in the value of individual option series, the value of underlying instruments, related instruments, and qualified stock baskets within that option's class, at 10 equidistant intervals (valuation points) ranging from an assumed movement (both up and down) in the current market value of the underlying instrument equal to the percentage corresponding to the deductions otherwise required under § 240.15c3-1 for the underlying instrument (See paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section). Theoretical gains and losses shall be calculated using a theoretical options pricing model that satisfies the criteria set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section.
(B) The term
theoretical options pricing model
shall mean any mathematical model, other than a broker-dealer proprietary model, approved by a Designated Examining Authority. Such Designated Examining Authority shall submit the model to the Commission, together with a description of its methods for approving models. Any such model shall calculate theoretical gains and losses as described in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(A) of this section for all series and issues of equity, index and foreign currency options and related instruments, and shall be made available equally and on the same terms to all registered brokers or dealers. Its procedures shall include the arrangement of the vendor to supply accurate and timely data to each broker-dealer with respect to its services, and the fees for distribution of the services. The data provided to brokers or dealers shall also contain the minimum requirements set forth in paragraphs (b)(1)(v)(C) of this section and the product group offsets set forth in paragraphs (b)(1)(v)(B) of this section. At a minimum, the model shall consider the following factors in pricing the option:
(
1
) The current spot price of the underlying asset;
(
2
) The exercise price of the option;
(
3
) The remaining time until the option's expiration;
(
4
) The volatility of the underlying asset;
(
5
) Any cash flows associated with ownership of the underlying asset that can reasonably be expected to occur during the remaining life of the option; and
(
6
) The current term structure of interest rates.
(C) The term
major market foreign currency
shall mean the currency of a sovereign nation for which there is a substantial inter-bank forward currency market.
(D) The term
qualified stock basket
shall mean a set or basket of stock positions which represents no less than 50% of the capitalization for a high-capitalization or non-high-capitalization diversified market index, or, in the case of a narrow-based index, no less than 95% of the capitalization for such narrow-based index.
(ii) With respect to positions involving listed options in a single specialist's market-maker account, and, separately, with respect to positions involving listed option positions in its proprietary or other account, the broker or dealer shall group long and short positions into the following portfolio types:
(A) Equity options on the same underlying instrument and positions in that underlying instrument;
(B) Options on the same major market foreign currency, positions in that major market foreign currency, and related instruments within those options' classes;
(C) High-capitalization diversified market index options, related instruments within the option's class, and qualified stock baskets in the same index;
(D) Non-high-capitalization diversified index options, related instruments within the index option's class, and qualified stock baskets in the same index; and
(E) Narrow-based index options, related instruments within the index option's class, and qualified stock baskets in the same index.
(iii) Before making the computation, each broker or dealer shall obtain the theoretical gains and losses for each options series and for the related and underlying instruments within those
options' class in each specialist's market-maker account guaranteed, endorsed, or carried by a broker or dealer, or in the proprietary or other accounts of that broker or dealer. For each option series, the theoretical options pricing model shall calculate theoretical prices at 10 equidistant valuation points within a range consisting of an increase or a decrease of the following percentages of the daily market price of the underlying instrument:
(A) + (−)15% for equity securities with a ready market, narrow-based indexes, and non-high-capitalization diversified indexes;
(B) + (−)6% for major market foreign currencies;
(C) + (−) 20% for all other currencies; and
(D) + (−)10% for high-capitalization diversified indexes.
(iv) As to non-clearing option specialists and market-makers, the percentages of the daily market price of the underlying instrument shall be:
(A) + (−) 4
1/2
% for major market foreign currencies; and
(B) + 6(−)8% for high-capitalization diversified indexes.
(C) + (−) 10% for a non-clearing market-maker, or specialist in non-high capitalization diversified index product group.
(v)(A) The broker or dealer shall multiply the corresponding theoretical gains and losses at each of the 10 equidistant valuation points by the number of positions held in a particular options series, the related instruments and qualified stock baskets within the option's class, and the positions in the same underlying instrument.
(B) In determining the aggregate profit or loss for each portfolio type, the broker or dealer will be allowed the following offsets in the following order, provided, that in the case of qualified stock baskets, the broker or dealer may elect to net individual stocks between qualified stock baskets and take the appropriate deduction on the remaining, if any, securities:
(
1
) First, a broker or dealer is allowed the following offsets within an option's class:
(
i
) Between options on the same underlying instrument, positions covering the same underlying instrument, and related instruments within the option's class, 100% of a position's gain shall offset another position's loss at the same valuation point;
(
ii
) Between index options, related instruments within the option's class, and qualified stock baskets on the same index, 95%, or such other amount as designated by the Commission, of gains shall offset losses at the same valuation point;
(
2
) Second, a broker-dealer is allowed the following offsets within an index product group:
(
i
) Among positions involving different high-capitalization diversified index option classes within the same product group, 90% of the gain in a high-capitalization diversified market index option, related instruments, and qualified stock baskets within that index option's class shall offset the loss at the same valuation point in a different high-capitalization diversified market index option, related instruments, and qualified stock baskets within that index option's class;
(
ii
) Among positions involving different non-high-capitalization diversified index option classes within the same product group, 75% of the gain in a non-high-capitalization diversified market index option, related instruments, and qualified stock baskets within that index option's class shall offset the loss at the same valuation point in another non-high-capitalization diversified market index option, related instruments, and qualified stock baskets within that index option's class or product group;
(
iii
) Among positions involving different narrow-based index option classes within the same product group, 90% of the gain in a narrow-based market index option, related instruments, and qualified stock baskets within that index option's class shall offset the loss at the same valuation point in another narrow-based market index option, related instruments, and qualified stock baskets within that index option's class or product group;
(
iv
) No qualified stock basket should offset another qualified stock basket; and
(
3
) Third, a broker-dealer is allowed the following offsets between product
groups: Among positions involving different diversified index product groups within the same market group, 50% of the gain in a diversified market index option, a related instrument, or a qualified stock basket within that index option's product group shall offset the loss at the same valuation point in another product group;
(C) For each portfolio type, the total deduction shall be the larger of:
(
1
) The amount for any of the 10 equidistant valuation points representing the largest theoretical loss after applying the offsets provided in paragraph (b)(1)(v)(B) if this section; or
(
2
) A minimum charge equal to 25% times the multiplier for each equity and index option contract and each related instrument within the option's class or product group, or $25 for each option on a major market foreign currency with the minimum charge for futures contracts and options on futures contracts adjusted for contract size differentials, not to exceed market value in the case of long positions in options and options on futures contracts; plus
(
3
) In the case of portfolio types involving index options and related instruments offset by a qualified stock basket, there will be a minimum charge of 5 percent of the market value of the qualified stock basket for high-capitalization diversified and narrow-based indexes;
(
4
) In the case of portfolio types involving index options and related instruments offset by a qualified stock basket, there will be a minimum charge of 7
1/2
percent of the market value of the qualified stock basket for non-high-capitalization diversified indexes; and
(
5
) In the case of portfolio types involving security futures and equity options on the same underlying instrument and positions in that underlying instrument, there will be a minimum charge of 25 percent times the multiplier for each security future and equity option.

# Alternative Strategy Based Method
(2) A broker or dealer may elect to apply the alternative strategy based method in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph (b)(2).
(i)
Definitions.
(A) The term
intrinsic value
or
in-the-money amount
shall mean the amount by which the exercise value, in the case of a call, is less than the current market value of the underlying instrument, and, in the case of a put, is greater than the current market value of the underlying instrument.
(B) The term
out-of-the-money amount
shall mean the amount by which the exercise value, in the case of a call, is greater than the current market value of the underlying instrument, and, in the case of a put, is less than the current market value of the underlying instrument.
(C) The term
time value
shall mean the current market value of an option contract that is in excess of its intrinsic value.
(ii) Every broker or dealer electing to calculate adjustments to net worth in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph (b)(2) must make the following adjustments to net worth:
(A) Add the time value of a short position in a listed option; and
(B) Deduct the time value of a long position in a listed option, which relates to a position in the same underlying instrument or in a related instrument within the option class or product group as recognized in the strategies enumerated in paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(D) of this section; and
(C) Add the net short market value or deduct the long market value of listed options as recognized in the strategies enumerated in paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(E)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section.
(iii) In computing net capital after the adjustments provided for in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, every broker or dealer shall deduct the percentages specified in this paragraph (b)(2)(iii) for all listed option positions, positions covering the same underlying instrument and related instruments within the options' class or product group.

# Uncovered Calls
(A) Where a broker or dealer is short a call, deducting the percentage required by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) (A) through (K) of § 240.15c3-1 of the current market value of the underlying instrument for such option reduced by its
out-of-the-money amount, to the extent that such reduction does not operate to increase net capital. In no event shall this deduction be less than the greater of $250 for each short call option contract for 100 shares or 50% of the aforementioned percentage.

# Uncovered Puts
(B) Where a broker or dealer is short a put, deducting the percentage required by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) (A) through (K) of § 240.15c3-1 of the current market value of the underlying instrument for such option reduced by its out-of-the-money amount, to the extent that such reduction does not operate to increase net capital. In no event shall the deduction provided by this paragraph be less than the greater of $250 for each short put option contract for 100 shares or 50% of the aforementioned percentage.

# Long Positions
(C) Where a broker or dealer is long puts or calls, deducting 50 percent of the market value of the net long put and call positions in the same options series.

# Certain Security Positions With Offsetting Options
(D)(
1
) Where a broker or dealer is long a put for which it has an offsetting long position in the same number of units of the same underlying instrument, deducting the percentage required by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) (A) through (K) of § 240.15c3-1 of the current market value of the underlying instrument for the long offsetting position, not to exceed the out-of-the-money amount of the option. In no event shall the deduction provided by this paragraph be less than $25 for each option contract for 100 shares, provided that the minimum charge need not exceed the intrinsic value of the option.
(
2
) Where a broker or dealer is long a call for which it has an offsetting short position in the same number of units of the same underlying instrument, deducting the percentage required by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) (A) through (K) of § 240.15c3-1 of the current market value of the underlying instrument for the short offsetting position, not to exceed the out-of-the-money amount of the option. In no event shall the deduction provided by this paragraph be less than $25 for each option contract for 100 shares, provided that the minimum charge need not exceed the intrinsic value of the option.
(
3
) Where a broker or dealer is short a call for which it has an offsetting long position in the same number of units of the same underlying instrument, deducting the percentage required by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) (A) through (K) of § 240.15c3-1 of the current market value of the underlying instrument for the offsetting long position reduced by the short call's intrinsic value. In no event shall the deduction provided by this paragraph be less than $25 for each option contract for 100 shares.

# Certain Spread Positions
(E)(
1
) Where a broker or dealer is short a listed call and is also long a listed call in the same class of options contracts and the long option expires on the same date as or subsequent to the short option, the deduction, after adjustments required in paragraph (b) of this section, shall be the amount by which the exercise value of the long call exceeds the exercise value of the short call. If the exercise value of the long call is less than or equal to the exercise value of the short call, no deduction is required.
(
2
) Where a broker or dealer is short a listed put and is also long a listed put in the same class of options contracts and the long option expires on the same date as or subsequent to the short option, the deduction, after the adjustments required in paragraph (b) of this section, shall be the amount by which the exercise value of the short put exceeds the exercise value of the long put. If the exercise value of the long put is equal to or greater than the exercise value of the short put, no deduction is required.
(c) With respect to transactions involving unlisted options, every broker or dealer shall determine the value of unlisted option positions in accordance with the provision of paragraph (c)(2)(i) of § 240.15c3-1, and shall deduct the percentages of all securities positions or unlisted options in the proprietary or
other accounts of the broker or dealer specified in this paragraph (c). However, where computing the deduction required for a security position as if the security position had no related unlisted option position and positions in unlisted options as if uncovered would result in a lesser deduction from net worth, the broker or dealer may compute such deductions separately.

# Uncovered Calls
(1) Where a broker or dealer is short a call, deducting 15 percent (or such other percentage required by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) (A) through (K) of § 240.15c3-1) of the current market value of the security underlying such option reduced by any excess of the exercise value of the call over the current market value of the underlying security. In no event shall the deduction provided by this paragraph be less than $250 for each option contract for 100 shares.

# Uncovered Puts
(2) Where a broker or dealer is short a put, deducting 15 percent (or such other percentage required by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) (A) through (K) of § 240.15c3-1) of the current market value of the security underlying the option reduced by any excess of the market value of the underlying security over the exercise value of the put. In no event shall the deduction provided by this paragraph be less than $250 for each option contract for 100 shares.

# Covered Calls
(3) Where a broker or dealer is short a call and long equivalent units of the underlying security, deducting 15 percent (or such other percentage required by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) (A) through (K) of § 240.15c3-1) of the current market value of the underlying security reduced by any excess of the current market value of the underlying security over the exercise value of the call. No reduction under this paragraph shall have the effect of increasing net capital.

# Covered Puts
(4) Where a broker or dealer is short a put and short equivalent units of the underlying security, deducting 15 percent (or such other percentage required by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) (A) through (K) of § 240.15c3-1) of the current market value of the underlying security reduced by any excess of the exercise value of the put over the market value of the underlying security. No such reduction shall have the effect of increasing net capital.

# Conversion Accounts
(5) Where a broker or dealer is long equivalent units of the underlying security, long a put written or endorsed by a broker or dealer and short a call in its proprietary or other accounts, deducting 5 percent (or 50 percent of such other percentage required by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) (A) through (K) of § 240.15c3-1) of the current market value of the underlying security.
(6) Where a broker or dealer is short equivalent units of the underlying security, long a call written or endorsed by a broker or dealer and short a put in his proprietary or other accounts, deducting 5 percent (or 50 percent of such other percentage required by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) (A) through (K) of § 240.15c3-1) of the market value of the underlying security.

# Long Options
(7) Where a broker or dealer is long a put or call endorsed or written by a broker or dealer, deducting 15 percent (or such other percentage required by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) (A) through (K) of § 240.15c3-1) of the market value of the underlying security, not to exceed any value attributed to such option in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of § 240.15c3-1.
[62 FR 6481, Feb. 12, 1997, as amended at 78 FR 51901, Aug. 21, 2013; 79 FR 1549, Jan. 8, 2014; 84 FR 44044, Aug. 22, 2019]
§ 240.15c3-1b
Adjustments to net worth and aggregate indebtedness for certain commodities transactions (appendix B to 17 CFR 240.15c3-1).
(a) Every broker or dealer in computing net capital pursuant to 17 CFR
240.15c3-1 shall comply with the following:
(1) Where a broker or dealer has an asset or liability which is treated or defined in paragraph (c) of 17 CFR 240.15c3-1, the inclusion or exclusion of all or part of such asset or liability for the computation of aggregate indebtedness and net capital shall be in accordance with paragraph (c) of 17 CFR 240.15c3-1, except as specifically provided otherwise in this appendix B. Where a commodity related asset or liability is specifically treated or defined in 17 CFR 1.17 and is not generally or specifically treated or defined in 17 CFR 240.15c3-1 or this appendix B, the inclusion or exclusion of all or part of such asset or liability for the computation of aggregate indebtedness and net capital shall be in accordance with 17 CFR 1.17.

# Aggregate Indebtedness
(2) The term
aggregate indebtedness
as defined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall exclude with respect to commodity-related transactions:
(i) Indebtedness arising in connection with an advance to a non-proprietary account when such indebtedness is adequately collateralized by spot commodities eligible for delivery on a contract market and when such spot commodities are covered.
(ii) Advances received by the broker or dealer against bills of lading issued in connection with the shipment of commodities sold by the broker or dealer; and
(iii) Equity balances in the accounts of general partners.

# Net Capital
(3) In computing net capital as defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the net worth of a broker or dealer shall be adjusted as follows with respect to commodity-related transactions:
(i)
Unrealized profit or loss for certain commodities transactions.
(A) Unrealized profits shall be added and unrealized losses shall be deducted in the commodities accounts of the broker or dealer, including unrealized profits and losses on fixed price commitments and forward contracts; and
(B) The value attributed to any commodity option which is not traded on a contract market shall be the difference between the option's strike price and the market value for the physical or futures contract which is the subject of the option. In the case of a long call commodity option, if the market value for the physical or futures contract which is the subject of the option is less than the strike price of the option, it shall be given no value. In the case of a long put commodity option, if the market value for the physical commodity or futures contract which is the subject of the option is more than the striking price of the option, it shall be given no value.
(ii) Deduct any unsecured commodity futures or option account containing a ledger balance and open trades, the combination of which liquidates to a deficit or containing a debit ledger balance only:
Provided, however,
Deficits or debit ledger balances in unsecured customers', non-customers' and proprietary accounts, which are the subject of calls for margin or other required deposits need not be deducted until the close of business on the business day following the date on which such deficit or debit ledger balance originated;
(iii) Deduct all unsecured receivables, advances and loans except for:
(A) Management fees receivable from commodity pools outstanding no longer than thirty (30) days from the date they are due;
(B) Receivables from foreign clearing organizations;
(C) Receivables from registered futures commission merchants or brokers, resulting from cleared swap transactions or, commodity futures or option transactions, except those specifically excluded under paragraph (3)(ii) of this appendix B. In the case of an introducing broker or an applicant for registration as an introducing broker, include 50 percent of the value of a guarantee or security deposit with a futures commission merchant which carries or intends to carry accounts for the customers of the introducing broker.
(iv) Deduct all inventories (including work in process, finished goods, raw materials and inventories held for resale) except for readily marketable
spot commodities; or spot commodities which adequately collateralize indebtedness under paragraph (c)(7) of 17 CFR 1.17;
(v) Guarantee deposits with commodities clearing organizations are not required to be deducted from net worth;
(vi) Stock in commodities clearing organizations to the extent of its margin value is not required to be deducted from net worth;
(vii) Deduct from net worth the amount by which any advances paid by the broker or dealer on cash commodity contracts and used in computing net capital exceeds 95 percent of the market value of the commodities covered by such contracts.
(viii) Do not include equity in the commodity accounts of partners in net worth.
(ix) In the case of all inventory, fixed price commitments and forward contracts, except for inventory and forward contracts in the inter-bank market in those foreign currencies which are purchased or sold for further delivery on or subject to the rules of a contract market and covered by an open futures contract for which there will be no charge, deduct the applicable percentage of the net position specified below:
(A) Inventory which is currently registered as deliverable on a contract market and covered by an open futures contract or by a commodity option on a physical—No charge.
(B) Inventory which is covered by an open futures contract or commodity option—5% of the market value.
(C) Inventory which is not covered—20% of the market value.
(D) Fixed price commitments (open purchases and sales) and forward contracts which are covered by an open futures contract or commodity option—10% of the market value.
(E) Fixed price commitments (open purchases and sales) and forward contracts which are not covered by an open futures contract or commodity option—20% of the market value.
(x) Deduct 4% of the market value of commodity options granted (sold) by option customers on or subject to the rules of a contract market.
(xi) [Reserved]
(xii) Deduct for undermargined customer commodity futures accounts the amount of funds required in each such account to meet maintenance margin requirements of the applicable board of trade or, if there are no such maintenance margin requirements, clearing organization margin requirements applicable to such positions, after application of calls for margin, or other required deposits which are outstanding three business days or less. If there are no such maintenance margin requirements or clearing organization margin requirements on such accounts, then deduct the amount of funds required to provide margin equal to the amount necessary after application of calls for margin, or other required deposits outstanding three days or less to restore original margin when the original margin has been depleted by 50 percent or more.
Provided,
To the extent a deficit is deducted from net worth in accordance with paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this appendix B, such amount shall not also be deducted under this paragraph (a)(3)(xii). In the event that an owner of a customer account has deposited an asset other than cash to margin, guarantee or secure his account, the value attributable to such asset for purposes of this paragraph shall be the lesser of (A) the value attributable to such asset pursuant to the margin rules of the applicable board of trade, or (B) the market value of such asset after application of the percentage deductions specified in paragraph (a)(3)(ix) of this appendix B or, where appropriate, specified in paragraph (c)(2)(vi) or (c)(2)(vii) of § 240.15c3-1 this chapter;
(xiii) Deduct for undermargined non-customer and omnibus commodity futures accounts the amount of funds required in each such account to meet maintenance margin requirements of the applicable board of trade or, if there are no such maintenance margin requirements, clearing organization margin requirements applicable to such positions, after application of calls for margin, or other required deposits which are outstanding two business days or less. If there are no such maintenance margin requirements or clearing organization margin requirements, then deduct the amount of funds required to provide margin equal
to the amount necessary after application of calls for margin, or other required deposits outstanding two days or less to restore original margin when the original margin has been depleted by 50 percent or more.
Provided,
To the extent a deficit is deducted from net worth in accordance with paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this appendix B such amount shall not also be deducted under this paragraph (a)(3)(xiii). In the event that an owner of a non-customer or omnibus account has deposited an asset other than cash to margin, guarantee or secure his account, the value attributable to such asset for purposes of this paragraph shall be the lesser of (A) the value attributable to such asset pursuant to the margin rules of the applicable board of trade, or (B) the market value of such asset after application of the percentage deductions specified in paragraph (a)(3)(ix) of this appendix B or, where appropriate, specified in paragraph (c)(2)(vi) or (c)(2)(vii) of § 240.15c3-1 of this chapter;
(xiv) In the case of open futures contracts and granted (sold) commodity options held in proprietary accounts carried by the broker or dealer which are not covered by a position held by the broker or dealer or which are not the result of a “changer trade” made in accordance with the rules of a contract market, deduct:
(A) For a broker or dealer which is a clearing member of a contract market for the positions on such contract market cleared by such member, the applicable margin requirement of the applicable clearing organization;
(B) For a broker or dealer which is a member of a self-regulatory organization 150% of the applicable maintenance margin requirement of the applicable board of trade or clearing organization, whichever is greater; or
(C) For all other brokers or dealers, 200% of the applicable maintenance margin requirement of the applicable board of trade or clearing organization, whichever is greater; or
(D) For open contracts or granted (sold) commodity options for which there are no applicable maintenance margin requirements, 200% of the applicable initial margin requirement;
Provided,
the equity in any such proprietary account shall reduce the deduction required by this paragraph (a)(3)(xiv) if such equity is not otherwise includable in net capital.
(xv) In the case of a broker or dealer which is a purchaser of a commodity option which is traded on a contract market the deduction shall be the same safety factor as if the broker or dealer were the grantor of such option in accordance with paragraph (a)(3)(xiv), but in no event shall the safety factor be greater than the market value attributed to such option.
(xvi) In the case of a broker or dealer which is a purchaser of a commodity option not traded on a contract market which has value and such value is used to increase net capital, the deduction is ten percent of the market value of the physical or futures contract which is the subject of such option but in no event more than the value attributed to such option.
(xvii) Deduction 5% of all unsecured receivables includable under paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(C) of this appendix B used by the broker or dealer in computing “net capital” and which are not receivable from (A) a futures commission merchant registered as such with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or (B) a broker or dealer which is registered as such with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(xviii) A loan or advance or any other form of receivable shall not be considered “secured” for the purposes of paragraph (a)(3) of this appendix B unless the following conditions exist:
(A) The receivable is secured by readily marketable collateral which is otherwise unencumbered and which can be readily converted into cash:
Provided, however,
That the receivable will be considered secured only to the extent of the market value of such collateral after application of the percentage deductions specified in paragraph (a)(3)(ix) of this appendix B; and
(B)(
1
) The readily marketable collateral is in the possession or control of the broker or dealer; or
(
2
) The broker or dealer has a legally enforceable, written security agreement, signed by the debtor, and has a perfected security interest in the readily marketable collateral within the meaning of the laws of the State in
which the readily marketable collateral is located.
(xix) The term
cover
for purposes of this appendix B shall mean cover as defined in 17 CFR 1.17(j).
(xx) The term
customer
for purposes of this Appendix B shall mean customer as defined in 17 CFR 1.17(b)(2). The term “non-customer” for purposes of this appendix B shall mean non-customer as defined in 17 CFR 1.17(b)(4).
(b) Every broker or dealer in computing net capital pursuant to § 240.15c3-1 must comply with the following:
(1)
Cleared swaps.
In the case of a cleared swap held in a proprietary account of the broker or dealer, deducting the amount of the applicable margin requirement of the derivatives clearing organization or, if the swap references an equity security index, the broker or dealer may take a deduction using the method specified in § 240.15c3-1a.
(2)
Non-cleared swaps
—(i)
Credit default swaps referencing broad-based security indices.
In the case of a non-cleared credit default swap for which the deductions in § 240.15c3-1e do not apply:
(A)
Short positions (selling protection).
In the case of a non-cleared swap that is a short credit default swap referencing a broad-based security index, deducting the percentage of the notional amount based upon the current basis point spread of the credit default swap and the maturity of the credit default swap in accordance table 1 to § 240.15c3-1a(b)(2)(i)(A):
Table 1 to § 240.15
c3-1a(b)(2)(i
)(A)
Length of time to maturity of credit default swap contract
Basis point spread
100 or less
(%)
101-300
(%)
301-400
(%)
401-500
(%)
501-699
(%)
700 or more
(%)
Less than 12 months
0.67
1.33
3.33
5.00
6.67
10.00
12 months but less than 24 months
1.00
2.33
5.00
6.67
8.33
11.67
24 months but less than 36 months
1.33
3.33
6.67
8.33
10.00
13.33
36 months but less than 48 months
2.00
4.00
8.33
10.00
11.67
15.00
48 months but less than 60 months
2.67
4.67
10.00
11.67
13.33
16.67
60 months but less than 72 months
3.67
5.67
11.67
13.33
15.00
18.33
72 months but less than 84 months
4.67
6.67
13.33
15.00
16.67
20.00
84 months but less than 120 months
5.67
10.00
15.00
16.67
18.33
26.67
120 months and longer
6.67
13.33
16.67
18.33
20.00
33.33
(B)
Long positions (purchasing protection).
In the case of a non-cleared swap that is a long credit default swap referencing a broad-based security index, deducting 50 percent of the deduction that would be required by paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section if the non-cleared swap was a short credit default swap, each such deduction not to exceed the current market value of the long position.
(C)
Long and short credit default swaps.
In the case of non-cleared swaps that are long and short credit default swaps referencing the same broad-based security index, have the same credit events which would trigger payment by the seller of protection, have the same basket of obligations which would determine the amount of payment by the seller of protection upon the occurrence of a credit event, that are in the same or adjacent spread category, and that are in the same or adjacent maturity category and have a maturity date within three months of the other maturity category, deducting the percentage of the notional amount specified in the higher maturity category under paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) or (B) of this section on the excess of the long or short position.
(D)
Long basket of obligors and long credit default swap.
In the case of a non-cleared swap that is a long credit default swap referencing a broad-based security index and the broker or dealer is long a basket of debt securities comprising all of the components of the security index, deducting 50 percent of the amount specified in § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi) for the component securities, provided the broker or dealer can deliver the component securities to satisfy the obligation of the broker or dealer on the credit default swap.
(E)
Short basket of obligors and short credit default swap.
In the case of a non-
cleared swap that is a short credit default swap referencing a broad-based security index and the broker or dealer is short a basket of debt securities comprising all of the components of the security index, deducting the amount specified in § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi) for the component securities.
(ii)
All other swaps.
(A) In the case of a non-cleared swap that is not a credit default swap for which the deductions in § 240.15c3-1e do not apply, deducting the amount calculated by multiplying the notional value of the swap by the percentage specified in:
(
1
) Section 240.15c3-1 applicable to the reference asset if § 240.15c3-1 specifies a percentage deduction for the type of asset;
(
2
) 17 CFR 1.17 applicable to the reference asset if 17 CFR 1.17 specifies a percentage deduction for the type of asset and § 240.15c3-1 does not specify a percentage deduction for the type of asset; or
(
3
) In the case of non-cleared interest rate swap, § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(A) based on the maturity of the swap, provided that the percentage deduction must be no less than one eighth of 1 percent of the amount of a long position that is netted against a short position in the case of a non-cleared swap with a maturity of three months or more.
(B) A broker or dealer may reduce the deduction under paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) by an amount equal to any reduction recognized for a comparable long or short position in the reference asset or interest rate under § 240.15c3-1 or 17 CFR 1.17.
(Secs. 15(c)(3), 17(a) and 23(a), 15 U.S.C. 78o(c)(3), 78q(a), and 78w(a))
[44 FR 34886, June 15, 1979, as amended at 46 FR 37041, July 17, 1981; 49 FR 31848, Aug. 9, 1984; 84 FR 44044, Aug. 22, 2019]
§ 240.15c3-1c
Consolidated computations of net capital and aggregate indebtedness for certain subsidiaries and affiliates (appendix C to 17 CFR 240.15c3-1).
(a)
Flow through capital benefits.
Every broker or dealer in computing its net capital and aggregate indebtedness pursuant to 17 CFR 240.15c3-1 shall, subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (d) of this appendix, consolidate in a single computation assets and liabilities of any subsidiary or affiliate for which it guarantees, endorses or assumes directly or indirectly the obligations or liabilities. The assets and liabilities of a subsidiary or affiliate whose liabilities and obligations have not been guaranteed, endorsed, or assumed directly or indirectly by the broker or dealer may also be so consolidated if an opinion of counsel is obtained as provided for in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Required counsel opinions.
(1) If the consolidation, provided for in paragraph (a) of this section, of any such subsidiary or affiliate results in the increase of the broker's or dealer's net capital and/or the decrease of the broker's or dealer's minimum net capital requirement under paragraph (a) of § 240.15c3-1 and an opinion of counsel described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section has not been obtained, such benefits shall not be recognized in the broker's or dealer's computation required by this section.
(2) Except as provided for in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, consolidation shall be permitted with respect to any subsidiaries or affiliates which are majority owned and controlled by the broker or dealer for which the broker or dealer can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Commission, through the Examining Authority, by an opinion of counsel that the net asset values, or the portion thereof related to the parent's ownership interest in the subsidiary or affiliate may be caused by the broker or dealer or a trustee appointed pursuant to the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 or otherwise, to be distributed to the broker or dealer within 30 calendar days. Such opinion shall also set forth the actions necessary to cause such a distribution to be made, identify the parties having the authority to take such actions, identify and describe the rights of other parties or classes of parties, including but not limited to customers, general creditors, subordinated lenders, minority shareholders, employees, litigants and governmental or regulatory authorities, who may delay or prevent such a distribution and such other assurances as the Commission or the Examining Authority by rule or interpretation may require. Such opinion shall
be current and periodically renewed in connection with the broker's or dealer's annual audit pursuant to 17 CFR 240.17a-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or upon any material change in circumstances.
(c)
Principles of consolidation.
In preparing a consolidated computation of net capital and/or aggregate indebtedness pursuant to this section, the following minimum and non-exclusive requirements shall be observed:
(1) Consolidated net worth shall be reduced by the estimated amount of any tax reasonably anticipated to be incurred upon distribution of the assets of the subsidiary or affiliate.
(2) Liabilities of a consolidated subsidiary or affiliate which are subordinated to the claims of present and future creditors pursuant to a satisfactory subordination agreement shall not be added to consolidated net worth unless such subordination extends also to the claims of present or future creditors of the parent broker or dealer and all consolidated subsidiaries.
(3) Subordinated liabilities of a consolidated subsidiary or affiliate which are consolidated in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section may not be prepaid, repaid or accelerated if any of the entities included in such consolidation would otherwise be unable to comply with the provisions of Appendix (D), 17 CFR 240.15c3-1d.
(4) Each broker or dealer included within the consolidation shall at all times be in compliance with the net capital requirement to which it is subject.
(d)
Certain precluded acts.
No broker or dealer shall guarantee, endorse or assume directly or indirectly any obligation or liability of a subsidiary or affiliate unless the obligation or liability is reflected in the computation of net capital and/or aggregate indebtedness pursuant to 17 CFR 240.15c3-1 or this appendix (C), except as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
[40 FR 29808, July 16, 1975, as amended at 57 FR 56988, Dec. 2, 1992]
§ 240.15c3-1d
Satisfactory Subordination Agreements (Appendix D to 17 CFR 240.15c3-1).
(a)
Introduction.
(1) This appendix sets forth minimum and non-exclusive requirements for satisfactory subordination agreements (hereinafter “subordination agreement”). The Examining Authority may require or the broker or dealer may include such other provisions as deemed necessary or appropriate to the extent such provisions do not cause the subordination agreement to fail to meet the minimum requirements of this Appendix (D).
(2)
Certain definitions.
For purposes of 17 CFR 240.15c3-1 and this Appendix (D):
(i) A subordination agreement may be either a subordinated loan agreement or a secured demand note agreement.
(ii) The term
subordinated loan agreement
shall mean the agreement or agreements evidencing or governing a subordinated borrowing of cash.
(iii) The term
collateral value
of any securities pledged to secure a secured demand note shall mean the market value of such securities after giving effect to the percentage deductions set forth in paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of § 240.15c3-1 except for paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(J). In lieu of the deduction under (c)(2)(vi)(J), the broker or dealer shall reduce the market value of the securities pledged to secure the secured demand note by 30 percent.
(iv) The term
payment obligation
shall mean the obligation of a broker or dealer in respect to any subordination agreement (A) to repay cash loaned to the broker or dealer pursuant to a subordinated loan agreement or (B) to return a secured demand note contributed to the broker or dealer or reduce the unpaid principal amount thereof and to return cash or securities pledged as collateral to secure the secured demand note and (C) “Payment” shall mean the performance by a broker or dealer of a Payment Obligation.
(v)(A) The term
secured demand note agreement
shall mean an agreement (including the related secured demand note) evidencing or governing the contribution of a secured demand note to a broker or dealer and the pledge of securities and/or cash with the broker or dealer as collateral to secure payment of such secured demand note. The secured demand note agreement may provide that neither the lender, his heirs,
executors, administrators or assigns shall be personally liable on such note and that in the event of default the broker or dealer shall look for payment of such note solely to the collateral then pledged to secure the same.
(B) The secured demand note shall be a promissory note executed by the lender and shall be payable on the demand of the broker or dealer to which it is contributed; provided, however, that the making of such demand may be conditioned upon the occurrence of any of certain events which are acceptable to the Commission and to the Examining Authority for such broker or dealer.
(C) If such note is not paid upon presentment and demand as provided for therein, the broker or dealer shall have the right to liquidate all or any part of the securities then pledged as collateral to secure payment of the same and to apply the net proceeds of such liquidation, together with any cash then included in the collateral, in payment of such note. Subject to the prior rights of the broker or dealer as pledgee, the lender, as defined herein, may retain ownership of the collateral and have the benefit of any increases and bear the risks of any decreases in the value of the collateral and may retain the right to vote securities contained within the collateral and any right to income therefrom or distributions thereon, except the broker or dealer shall have the right to receive and hold as pledgee all dividends payable in securities and all partial and complete liquidating dividends.
(D) Subject to the prior rights of the broker or dealer as pledgee, the lender may have the right to direct the sale of any securities included in the collateral, to direct the purchases of securities with any cash included therein, to withdraw excess collateral or to substitute cash or other securities as collateral, provided that the net proceeds of any such sale and the cash so substituted and the securities so purchased or substituted are held by the broker or dealer, as pledgee, and are included within the collateral to secure payment of the secured demand note, and provided further that no such transaction shall be permitted if, after giving effect thereto, the sum of the amount of any cash, plus the Collateral Value of the securities, then pledged as collateral to secure the secured demand note would be less than the unpaid principal amount of the secured demand note.
(E) Upon payment by the lender, as distinguished from a reduction by the lender which is provided for in (b)(6)(iii) or reduction by the broker or dealer as provided for in subparagraph (b)(7) of this appendix (D), of all or any part of the unpaid principal amount of the secured demand note, a broker or dealer shall issue to the lender a subordinated loan agreement in the amount of such payment (or in the case of a broker or dealer that is a partnership credit a capital account of the lender) or issue preferred or common stock of the broker or dealer in the amount of such payment, or any combination of the foregoing, as provided for in the secured demand note agreement.
(F) The term
lender
shall mean the person who lends cash to a broker or dealer pursuant to a subordinated loan agreement and the person who contributes a secured demand note to a broker or dealer pursuant to a secured demand note agreement.
(b)
Minimum requirements for subordination agreements.
(1) Subject to paragraph (a) of this section, a subordination agreement shall mean a written agreement between the broker or dealer and the lender, which (i) has a minimum term of one year, except for temporary subordination agreements provided for in paragraph (c)(5) of this appendix (D), and (ii) is a valid and binding obligation enforceable in accordance with its terms (subject as to enforcement to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws) against the broker or dealer and the lender and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
(2)
Specific amount.
All subordination agreements shall be for a specific dollar amount which shall not be reduced for the duration of the agreement except by installments as specifically provided for therein and except as otherwise provided in this appendix (D).
(3)
Effective subordination.
The subordination agreement shall effectively subordinate any right of the lender to
receive any Payment with respect thereto, together with accrued interest or compensation, to the prior payment or provision for payment in full of all claims of all present and future creditors of the broker or dealer arising out of any matter occurring prior to the date on which the related Payment Obligation matures consistent with the provisions of 17 CFR 240.15c3-1 and 240.15c3-1d, except for claims which are the subject of subordination agreements which rank on the same priority as or junior to the claim of the lender under such subordination agreements.
(4)
Proceeds of subordinated loan agreements.
The subordinated loan agreement shall provide that the cash proceeds thereof shall be used and dealt with by the broker or dealer as part of its capital and shall be subject to the risks of the business.
(5)
Certain rights of the broker or dealer.
The subordination agreement shall provide that the broker or dealer shall have the right to:
(i) Deposit any cash proceeds of a subordinated loan agreement and any cash pledged as collateral to secure a secured demand note in an account or accounts in its own name in any bank or trust company;
(ii) Pledge, repledge, hypothecate and rehypothecate, any or all of the securities pledged as collateral to secure a secured demand note, without notice, separately or in common with other securities or property for the purpose of securing any indebtedness of the broker or dealer; and
(iii) Lend to itself or others any or all of the securities and cash pledged as collateral to secure a secured demand note.
(6)
Collateral for secured demand notes.
Only cash and securities which are fully paid for and which may be publicly offered or sold without registration under the Securities Act of 1933, and the offer, sale and transfer of which are not otherwise restricted, may be pledged as collateral to secure a secured demand note. The secured demand note agreement shall provide that if at any time the sum of the amount of any cash, plus the Collateral Value of any securities, then pledged as collateral to secure the secured demand note is less than the unpaid principal amount of the secured demand note, the broker or dealer must immediately transmit written notice to that effect to the lender and the Examining Authority for such broker or dealer. The secured demand note agreement shall also require that following such transmittal:
(i) The lender, prior to noon of the business day next succeeding the transmittal of such notice, may pledge as collateral additional cash or securities sufficient, after giving effect to such pledge, to bring the sum of the amount of any cash plus the Collateral Value of any securities, then pledged as collateral to secure the secured demand note, up to an amount not less than the unpaid principal amount of the secured demand note; and
(ii) Unless additional cash or securities are pledged by the lender as provided in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section, the broker or dealer at noon on the business day next succeeding the transmittal of notice to the lender must commence sale, for the account of the lender, of such of the securities then pledged as collateral to secure the secured demand note and apply so much of the net proceeds thereof, together with such of the cash then pledged as collateral to secure the secured demand note as may be necessary to eliminate the unpaid principal amount of the secured demand note;
Provided, however,
That the unpaid principal amount of the secured demand note need not be reduced below the sum of the amount of any remaining cash, plus the Collateral Value of the remaining securities, then pledged as collateral to secure the secured demand note. The broker or dealer may not purchase for its own account any securities subject to such a sale.
(iii) The secured demand note agreement also may provide that, in lieu of the procedures specified in the provisions required by paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section, the lender with the prior written consent of the broker or dealer and the Examining Authority for the broker or dealer may reduce the unpaid principal amount of the secured demand note. After giving effect to such reduction, the aggregate indebtedness of the broker or dealer may not exceed 1000 percent of its net capital or, in the
case of a broker or dealer operating pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of § 240.15c3-1, net capital may not be less than 5 percent of aggregate debit items computed in accordance with § 240.15c3-3a, or, if registered as a futures commission merchant, 7 percent of the funds required to be segregated pursuant to the Commodity Exchange Act and the regulations thereunder (less the market value of commodity options purchased by option customers subject to the rules of a contract market, each such deduction not to exceed the amount of funds in the option customer's account), if greater. No single secured demand note shall be permitted to be reduced by more than 15 percent of its original principal amount and after such reduction no excess collateral may be withdrawn. No Examining Authority shall consent to a reduction of the principal amount of a secured demand note if, after giving effect to such reduction, net capital would be less than 120 percent of the minimum dollar amount required by § 240.15c3-1.

# Permissive Prepayments
(7) A broker or dealer at its option but not at the option of the lender may, if the subordination agreement so provides, make a Payment of all or any portion of the Payment Obligation thereunder prior to the scheduled maturity date of such Payment Obligation (hereinafter referred to as a “Prepayment”), but in no event may any Prepayment be made before the expiration of one year from the date such subordination agreement became effective. This restriction shall not apply to temporary subordination agreements that comply with the provisions of paragraph (c)(5) of this section. No Prepayment shall be made, if, after giving effect thereto (and to all Payments of Payment Obligations under any other subordinated agreements then outstanding the maturity or accelerated maturities of which are scheduled to fall due within six months after the date such Prepayment is to occur pursuant to this provision or on or prior to the date on which the Payment Obligation in respect of such Prepayment is scheduled to mature disregarding this provision, whichever date is earlier) without reference to any projected profit or loss of the broker or dealer, either aggregate indebtedness of the broker or dealer would exceed 1000 percent of its net capital or its net capital would be less than 120 percent of the minimum dollar amount required by § 240.15c3-1 or, in the case of a broker or dealer operating pursuant to § 240.15c3-1(a)(1)(ii), its net capital would be less than 5 percent of its aggregate debit items computed in accordance with § 240.15c3-3a, or if registered as a futures commission merchant, 7 percent of the funds required to be segregated pursuant to the Commodity Exchange Act and the regulations thereunder (less the market value of commodity options purchased by option customers subject to the rules of a contract market, each such deduction not to exceed the amount of funds in the option customer's account), if greater, or its net capital would be less than 120 percent of the minimum dollar amount required by § 240.15c3-1(a)(1)(ii), or if, in the case of a broker or dealer operating pursuant to § 240.15c3-1(a)(10), its net capital would be less than 120 percent of its minimum requirement.

# Suspended Repayment
(8)(i) The Payment Obligation of the broker or dealer in respect of any subordination agreement shall be suspended and shall not mature if, after giving effect to Payment of such Payment Obligation (and to all Payments of Payment Obligations of such broker or dealer under any other subordination agreement(s) then outstanding that are scheduled to mature on or before such Payment Obligation) either:
(A) The aggregate indebtedness of the broker or dealer would exceed 1200 percent of its net capital, or in the case of a broker or dealer operating pursuant to § 240.15c3-1(a)(1)(ii), its net capital would be less than 5 percent of aggregate debit items computed in accordance with § 240.15c3-3a or, if registered as a futures commission merchant, 6 percent of the funds required to be segregated pursuant to the Commodity Exchange Act and the regulations thereunder (less the market value of commodity options purchased by option customers on or subject to the rules of a contract market, each such
deduction not to exceed the amount of funds in the option customer's account), if greater, or, in the case of a broker or dealer operating pursuant to § 240.15c3-1(a)(10), its net capital would be less than 120 percent of its minimum requirement; or
(B) Its net capital would be less than 120 percent of the minimum dollar amount required by § 240.15c3-1 including paragraph (a)(1)(ii), if applicable. The subordination agreement may provide that if the Payment Obligation of the broker or dealer thereunder does not mature and is suspended as a result of the requirement of this paragraph (b)(8) for a period of not less than six months, the broker or dealer shall thereupon commence the rapid and orderly liquidation of its business, but the right of the lender to receive Payment, together with accrued interest or compensation, shall remain subordinate as required by the provisions of §§ 240.15c3-1 and 240.15c3-1d.
(ii) [Reserved]
(9)
Accelerated maturity-obligation to repay to remain subordinate.
(i) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b)(8) of this appendix, a subordination agreement may provide that the lender may, upon prior written notice to the broker or dealer and the Examining Authority given not earlier than six months after the effective date of such subordination agreement, accelerate the date on which the Payment Obligation of the broker or dealer, together with accrued interest or compensation, is scheduled to mature to a date not earlier than six months after the giving of such notice, but the right of the lender to receive Payment, together with accrued interest or compensation, shall remain subordinate as required by the provisions of 17 CFR 240.15c3-1 and 240.15c3-1d.
(ii) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b)(8) of this appendix, the Payment Obligation of the broker or dealer with respect to a subordination agreement, together with accrued interest and compensation, shall mature in the event of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation pursuant to the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 or otherwise, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, reorganization whether or not pursuant to the bankruptcy laws, or any other marshalling of the assets and liabilities of the broker or dealer but the right of the lender to receive Payment, together with accrued interest or compensation, shall remain subordinate as required by the provisions of 17 CFR 240.15c3-1 and 240.15c3-1d.
(10)(i)
Accelerated maturity of subordination agreements on event of default and event of acceleration—obligation to repay to remain subordinate.
A subordination agreement may provide that the lender may, upon prior written notice to the broker or dealer and the Examining Authority of the broker or dealer of the occurrence of any Event of Acceleration (as hereinafter defined) given no sooner than six months after the effective date of such subordination agreement, accelerate the date on which the Payment Obligation of the broker or dealer, together with accrued interest or compensation, is scheduled to mature, to the last business day of a calendar month which is not less than six months after notice of acceleration is received by the broker or dealer and the Examining Authority for the broker or dealer. Any subordination agreement containing such Events of Acceleration may also provide, that if upon such accelerated maturity date the Payment Obligation of the broker or dealer is suspended as required by paragraph (b)(8) of this appendix (D) and liquidation of the broker or dealer has not commenced on or prior to such accelerated maturity date, then notwithstanding paragraph (b)(8) of this appendix the Payment Obligation of the broker or dealer with respect to such subordination agreement shall mature on the day immediately following such accelerated maturity date and in any such event the Payment Obligations of the broker or dealer with respect to all other subordination agreements then outstanding shall also mature at the same time but the rights of the respective lenders to receive Payment, together with accrued interest or compensation, shall remain subordinate as required by the provisions of this Appendix (D). Events of Acceleration which may be included in a subordination agreement complying with this paragraph (b)(10) shall be limited to:
(A) Failure to pay interest or any installment of principal on a subordination agreement as scheduled;
(B) Failure to pay when due other money obligations of a specified material amount;
(C) Discovery that any material, specified representation or warranty of the broker or dealer which is included in the subordination agreement and on which the subordination agreement was based or continued was inaccurate in a material respect at the time made;
(D) Any specified and clearly measurable event which is included in the subordination agreement and which the lender and the broker or dealer agree (
1
) is a significant indication that the financial position of the broker or dealer has changed materially and adversely from agreed upon specified norms or (
2
) could materially and adversely affect the ability of the broker or dealer to conduct its business as conducted on the date the subordination agreement was made; or (
3
) is a significant change in the senior management of the broker or dealer or in the general business conducted by the broker or dealer from that which obtained on the date the subordination agreement became effective;
(E) Any continued failure to perform agreed covenants included in the subordination agreement relating to the conduct of the business of the broker or dealer or relating to the maintenance and reporting of its financial position; and
(ii) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b)(8) of this appendix, a subordination agreement may provide that, if liquidation of the business of the broker or dealer has not already commenced, the Payment Obligation of the broker or dealer shall mature, together with accrued interest or compensation, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default (as hereinafter defined). Such agreement may also provide that, if liquidation of the business of the broker or dealer has not already commenced, the rapid and orderly liquidation of the business of the broker or dealer shall then commence upon the happening of an Event of Default. Any subordination agreement which so provides for maturity of the Payment Obligation upon the occurrence of an Event of Default shall also provide that the date on which such Event of Default occurs shall, if liquidation of the broker or dealer has not already commenced, be the date on which the Payment Obligations of the broker or dealer with respect to all other subordination agreements then outstanding shall mature but the rights of the respective lenders to receive Payment, together with accrued interest or compensation, shall remain subordinate as required by the provisions of this Appendix (D). Events of Default which may be included in a subordination agreement shall be limited to:
(A) The making of an application by the Securities Investor Protection Corporation for a decree adjudicating that customers of the broker or dealer are in need of protection under the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 and the failure of the broker or dealer to obtain the dismissal of such application within 30 days;
(B) The aggregate indebtedness of the broker or dealer exceeding 1500 percent of its net capital or, in the case of a broker or dealer that has elected to operate under § 240.15c3-1(a)(1)(ii), its net capital computed in accordance therewith is less than two percent of its aggregate debit items computed in accordance with § 240.15c3-3a or, if registered as a futures commission merchant, four percent of the funds required to be segregated pursuant to the Commodity Exchange Act and the regulations thereunder (less the market value of commodity options purchased by option customers on or subject to the rules of a contract market, each such deduction not to exceed the amount of funds in the option customer's account), if greater, or, in the case of a broker or dealer operating pursuant to § 240.15c3-1(a)(10), its net capital is less than its minimum requirement, throughout a period of 15 consecutive business days, commencing on the day the broker or dealer first determines and notifies the Examining Authority for the broker or dealer, or the Examining Authority or the Commission first determines and notifies the broker or dealer of such fact;
(C) The Commission shall revoke the registration of the broker or dealer;
(D) The Examining Authority shall suspend (and not reinstate within 10 days) or revoke the broker's or dealer's status as a member thereof;
(E) Any receivership, insolvency, liquidation pursuant to the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 or otherwise, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, reorganization whether or not pursuant to bankruptcy laws, or any other marshalling of the assets and liabilities of the broker or dealer.
A subordination agreement which contains any of the provisions permitted by this paragraph (b)(10) shall not contain the provision otherwise permitted by clause (i) of paragraph (b)(9).

# Brokers and Dealers Carrying the Accounts of Specialists and Market Makers in Listed Options
(11) A subordination agreement which becomes effective on or after August 1, 1977 in favor of a broker or dealer who guarantees, endorses, carries or clears specialist or market maker transactions in options listed on a national securities exchange or facility of a national securities association shall provide that reduction, prepayment or repayment of the unpaid principal amount thereof, pursuant to those terms of the agreement required or permitted by paragraphs (b)(6)(iii), (b)(7), or (b)(8)(i) of this section, shall not occur in contravention of paragraphs (a)(6)(v), (a)(7)(iv), or (c)(2)(x)(B)(
1
) of § 240.15c3-1 insofar as they apply to such broker or dealer.
(c)
Miscellaneous Provisions
—(1)
Prohibited Cancellation.
The subordination agreement shall not be subject to cancellation by either party; no Payment shall be made with respect thereto and the agreement shall not be terminated, rescinded or modified by mutual consent or otherwise if the effect thereof would be inconsistent with the requirements of 17 CFR 240.15c3-1 and 240.15c3-1d.
(2) Every broker or dealer shall immediately notify the Examining Authority for such broker or dealer if, after giving effect to all Payments of Payment Obligations under subordination agreements then outstanding that are then due or mature within the following six months without reference to any projected profit or loss of the broker or dealer either the aggregate indebtedness of the broker or dealer would exceed 1200 percent of its net capital or its net capital would be less than 120 percent of the minimum dollar amount required by § 240.15c3-1, or, in the case of a broker or dealer operating pursuant to § 240.15c3-1(a)(1)(ii), its net capital would be less than 5 percent of aggregate debit items computed in accordance with § 240.15c3-3a, or, if registered as a futures commission merchant, 6 percent of the funds required to be segregated pursuant to the Commodity Exchange Act and the regulations thereunder (less the market value of commodity options purchased by option customers on or subject to the rules of a contract market, each such deduction not to exceed the amount of funds in the option customer's account), if greater, or less than 120 percent of the minimum dollar amount required by § 240.15c3-1(a)(1)(ii), or, in the case of a broker or dealer operating pursuant to § 240.15c3-1(a)(10), its net capital would be less than 120 percent of its minimum requirement.
(3)
Certain legends.
If all the provisions of a satisfactory subordination agreement do not appear in a single instrument, then the debenture or other evidence of indebtedness shall bear on its face an appropriate legend stating that it is issued subject to the provisions of a satisfactory subordination agreement which shall be adequately referred to and incorporated by reference.
(4)
Legal title to securities.
All securities pledged as collateral to secure a secured demand note must be in bearer form, or registered in the name of the broker or dealer or the name of its nominee or custodian.

# Temporary and Revolving Subordination Agreements
(5)(i) For the purpose of enabling a broker or dealer to participate as an underwriter of securities or other extraordinary activities in compliance with the net capital requirements of § 240.15c3-1, a broker or dealer shall be permitted, on no more than three occasions in any 12 month period, to enter into a subordination agreement on a temporary basis that has a stated term
of no more than 45 days from the date such subordination agreement became effective. This temporary relief shall not apply to a broker or dealer if, within the preceding thirty calendar days, it has given notice pursuant to § 240.17a-11, or if immediately prior to entering into such subordination agreement, either:
(A) The aggregate indebtedness of the broker or dealer exceeds 1000 percent of its net capital or its net capital is less than 120 percent of the minimum dollar amount required by § 240.15c3-1, or
(B) In the case of a broker or dealer operating pursuant to § 240.15c3-1(a)(1)(ii), its net capital is less than 5 percent of aggregate debits computed in accordance with § 240.15c3-1, or, if registered as a futures commission merchant, less than 7 percent of the funds required to be segregated pursuant to the Commodity Exchange Act and the regulations thereunder (less the market value of commodity options purchased by option customers on or subject to the rules of a contract market, each such deduction not to exceed the amount of funds in the option customer's account), if greater, or less than 120 percent of the minimum dollar amount required by paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, or, in the case of a broker or dealer operating pursuant to § 240.15c3-1(a)(10), its net capital would be less than 120 percent of its minimum requirement, or
(C) The amount of its then outstanding subordination agreements exceeds the limits specified in paragraph (d) of § 240.15c3-1. Such temporary subordination agreement shall be subject to all other provisions of this appendix D.
(ii) A broker or dealer shall be permitted to enter into a revolving subordinated loan agreement which provides for prepayment within less than one year of all or any portion of the Payment Obligation thereunder at the option of the broker or dealer upon the prior written approval of the Examining Authority for the broker or dealer. The Examining Authority, however, shall not approve any prepayment if:
(A) After giving effect thereto (and to all Payments of Payment Obligations under any other subordinated agreements then outstanding, the maturity or accelerated maturities of which are scheduled to fall due within six months after the date such prepayment is to occur pursuant to this provision or on or prior to the date on which the Payment Obligation in respect of such prepayment is scheduled to mature disregarding this provision, whichever date is earlier) without reference to any projected profit or loss of the broker or dealer, either aggregate indebtedness of the broker or dealer would exceed 900 percent of its net capital or its net capital would be less than 200 percent of the minimum dollar amount required by § 240.15c3-1 or, in the case of a broker or dealer operating pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of § 240.15c3-1, its net capital would be less than 6 percent of aggregate debit items computed in accordance with § 240.15c3-3a, or, if registered as a futures commission merchant, 10 percent of the funds required to be segregated pursuant to the Commodity Exchange Act and the regulations thereunder (less the market value of commodity options purchased by option customers on or subject to the rules of a contract market, each such deduction not to exceed the amount of funds in the option customer's account), if greater, or its net capital would be less than 200 percent of the minimum dollar amount required by paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section or
(B) Pre-tax losses during the latest three-month period equalled more than 15% of current excess net capital.
Any subordination agreement entered into pursuant to this paragraph (c)(5)(ii) shall be subject to all the other provisions of this Appendix D. Any such subordination agreement shall not be considered equity for purposes of subsection (d) of section 15c3-1, despite the length of the initial term of the loan.
(6)(i)
Filing.
Two copies of any proposed subordination agreement (including nonconforming subordination agreements) shall be filed at least 10 days prior to the proposed execution date of the agreement with the Commission's Regional Office for the region in which the broker or dealer maintains its principal place of business or at such other time as the Regional Office for good cause shall accept such
filing. Copies of the proposed agreement shall also be filed with the Examining Authority in such quantities and at such time as the Examining Authority may require. The broker or dealer shall also file with said parties a statement setting forth the name and address of the lender, the business relationship of the lender to the broker or dealer, and whether the broker or dealer carried funds or securities for the lender at or about the time the proposed agreement was so filed. All agreements shall be examined by the Commission's Regional Office or the Examining Authority with whom such agreement is required to be filed prior to their becoming effective. No proposed agreement shall be a satisfactory subordination agreement for the purposes of this section unless and until the Examining Authority has found the agreement acceptable and such agreement has become effective in the form found acceptable.
(ii) The broker or dealer need not file with the Regional Office for the region in which the broker or dealer maintains its principal place of business (if a Regional Office is not its Examining Authority) copies of any proposed subordination agreement or the statement described above if the Examining Authority for that broker or dealer has consented to file with the Commission periodic reports (not less than monthly) summarizing for the period, on a firm-by-firm basis, the subordination agreements it has approved for that period. Such reports should include at the minimum, the amount of the loan and its duration, the name of the lender and the business relationship of the lender to the broker or dealer.
(7)
Subordination agreements in effect prior to adoption.
Any subordination agreement which has been entered into prior to December 20, 1978 and which has been deemed to be satisfactorily subordinated pursuant to 17 CFR 240.15c3-1 as in effect prior to December 20, 1978, shall continue to be deemed a satisfactory subordination agreement until the maturity of such agreement.
Provided,
That no renewal of an agreement which provides for automatic or optional renewal by the broker or dealer or lender shall be deemed to be a satisfactory subordination agreement unless such renewed agreement meets the requirements of this appendix within 6 months from December 20, 1978.
Provided, further,
That all subordination agreements must meet the requirements of this appendix within 5 years of December 20, 1978.
[40 FR 29808, July 16, 1975, as amended at 42 FR 31778, June 23, 1977; 44 FR 34887, June 15, 1979; 46 FR 35635, July 10, 1981; 47 FR 21775, May 20, 1982; 49 FR 31848, Aug. 9, 1984; 57 FR 56988, Dec. 2, 1992; 58 FR 37657, July 13, 1993; 59 FR 5945, Feb. 9, 1994; 73 FR 32228, June 5, 2008; 84 FR 44045, Aug. 22, 2019]
§ 240.15c3-1e
Deductions for market and credit risk for certain brokers or dealers (Appendix E to 17 CFR 240.15c3-1).
Sections 240.15c3-1e and 240.15c3-1g set forth a program that allows a broker or dealer to use an alternative approach to computing net capital deductions, subject to the conditions described in §§ 240.15c3-1e and 240.15c3-1g, including supervision of the broker's or dealer's ultimate holding company under the program. The program is designed to reduce the likelihood that financial and operational weakness in the holding company will destabilize the broker or dealer, or the broader financial system. The focus of this supervision of the ultimate holding company is its financial and operational condition and its risk management controls and methodologies.

# Application
(a) A broker or dealer may apply to the Commission for authorization to compute deductions for market risk pursuant to this section in lieu of computing deductions pursuant to §§ 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi) and (vii) and 240.15c3-1b, and to compute deductions for credit risk pursuant to this section on credit exposures arising from transactions in derivatives instruments (if this section is used to calculate deductions for market risk on these instruments) in lieu of computing deductions pursuant to § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(iv) and (c)(2)(xv)(A) and (B):
(1) A broker-dealer shall submit the following information to the Commission with its application:
(i) An executive summary of the information provided to the Commission
with its application and an identification of the ultimate holding company of the broker or dealer;
(ii) A comprehensive description of the internal risk management control system of the broker or dealer and how that system satisfies the requirements set forth in § 240.15c3-4;
(iii) A list of the categories of positions that the broker or dealer holds in its proprietary accounts and a brief description of the methods that the broker or dealer will use to calculate deductions for market and credit risk on those categories of positions;
(iv) A description of the mathematical models to be used to price positions and to compute deductions for market risk, including those portions of the deductions attributable to specific risk, if applicable, and deductions for credit risk; a description of the creation, use, and maintenance of the mathematical models; a description of the broker's or dealer's internal risk management controls over those models, including a description of each category of persons who may input data into the models; if a mathematical model incorporates empirical correlations across risk categories, a description of the process for measuring correlations; a description of the backtesting procedures the broker or dealer will use to backtest the mathematical model used to calculate maximum potential exposure; a description of how each mathematical model satisfies the applicable qualitative and quantitative requirements set forth in paragraph (d) of this appendix E; and a statement describing the extent to which each mathematical model used to compute deductions for market and credit risk will be used as part of the risk analyses and reports presented to senior management;
(v) If the broker or dealer is applying to the Commission for approval to use scenario analysis to calculate deductions for market risk for certain positions, a list of those types of positions, a description of how those deductions will be calculated using scenario analysis, and an explanation of why each scenario analysis is appropriate to calculate deductions for market risk on those types of positions;
(vi) A description of how the broker or dealer will calculate current exposure;
(vii) A description of how the broker or dealer will determine internal credit ratings of counterparties and internal credit risk weights of counterparties, if applicable;
(viii) A written undertaking by the ultimate holding company of the broker or dealer, if it is not an ultimate holding company that has a principal regulator, in a form acceptable to the Commission, signed by a duly authorized person at the ultimate holding company, to the effect that, as a condition of Commission approval of the application of the broker or dealer to compute deductions for market and credit risk pursuant to this appendix E, the ultimate holding company agrees to:
(A) Comply with all applicable provisions of this appendix E;
(B) Comply with all applicable provisions of § 240.15c3-1g;
(C) Comply with the provisions of § 240.15c3-4 with respect to an internal risk management control system for the affiliate group as though it were an OTC derivatives dealer with respect to all of its business activities, except that paragraphs (c)(5)(xiii), (c)(5)(xiv), (d)(8), and (d)(9) of § 240.15c3-4 shall not apply;
(D) As part of the internal risk management control system for the affiliate group, establish, document, and maintain procedures for the detection and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing;
(E) Permit the Commission to examine the books and records of the ultimate holding company and any of its affiliates, if the affiliate is not an entity that has a principal regulator;
(F) If the disclosure to the Commission of any information required as a condition for the broker or dealer to compute deductions for market and credit risk pursuant to this appendix E could be prohibited by law or otherwise, cooperate with the Commission, to the extent permissible, including by describing any secrecy laws or other impediments that could restrict the ability of material affiliates to provide information on their operations or activities and by discussing the manner
in which the ultimate holding company and the broker or dealer propose to provide the Commission with adequate information or assurances of access to information;
(G) Make available to the Commission information about the ultimate holding company or any of its material affiliates that the Commission finds is necessary to evaluate the financial and operational risk within the ultimate holding company and its material affiliates and to evaluate compliance with the conditions of eligibility of the broker or dealer to compute deductions to net capital under the alternative method of this appendix E;
(H) Make available examination reports of principal regulators for those affiliates of the ultimate holding company that are not subject to Commission examination; and
(I) Acknowledge that, if the ultimate holding company fails to comply in a material manner with any provision of its undertaking, the Commission may, in addition to any other conditions necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, increase the multiplication factors the ultimate holding company uses to calculate allowances for market and credit risk, as defined in § 240.15c3-1g(a)(2) and (a)(3) or impose any condition with respect to the broker or dealer listed in paragraph (e) of this appendix E; and
(ix) A written undertaking by the ultimate holding company of the broker or dealer, if the ultimate holding company has a principal regulator, in a form acceptable to the Commission, signed by a duly authorized person at the ultimate holding company, to the effect that, as a condition of Commission approval of the application of the broker or dealer to compute deductions for market and credit risk pursuant to this appendix E, the ultimate holding company agrees to:
(A) Comply with all applicable provisions of this appendix E;
(B) Comply with all applicable provisions of § 240.15c3-1g;
(C) Make available to the Commission information about the ultimate holding company that the Commission finds is necessary to evaluate the financial and operational risk within the ultimate holding company and to evaluate compliance with the conditions of eligibility of the broker or dealer to compute net capital under the alternative method of this appendix E; and
(D) Acknowledge that if the ultimate holding company fails to comply in a material manner with any provision of its undertaking, the Commission may, in addition to any other conditions necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, impose any condition with respect to the broker or dealer listed in paragraph (e) of this appendix E;
(2) As a condition of Commission approval, the ultimate holding company of the broker or dealer, if it is not an ultimate holding company that has a principal regulator, shall include the following information with the application:
(i) A narrative description of the business and organization of the ultimate holding company;
(ii) An alphabetical list of the affiliates of the ultimate holding company (referred to as the “affiliate group,” which shall include the ultimate holding company), with an identification of the financial regulator, if any, that regulates the affiliate, and a designation of the members of the affiliate group that are material to the ultimate holding company (“material affiliates”);
(iii) An organizational chart that identifies the ultimate holding company, the broker or dealer, and the material affiliates;
(iv) Consolidated and consolidating financial statements of the ultimate holding company as of the end of the quarter preceding the filing of the application;
(v) Sample computations for the ultimate holding company of allowable capital and allowances for market risk, credit risk, and operational risk, determined pursuant to § 240.15c3-1g(a)(1)-(a)(4);
(vi) A list of the categories of positions that the affiliate group holds in its proprietary accounts and a brief description of the method that the ultimate holding company proposes to use to calculate allowances for market and credit risk, pursuant to § 240.15c3-
1g(a)(2) and (a)(3), on those categories of positions;
(vii) A description of the mathematical models to be used to price positions and to compute the allowance for market risk, including those portions of the allowance attributable to specific risk, if applicable, and the allowance for credit risk; a description of the creation, use, and maintenance of the mathematical models; a description of the ultimate holding company's internal risk management controls over those models, including a description of each category of persons who may input data into the models; if a mathematical model incorporates empirical correlations across risk categories, a description of the process for measuring correlations; a description of the backtesting procedures the ultimate holding company will use to backtest the mathematical model used to calculate maximum potential exposure; a description of how each mathematical model satisfies the applicable qualitative and quantitative requirements set forth in paragraph (d) of this appendix E; a statement describing the extent to which each mathematical model used to compute allowances for market and credit risk is used as part of the risk analyses and reports presented to senior management; and a description of any positions for which the ultimate holding company proposes to use a method other than VaR to compute an allowance for market risk and a description of how that allowance would be determined;
(viii) A description of how the ultimate holding company will calculate current exposure;
(ix) A description of how the ultimate holding company will determine the credit risk weights of counterparties and internal credit ratings of counterparties, if applicable;
(x) A description of how the ultimate holding company will calculate an allowance for operational risk under § 240.15c3-1g(a)(4);
(xi) For each instance in which a mathematical model used by the broker or dealer to calculate a deduction for market risk or to calculate maximum potential exposure for a particular product or counterparty differs from the mathematical model used by the ultimate holding company to calculate an allowance for market risk or to calculate maximum potential exposure for that same product or counterparty, a description of the difference(s) between the mathematical models;
(xii) A comprehensive description of the risk management control system for the affiliate group that the ultimate holding company has established to manage affiliate group-wide risk, including market, credit, liquidity and funding, legal and compliance, and operational risks, and how that system satisfies the requirements of § 240.15c3-4; and
(xiii) Sample risk reports that are provided to the persons at the ultimate holding company who are responsible for managing group-wide risk and that will be provided to the Commission pursuant to § 240.15c3-1g(b)(1)(i)(H);
(3) As a condition of Commission approval, the ultimate holding company of the broker or dealer, if the ultimate holding company has a principal regulator, shall include the following information with the broker's or dealer's application:
(i) A narrative description of the business and organization of the ultimate holding company;
(ii) An alphabetical list of the affiliates of the ultimate holding company (referred to as the “affiliate group,” which shall include the ultimate holding company), with an identification of the financial regulator, if any, that regulates the affiliate, and a designation of those affiliates that are material to the ultimate holding company (“material affiliates”);
(iii) An organizational chart that identifies the ultimate holding company, the broker or dealer, and the material affiliates;
(iv) Consolidated and consolidating financial statements of the ultimate holding company as of the end of the quarter preceding the filing of the application;
(v) The most recent capital measurements of the ultimate holding company, as reported to its principal regulator, calculated in accordance with the standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, as amended from time to time;
(vi) For each instance in which a mathematical model to be used by the broker or dealer to calculate a deduction for market risk or to calculate maximum potential exposure for a particular product or counterparty differs from the mathematical model used by the ultimate holding company to calculate an allowance for market risk or to calculate maximum potential exposure for that same product or counterparty, a description of the difference(s) between the mathematical models; and
(vii) Sample risk reports that are provided to the persons at the ultimate holding company who are responsible for managing group-wide risk and that will be provided to the Commission under § 240.15c3-1g(b)(1)(i)(H);
(4) The application of the broker or dealer shall be supplemented by other information relating to the internal risk management control system, mathematical models, and financial position of the broker or dealer or the ultimate holding company of the broker or dealer that the Commission may request to complete its review of the application;
(5) The application shall be considered filed when received at the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC. A person who files an application pursuant to this section for which it seeks confidential treatment may clearly mark each page or segregable portion of each page with the words “Confidential Treatment Requested.” All information submitted in connection with the application will be accorded confidential treatment, to the extent permitted by law;
(6) If any of the information filed with the Commission as part of the application of the broker or dealer is found to be or becomes inaccurate before the Commission approves the application, the broker or dealer must notify the Commission promptly and provide the Commission with a description of the circumstances in which the information was found to be or has become inaccurate along with updated, accurate information;
(7)(i) The Commission may approve the application or an amendment to the application, in whole or in part, subject to any conditions or limitations the Commission may require, if the Commission finds the approval to be necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, after determining, among other things, whether the broker or dealer has met the requirements of this appendix E and is in compliance with other applicable rules promulgated under the Act and by self-regulatory organizations, and whether the ultimate holding company of the broker or dealer is in compliance with the terms of its undertakings, as provided to the Commission;
(ii) The Commission may approve the temporary use of a provisional model in whole or in part, subject to any conditions or limitations the Commission may require, if:
(A) The broker or dealer has a complete application pending under this section;
(B) The use of the provisional model has been approved by:
(
1
) A prudential regulator;
(
2
) The Commodity Futures Trading Commission or a futures association registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under section 17 of the Commodity Exchange Act;
(
3
) A foreign financial regulatory authority that administers a foreign financial regulatory system with capital requirements that the Commission has found are eligible for substituted compliance under § 240.3a71-6 if the provisional model is used for the purposes of calculating net capital;
(
4
) A foreign financial regulatory authority that administers a foreign financial regulatory system with margin requirements that the Commission has found are eligible for substituted compliance under § 240.3a71-6 if the provisional model is used for the purposes of calculating initial margin pursuant to § 240.18a-3; or
(
5
) Any other foreign supervisory authority that the Commission finds has approved and monitored the use of the provisional model through a process comparable to the process set forth in this section.
(8) A broker or dealer shall amend its application to calculate certain deductions for market and credit risk under
this appendix E and submit the amendment to the Commission for approval before it may change materially a mathematical model used to calculate market or credit risk or before it may change materially its internal risk management control system;
(9) As a condition to the broker's or dealer's calculation of deductions for market and credit risk under this appendix E, an ultimate holding company that does not have a principal regulator shall submit to the Commission, as an amendment to the broker's or dealer's application, any material changes to a mathematical model or other methods used to calculate allowances for market, credit, and operational risk, and any material changes to the internal risk management control system for the affiliate group. The ultimate holding company must submit these material changes to the Commission before making them;
(10) As a condition for the broker or dealer to compute deductions for market and credit risk under this appendix E, the broker or dealer agrees that:
(i) It will notify the Commission 45 days before it ceases to compute deductions for market and credit risk under this appendix E; and
(ii) The Commission may determine by order that the notice will become effective after a shorter or longer period of time if the broker or dealer consents or if the Commission determines that a shorter or longer period of time is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors; and
(11) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(10) of this section, the Commission, by order, may revoke a broker's or dealer's exemption that allows it to use the market risk standards of this appendix E to calculate deductions for market risk, instead of the provisions of § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi) and (c)(2)(vii), and the exemption to use the credit risk standards of this appendix E to calculate deductions for credit risk on certain credit exposures arising from transactions in derivatives instruments, instead of the provisions of § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(iv), if the Commission finds that such exemption is no longer necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. In making its finding, the Commission will consider the compliance history of the broker or dealer related to its use of models, the financial and operational strength of the broker or dealer and its ultimate holding company, the broker's or dealer's compliance with its internal risk management controls, and the ultimate holding company's compliance with its undertakings.

# Market Risk
(b) A broker or dealer whose application, including amendments, has been approved under paragraph (a) of this appendix E shall compute a deduction for market risk in an amount equal to the sum of the following:
(1) For positions for which the Commission has approved the broker's or dealer's use of value-at risk (“VaR”) models, the VaR of the positions multiplied by the appropriate multiplication factor determined according to paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this appendix E, except that the initial multiplication factor shall be three, unless the Commission determines, based on a review of the broker's or dealer's application or an amendment to the application under paragraph (a) of this appendix E, including a review of its internal risk management control system and practices and VaR models, that another multiplication factor is appropriate;
(2) For positions for which the VaR model does not incorporate specific risk, a deduction for specific risk to be determined by the Commission based on a review of the broker's or dealer's application or an amendment to the application under paragraph (a) of this appendix E and the positions involved;
(3) For positions for which the Commission has approved the broker's or dealer's application to use scenario analysis, the greatest loss resulting from a range of adverse movements in relevant risk factors, prices, or spreads designed to represent a negative movement greater than, or equal to, the worst ten-day movement over the four years preceding calculation of the greatest loss, or some multiple of the greatest loss based on the liquidity of the positions subject to scenario analysis. If historical data is insufficient, the deduction shall be the largest loss
within a three standard deviation movement in those risk factors, prices, or spreads over a ten-day period, multiplied by an appropriate liquidity adjustment factor. Irrespective of the deduction otherwise indicated under scenario analysis, the resulting deduction for market risk must be at least $25 per 100 share equivalent contract for equity positions, or one-half of one percent of the face value of the contract for all other types of contracts, even if the scenario analysis indicates a lower amount. A qualifying scenario must include the following:
(i) A set of pricing equations for the positions based on, for example, arbitrage relations, statistical analysis, historic relationships, merger evaluation, or fundamental valuation of an offering of securities;
(ii) Auxiliary relationships mapping risk factors to prices; and
(iii) Data demonstrating the effectiveness of the scenario in capturing market risk, including specific risk; and
(4) For all remaining positions, the deductions specified in §§ 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi), (c)(2)(vii), and applicable appendices to § 240.15c3-1.

# Credit Risk
(c) A broker or dealer whose application, including amendments, has been approved under paragraph (a) of this appendix E shall compute a deduction for credit risk on transactions in derivative instruments (if this appendix E is used to calculate a deduction for market risk on those instruments) in an amount equal to the sum of the following:
(1) A counterparty exposure charge in an amount equal to the sum of the following:
(i) The net replacement value in the account of each counterparty that is insolvent, or in bankruptcy, or that has senior unsecured long-term debt in default; and
(ii) For a counterparty not otherwise described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this appendix E, the credit equivalent amount of the broker's or dealer's exposure to the counterparty, as defined in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this appendix E, multiplied by the credit risk weight of the counterparty, as defined in paragraph (c)(4)(vi) of this appendix E, multiplied by 8%;
(2) A concentration charge by counterparty in an amount equal to the sum of the following:
(i) For each counterparty with a credit risk weight of 20% or less, 5% of the amount of the current exposure to the counterparty in excess of 5% of the tentative net capital of the broker or dealer;
(ii) For each counterparty with a credit risk weight of greater than 20% but less than 50%, 20% of the amount of the current exposure to the counterparty in excess of 5% of the tentative net capital of the broker or dealer; and
(iii) For each counterparty with a credit risk weight of greater than 50%, 50% of the amount of the current exposure to the counterparty in excess of 5% of the tentative net capital of the broker or dealer; and
(3) A portfolio concentration charge of 100 percent of the amount of the broker's or dealer's aggregate current exposure for all counterparties in excess of 10 percent of the tentative net capital of the broker or dealer;
(4)
Terms.
(i) The
credit equivalent amount
of the broker's or dealer's exposure to a counterparty is the sum of the broker's or dealer's maximum potential exposure to the counterparty, as defined in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this appendix E, multiplied by the appropriate multiplication factor, and the broker's or dealer's current exposure to the counterparty, as defined in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this appendix E. The broker or dealer must use the multiplication factor determined according to paragraph (d)(1)(v) of this appendix E, except that the initial multiplication factor shall be one, unless the Commission determines, based on a review of the broker's or dealer's application or an amendment to the application approved under paragraph (a) of this appendix E, including a review of its internal risk management control system and practices and VaR models, that another multiplication factor is appropriate;
(ii) The
maximum potential exposure
is the VaR of the counterparty's positions with the broker or dealer, after applying netting agreements with the
counterparty meeting the requirements of paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this appendix E, taking into account the value of collateral from the counterparty held by the broker or dealer in accordance with paragraph (c)(4)(v) of this appendix E, and taking into account the current replacement value of the counterparty's positions with the broker or dealer;
(iii) The
current exposure
of the broker or dealer to a counterparty is the current replacement value of the counterparty's positions with the broker or dealer, after applying netting agreements with the counterparty meeting the requirements of paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this appendix E and taking into account the value of collateral from the counterparty held by the broker or dealer in accordance with paragraph (c)(4)(v) of this appendix E;
(iv)
Netting agreements.
A broker or dealer may include the effect of a netting agreement that allows the broker or dealer to net gross receivables from and gross payables to a counterparty upon default of the counterparty if:
(A) The netting agreement is legally enforceable in each relevant jurisdiction, including in insolvency proceedings;
(B) The gross receivables and gross payables that are subject to the netting agreement with a counterparty can be determined at any time; and
(C) For internal risk management purposes, the broker-dealer monitors and controls its exposure to the counterparty on a net basis;
(v)
Collateral.
When calculating maximum potential exposure and current exposure to a counterparty, the fair market value of collateral pledged and held may be taken into account provided:
(A) The collateral is marked to market each day and is subject to a daily margin maintenance requirement;
(B) The collateral is subject to the broker's or dealer's physical possession or control;
(
1
) The collateral is subject to the broker's or dealer's physical possession or control and may be liquidated promptly by the firm without intervention by any other party; or
(
2
) The collateral is held by an independent third-party custodian that is a bank as defined in section 3(a)(6) of the Act or a registered U.S. clearing organization or depository that is not affiliated with the counterparty or, if the collateral consists of foreign securities or currencies, a supervised foreign bank, clearing organization, or depository that is not affiliated with the counterparty and that customarily maintains custody of such foreign securities or currencies;
(C) The collateral is liquid and transferable;
(D) The collateral agreement is legally enforceable by the broker or dealer against the counterparty and any other parties to the agreement;
(E) The collateral does not consist of securities issued by the counterparty or a party related to the broker or dealer or to the counterparty;
(F) The Commission has approved the broker's or dealer's use of a VaR model to calculate deductions for market risk for the type of collateral in accordance with this appendix E; and
(G) The collateral is not used in determining the credit rating of the counterparty;
(vi)
Credit risk weights of counterparties.
A broker or dealer that computes its deductions for credit risk pursuant to this Appendix E shall apply a credit risk weight for transactions with a counterparty of either 20%, 50%, or 150% based on an internal credit rating the broker or dealer determines for the counterparty.
(A) As part of its initial application or in an amendment, the broker or dealer may request Commission approval to apply a credit risk weight of either 20%, 50%, or 150% based on internal calculations of credit ratings, including internal estimates of the maturity adjustment. Based on the strength of the broker's or dealer's internal credit risk management system, the Commission may approve the application. The broker or dealer must make and keep current a record of the basis for the credit rating of each counterparty;
(B) For the portion of a current exposure covered by a written guarantee where that guarantee is an unconditional and irrevocable guarantee of the due and punctual payment and performance of the obligation and the
broker or dealer can demand immediate payment from the guarantor after any payment is missed without having to make collection efforts, the broker or dealer may substitute the credit risk weight of the guarantor for the credit risk weight of the counterparty; and
(C) As part of its initial application or in an amendment, the broker or dealer may request Commission approval to reduce deductions for credit risk through the use of credit derivatives.

# VaR Models
(d) To be approved, each VaR model must meet the following minimum qualitative and quantitative requirements:
(1)
Qualitative requirements.
(i) The VaR model used to calculate market or credit risk for a position must be integrated into the daily internal risk management system of the broker or dealer;
(ii) The VaR model must be reviewed both periodically and annually. The periodic review may be conducted by the broker's or dealer's internal audit staff, but the annual review must be conducted by a registered public accounting firm, as that term is defined in section 2(a)(12) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (15 U.S.C. 7201
et seq.
); and
(iii) For purposes of computing market risk, the broker or dealer must determine the appropriate multiplication factor as follows:
(A) Beginning three months after the broker or dealer begins using the VaR model to calculate market risk, the broker or dealer must conduct backtesting of the model by comparing its actual daily net trading profit or loss with the corresponding VaR measure generated by the VaR model, using a 99 percent, one-tailed confidence level with price changes equivalent to a one business-day movement in rates and prices, for each of the past 250 business days, or other period as may be appropriate for the first year of its use;
(B) On the last business day of each quarter, the broker or dealer must identify the number of backtesting exceptions of the VaR model, that is, the number of business days in the past 250 business days, or other period as may be appropriate for the first year of its use, for which the actual net trading loss, if any, exceeds the corresponding VaR measure; and
(C) The broker or dealer must use the multiplication factor indicated in Table 1 of this appendix E in determining its market risk until it obtains the next quarter's backtesting results;
Table 1—Multiplication factor based on the number of backtesting exceptions of the VaR model
Number of exceptions
Multiplication factor
4 or fewer
3.00
5
3.40
6
3.50
7
3.65
8
3.75
9
3.85
10 or more
4.00
(iv) For purposes of incorporating specific risk into a VaR model, a broker or dealer must demonstrate that it has methodologies in place to capture liquidity, event, and default risk adequately for each position. Furthermore, the models used to calculate deductions for specific risk must:
(A) Explain the historical price variation in the portfolio;
(B) Capture concentration (magnitude and changes in composition);
(C) Be robust to an adverse environment; and
(D) Be validated through backtesting; and
(v) For purposes of computing the credit equivalent amount of the broker's or dealer's exposures to a counterparty, the broker or dealer must determine the appropriate multiplication factor as follows:
(A) Beginning three months after it begins using the VaR model to calculate maximum potential exposure, the broker or dealer must conduct backtesting of the model by comparing, for at least 80 counterparties with widely varying types and sizes of positions with the firm, the ten-business day change in its current exposure to the counterparty based on its positions held at the beginning of the ten-business day period with the corresponding ten-business day maximum potential exposure for the
counterparty generated by the VaR model;
(B) As of the last business day of each quarter, the broker or dealer must identify the number of backtesting exceptions of the VaR model, that is, the number of ten-business day periods in the past 250 business days, or other period as may be appropriate for the first year of its use, for which the change in current exposure to a counterparty exceeds the corresponding maximum potential exposure; and
(C) The broker or dealer will propose, as part of its application, a schedule of multiplication factors, which must be approved by the Commission based on the number of backtesting exceptions of the VaR model. The broker or dealer must use the multiplication factor indicated in the approved schedule in determining the credit equivalent amount of its exposures to a counterparty until it obtains the next quarter's backtesting results, unless the Commission determines, based on, among other relevant factors, a review of the broker's or dealer's internal risk management control system, including a review of the VaR model, that a different adjustment or other action is appropriate;
(2)
Quantitative requirements.
(i) For purposes of determining market risk, the VaR model must use a 99 percent, one-tailed confidence level with price changes equivalent to a ten business-day movement in rates and prices;
(ii) For purposes of determining maximum potential exposure, the VaR model must use a 99 percent, one-tailed confidence level with price changes equivalent to a one-year movement in rates and prices; or based on a review of the broker's or dealer's procedures for managing collateral and if the collateral is marked to market daily and the broker or dealer has the ability to call for additional collateral daily, the Commission may approve a time horizon of not less than ten business days;
(iii) The VaR model must use an effective historical observation period of at least one year. The broker or dealer must consider the effects of market stress in its construction of the model. Historical data sets must be updated at least monthly and reassessed whenever market prices or volatilities change significantly; and
(iv) The VaR model must take into account and incorporate all significant, identifiable market risk factors applicable to positions in the accounts of the broker or dealer, including:
(A) Risks arising from the non-linear price characteristics of derivatives and the sensitivity of the market value of those positions to changes in the volatility of the derivatives' underlying rates and prices;
(B) Empirical correlations with and across risk factors or, alternatively, risk factors sufficient to cover all the market risk inherent in the positions in the proprietary or other trading accounts of the broker or dealer, including interest rate risk, equity price risk, foreign exchange risk, and commodity price risk;
(C) Spread risk, where applicable, and segments of the yield curve sufficient to capture differences in volatility and imperfect correlation of rates along the yield curve for securities and derivatives that are sensitive to different interest rates; and
(D) Specific risk for individual positions.

# Additional Conditions
(e) As a condition for the broker or dealer to use this appendix E to calculate certain of its capital charges, the Commission may impose additional conditions on the broker or dealer, which may include, but are not limited to restricting the broker's or dealer's business on a product-specific, category-specific, or general basis; submitting to the Commission a plan to increase the broker's or dealer's net capital or tentative net capital; filing more frequent reports with the Commission; modifying the broker's or dealer's internal risk management control procedures; or computing the broker's or dealer's deductions for market and credit risk in accordance with § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(iv), (vi), and (vii), (c)(2)(xv)(A) and (B), as appropriate, and § 240.15c-1b, as appropriate. If it is not an ultimate holding company that has a principal regulator, the Commission also may require, as a condition of continuation of the exemption, the ultimate holding company of the broker
or dealer to file more frequent reports or to modify its group-wide internal risk management control procedures. If the Commission finds it is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, the Commission may impose additional conditions on either the broker-dealer, or the ultimate holding company, if it is an ultimate holding company that does not have a principal regulator, if:
(1) The broker or dealer is required by § 240.15c3-1(a)(7)(ii) to provide notice to the Commission that the broker's or dealer's tentative net capital is less than $6 billion;
(2) The broker or dealer or the ultimate holding company of the broker or dealer fails to meet the reporting requirements set forth in § 240.17a-5 or 240.15c3-1g(b), as applicable;
(3) Any event specified in § 240.17a-11 occurs;
(4) There is a material deficiency in the internal risk management control system or in the mathematical models used to price securities or to calculate deductions for market and credit risk or allowances for market and credit risk, as applicable, of the broker or dealer or the ultimate holding company of the broker or dealer;
(5) The ultimate holding company of the broker or dealer fails to comply with its undertakings that the broker or dealer has filed with its application pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(viii) or (a)(1)(ix) of this appendix E;
(6) The broker or dealer fails to comply with this appendix E; or
(7) The Commission finds that imposition of other conditions is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
[69 FR 34462, June 21, 2004, as amended at 79 FR 1549, Jan. 8, 2014; 79 FR 38451, July 8, 2014; 84 FR 44046, Aug. 22, 2019]
§ 240.15c3-1f
Optional market and credit risk requirements for OTC derivatives dealers (Appendix F to 17 CFR 240.15c3-1).

# Application Requirements
(a) An OTC derivatives dealer may apply to the Commission for authorization to compute capital charges for market and credit risk pursuant to this Appendix F in lieu of computing securities haircuts pursuant to § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi).
(1) An OTC derivatives dealer's application shall contain the following information:
(i)
Executive summary.
An OTC derivatives dealer shall include in its application an Executive Summary of information provided to the Commission.
(ii)
Description of methods for computing market risk charges.
An OTC derivatives dealer shall provide a description of all statistical models used for pricing OTC derivative instruments and for computing value-at-risk (“VAR”), a description of the applicant's controls over those models, and a statement regarding whether the firm has developed its own internal VAR models. If the OTC derivatives dealer's VAR model incorporates empirical correlations across risk categories, the dealer shall describe its process for measuring correlations and describe the qualitative and quantitative aspects of the model which at a minimum must adhere to the criteria set forth in paragraph (e) of this appendix F. The application shall further state whether the OTC derivatives dealer intends to use an alternative method for computing its market risk charge for equity instruments and, if applicable, a description of how its own theoretical pricing model contains the minimum pricing factors set forth in appendix A (§ 240.15c3-1a). The application shall also describe any category of securities having no ready market or any category of debt securities which are below investment grade for which the OTC derivatives dealer wishes to use its VAR model to calculate its market risk charge or for which it wishes to use an alternative method for computing this charge and a description of how those charges would be determined.
(iii)
Internal risk management control systems.
An OTC derivatives dealer shall provide a comprehensive description of its internal risk management control systems and how those systems adhere to the requirements set forth in § 240.15c3-4(a) through (d).
(2) The Commission may approve the application after reviewing the application to determine whether the OTC derivatives dealer:
(i) Has adopted internal risk management control systems that meet the requirements set forth in § 240.15c3-4; and
(ii) Has adopted a VAR model that meets the requirements set forth in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this appendix F.
(3) If the OTC derivatives dealer materially amends its VAR model or internal risk management control systems as described in its application, including any material change in the categories of non-marketable securities that it wishes to include in its VAR model, the dealer shall file an application describing the changes which must be approved by the Commission before the changes may be implemented. After reviewing the application for changes to the dealer's VAR model or internal risk management control systems to determine whether, with the changes, the OTC derivatives dealer's VAR model and internal risk management control systems would meet the requirements set forth in this appendix F and § 240.15c3-4, the Commission may approve the application.
(4) The applications provided for in this paragraph (a) shall be considered filed when received at the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC. All applications filed pursuant to this paragraph (a) shall be deemed to be confidential.

# Compliance With § 240.15c3-4
(b) An OTC derivatives dealer must be in compliance in all material respects with § 240.15c3-4 regarding its internal risk management control systems in order to be in compliance with § 240.15c3-1.

# Market Risk
(c) An OTC derivatives dealer electing to apply this appendix F shall compute a capital charge for market risk which shall be the aggregate of the charges computed below:
(1)
Value-at-Risk.
An OTC derivatives dealer shall deduct from net worth an amount for market risk for eligible OTC derivative instruments and other positions in its proprietary or other accounts equal to the VAR of these positions obtained from its proprietary VAR model, multiplied by the appropriate multiplication factor in paragraph (e)(1)(iv)(C) of this appendix F. The OTC derivatives dealer may not elect to calculate its capital charges under this paragraph (c)(1) until its application to use the VAR model has been approved by the Commission.
(2)
Alternative method for equities.
An OTC derivatives dealer may elect to use this alternative method to calculate its market risk for equity instruments, including OTC options, upon approval by the Commission on application by the dealer. Under this alternative method, the deduction for market risk must be the amount computed pursuant to appendix A to Rule 15c3-1
(§ 240.15c3-1a). In this computation, the OTC derivatives dealer may use its own theoretical pricing model provided that it contains the minimum pricing factors set forth in appendix A.
(3)
Non-marketable securities.
An OTC derivatives dealer may not use a VAR model to determine a capital charge for any category of securities having no ready market or any category of debt securities which are below investment grade or any derivative instrument based on the value of these categories of securities, unless the Commission has granted, pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this appendix F, its application to use its VAR model for any such category of securities. The dealer in any event may apply, pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this appendix F, for an alternative treatment for any such category of securities, rather than calculate the market risk capital charge for such category of securities under § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi) and (vii).
(4)
Residual positions.
To the extent that a position has not been included in the calculation of the market risk charge in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section, the market risk charge for the position shall be computed under § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi).

# Credit Risk
(d) The capital charge for credit risk arising from an OTC derivatives dealer's transactions in eligible OTC derivative instruments shall be:
(1) The net replacement value in the account of a counterparty (including the effect of legally enforceable netting
agreements and the application of liquid collateral) that is insolvent, or in bankruptcy, or that has senior unsecured long-term debt in default;
(2) As to a counterparty not otherwise described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the net replacement value in the account of the counterparty (including the effect of legally enforceable netting agreements and the application of liquid collateral) multiplied by 8%, and further multiplied by a counterparty factor of 20%, 50%, or 100% based on an internal credit rating the OTC derivatives dealer determines for the counterparty; and
(3) A concentration charge where the net replacement value in the account of any one counterparty (other than a counterparty described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section) exceeds 25% of the OTC derivatives dealer's tentative net capital, calculated as follows:
(i) For counterparties for which an OTC derivatives dealer assigns an internal rating for senior unsecured long-term debt or commercial paper that would apply a 20% counterparty factor under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, 5% of the amount of the net replacement value in excess of 25% of the OTC derivatives dealer's tentative net capital;
(ii) For counterparties for which an OTC derivatives dealer assigns an internal rating for senior unsecured long-term debt that would apply a 50% counterparty factor under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, 20% of the amount of the net replacement value in excess of 25% of the OTC derivatives dealer's tentative net capital;
(iii) For counterparties for which an OTC derivatives dealer assigns an internal rating for senior unsecured long-term debt that would apply a 100% counterparty factor under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, 50% of the amount of the net replacement value in excess of 25% of the OTC derivatives dealer's tentative net capital.
(4) Counterparties may be rated by the OTC derivatives dealer, or by an affiliated bank or affiliated broker-dealer of the OTC derivatives dealer, upon approval by the Commission on application by the OTC derivatives dealer. Based on the strength of the OTC derivatives dealer's internal credit risk management system, the Commission may approve the application. The OTC derivatives dealer must make and keep current a record of the basis for the credit rating for each counterparty.

# VAR Models
(e) An OTC derivatives dealer's VAR model must meet the following qualitative and quantitative requirements:
(1)
Qualitative requirements.
An OTC derivatives dealer applying this appendix F must have a VAR model that meets the following minimum qualitative requirements:
(i) The OTC derivatives dealer's VAR model must be integrated into the firm's daily risk management process;
(ii) The OTC derivatives dealer must conduct appropriate stress tests of the VAR model, and develop appropriate procedures to follow in response to the results of such tests;
(iii) The OTC derivatives dealer must conduct periodic reviews (which may be performed by internal audit staff) of its VAR model. The OTC derivatives dealer's VAR model also must be subject to annual reviews conducted by independent public accountants; and
(iv) The OTC derivatives dealer must conduct backtesting of the VAR model pursuant to the following procedures:
(A) Beginning one year after the OTC derivatives dealer begins using its VAR model to calculate its net capital, the OTC derivatives dealer must conduct backtesting by comparing each of its most recent 250 business days' actual net trading profit or loss with the corresponding daily VAR measures generated for determining market risk capital charges and calibrated to a one-day holding period and a 99 percent, one-tailed confidence level;
(B) Once each quarter, the OTC derivatives dealer must identify the number of exceptions, that is, the number of business days for which the actual daily net trading loss, if any, exceeded the corresponding daily VAR measure; and
(C) An OTC derivatives dealer must use the multiplication factor indicated in Table 1 of this appendix F in determining its capital charge for market risk until it obtains the next quarter's
backtesting results, unless the Commission determines that a different adjustment or other action is appropriate.
Table 5—Multiplication Factor Based on Results of Backtesting
Number of exceptions
Multiplication factor
4 or fewer
3.00
5
3.40
6
3.50
7
3.65
8
3.75
9
3.85
10 or more
4.00
(2)
Quantitative requirements.
An OTC derivatives dealer applying this appendix F must have a VAR model that meets the following minimum quantitative requirements:
(i) The VAR measures must be calculated on a daily basis using a 99 percent, one-tailed confidence level with a price change equivalent to a ten-business day movement in rates and prices;
(ii) The effective historical observation period for VAR measures must be at least one year, and the weighted average time lag of the individual observations cannot be less than six months. Historical data sets must be updated at least every three months and reassessed whenever market prices or volatilities are subject to large changes;
(iii) The VAR measures must include the risks arising from the non-linear price characteristics of options positions and the sensitivity of the market value of the positions to changes in the volatility of the underlying rates or prices. An OTC derivatives dealer must measure the volatility of options positions by different maturities;
(iv) The VAR measures may incorporate empirical correlations within and across risk categories, provided that the OTC derivatives dealer has described its process for measuring correlations in its application to apply this appendix F and the Commission has approved its application. In the event that the VAR measures do not incorporate empirical correlations across risk categories, the OTC derivatives dealer must add the separate VAR measures for the four major risk categories in paragraph (e)(2)(v) of this appendix F to determine its aggregate VAR measure; and
(v) The OTC derivatives dealer's VAR model must use risk factors sufficient to measure the market risk inherent in all covered positions. The risk factors must address, at a minimum, the following major risk categories: interest rate risk, equity price risk, foreign exchange rate risk, and commodity price risk. For material exposures in the major currencies and markets, modeling techniques must capture, at a minimum, spread risk and must incorporate enough segments of the yield curve to capture differences in volatility and less-than-perfect correlation of rates along the yield curve. An OTC derivatives dealer must provide the Commission with evidence that the OTC derivatives dealer's VAR model takes account of specific risk in positions, including specific equity risk, if the OTC derivatives dealer intends to utilize its VAR model to compute capital charges for equity price risk.
[63 FR 59398, Nov. 3, 1998, as amended at 79 FR 1549, Jan. 8, 2014]
§ 240.15c3-1g
Conditions for ultimate holding companies of certain brokers or dealers (Appendix G to 17 CFR 240.15c3-1).
As a condition for a broker or dealer to compute certain of its deductions to capital in accordance with § 240.15c3-1e, pursuant to its undertaking, the ultimate holding company of the broker or dealer shall:

# Conditions Regarding Computation of Allowable Capital and Risk Allowances
(a) If it is not an ultimate holding company that has a principal regulator, as that term is defined in § 240.15c3-1(c)(13), calculate allowable capital and allowances for market, credit, and operational risk on a consolidated basis as follows:
(1)
Allowable capital.
The ultimate holding company must compute allowable capital as the sum of:
(i) Common shareholders' equity on the consolidated balance sheet of the holding company less:
(A) Goodwill;
(B) Deferred tax assets, except those permitted for inclusion in Tier 1 capital by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve”) (12 CFR 225, appendix A);
(C) Other intangible assets; and
(D) Other deductions from common stockholders' equity as required by the Federal Reserve in calculating Tier 1 capital (as defined in 12 CFR 225, appendix A);
(ii) Cumulative and non-cumulative preferred stock, except that the amount of cumulative preferred stock may not exceed 33% of the items included in allowable capital pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this appendix G, excluding cumulative preferred stock, provided that:
(A) The stock does not have a maturity date;
(B) The stock cannot be redeemed at the option of the holder of the instrument;
(C) The stock has no other provisions that will require future redemption of the issue; and
(D) The issuer of the stock can defer or eliminate dividends;
(iii) The sum of the following items on the consolidated balance sheet, to the extent that the sum does not exceed the sum of the items included in allowable capital pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this Appendix G:
(A) Cumulative preferred stock in excess of the 33% limit specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this appendix G and subject to the conditions of paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) through (D) of this appendix G;
(B) Subordinated debt if the original weighted average maturity of the subordinated debt is at least five years; each subordinated debt instrument states clearly on its face that repayment of the debt is not protected by any Federal agency or the Securities Investor Protection Corporation; the subordinated debt is unsecured and subordinated in right of payment to all senior indebtedness of the ultimate holding company; and the subordinated debt instrument permits acceleration only in the event of bankruptcy or reorganization of the ultimate holding company under Chapters 7 (liquidation) and 11 (reorganization) of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code; and
(C) As part of the broker's or dealer's application to calculate deductions for market and credit risk under § 240.15c3-1e, an ultimate holding company may request to include, for a period of three years after adoption of this appendix G, long-term debt that has an original weighted average maturity of at least five years and that cannot be accelerated, except upon the occurrence of certain events as the Commission may approve. As part of a subsequent amendment to the broker's or dealer's application, the broker or dealer may request permission for the ultimate holding company to include long-term debt that meets these criteria in allowable capital for up to an additional two years; and
(iv) Hybrid capital instruments that are permitted for inclusion in Tier 2 capital by the Federal Reserve (as defined in 12 CFR 225, appendix A);
(2)
Allowance for market risk.
The ultimate holding company shall compute an allowance for market risk for all proprietary positions, including debt instruments, equity instruments, commodity instruments, foreign exchange contracts, and derivative contracts, as the aggregate of the following:
(i)
Value at risk.
The VaR of its positions, multiplied by the appropriate multiplication factor as set forth in § 240.15c3-1e(d). The VaR of the positions must be obtained using approved VaR models meeting the applicable qualitative and quantitative requirements of § 240.15c3-1e(d); and
(ii)
Alternative method.
For positions for which there does not exist adequate historical data to support a VaR model, the ultimate holding company must propose a model that produces a suitable allowance for market risk for those positions;
(3)
Allowance for credit risk.
The ultimate holding company shall compute an allowance for credit risk for certain assets on the consolidated balance sheet and certain off-balance sheet items, including loans and loan commitments, exposures due to derivatives contracts, structured financial products, and other extensions of credit, and credit substitutes as follows:
(i) By multiplying the credit equivalent amount of the ultimate holding company's exposure to the counterparty, as defined in paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(A), (B) and (C) of this appendix G, by the appropriate credit risk weight, as defined in paragraph (a)(3)(i)(F) of this appendix G, of the asset, off-balance sheet item, or counterparty, then multiplying that product by 8%, in accordance with the following:
(A) For certain loans and loan commitments, the credit equivalent amount is determined by multiplying the nominal amount of the contract by the following credit conversion factors:
(
1
) 0% credit conversion factor for loan commitments that:
(
i
) May be unconditionally cancelled by the lender; or
(
ii
) May be cancelled by the lender due to credit deterioration of the borrower;
(
2
) 20% credit conversion factor for:
(
i
) Loan commitments of less than one year; or
(
ii
) Short-term self-liquidating trade related contingencies, including letters of credit;
(
3
) 50% credit conversion factor for loan commitments with an original maturity of greater than one year that contain transaction contingencies, including performance bonds, revolving underwriting facilities, note issuance facilities and bid bonds; and
(
4
) 100% credit conversion factor for bankers' acceptances, stand-by letters of credit, and forward purchases of assets, and similar direct credit substitutes;
(B) For derivatives contracts and for repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, stock lending and borrowing, and similar collateralized transactions, the credit equivalent amount is the sum of the ultimate holding company's maximum potential exposure to the counterparty, as defined in paragraph (a)(3)(i)(E) of this appendix G, multiplied by the appropriate multiplication factor, and the ultimate holding company's current exposure to the counterparty, as defined in paragraph (a)(3)(i)(D) of this appendix G. The ultimate holding company must use the multiplication factor determined according to § 240.15c3-1e(d)(1)(v), except that the initial multiplication factor shall be one, unless the Commission determines, based on a review of the group-wide internal risk management control system and practices, including a review of the VaR models, that another multiplication factor is appropriate;
(C) The credit equivalent amount for other assets shall be the asset's book value on the ultimate holding company's consolidated balance sheet or other amount as determined according to the standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, as amended from time to time;
(D) The
current exposure
is the current replacement value of a counterparty's positions, after applying netting agreements with that counterparty meeting the requirements of § 240.15c3-1e(c)(4)(iv) and taking into account the value of collateral from the counterparty in accordance with § 240.15c3-1e(c)(4)(v);
(E) The
maximum potential exposure
is the VaR of the counterparty's positions with the member of the affiliate group, after applying netting agreements with the counterparty meeting the requirements of paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of § 240.15c3-1e, taking into account the value of collateral from the counterparty held by the member of the affiliate in accordance with paragraph (c)(4)(v) of § 240.15c3-1e, and taking into account the current replacement value of the counterparty's positions with the member of the affiliate group, except that for repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, stock lending and borrowing, and similar collateralized transactions, maximum potential exposure must be calculated using a time horizon of not less than five days;
(F) Credit ratings and credit risk weights shall be determined according to the provisions of paragraphs (c)(4)(vi)(A) and (c)(4)(vi)(B) of § 240.15c3-1e, respectively;
(G) As part of the broker's or dealer's initial application or in an amendment, the ultimate holding company may request Commission approval to reduce allowances for credit risk through the use of credit derivatives;
(H) For the portion of a current exposure covered by a written guarantee,
where that guarantee is an unconditional and irrevocable guarantee of the due and punctual payment and performance of the obligation and the ultimate holding company or member of the affiliate group can demand payment after any payment is missed without having to make collection efforts, the ultimate holding company or member of the affiliate group may substitute the credit risk weight of the guarantor for the credit risk weight of the counterparty; or
(ii) As part of the broker's or dealer's initial application or in an amendment to the application, the ultimate holding company may request Commission approval to use a method of calculating credit risk that is consistent with standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards (July 1988), as amended from time to time; and
(4)
Allowance for operational risk.
The ultimate holding company shall compute an allowance for operational risk in accordance with the standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, as amended from time to time.

# Conditions Regarding Reporting Requirements
(b) File reports with the Commission in accordance with the following:
(1) If it is not an ultimate holding company that has a principal regulator, as that term is defined in § 240.15c3-1(c)(13), the ultimate holding company shall file with the Commission:
(i) A report as of the end of each month, filed not later than 30 calendar days after the end of the month. A monthly report need not be filed for a month-end that coincides with a fiscal quarter-end. The monthly report shall include:
(A) A consolidated balance sheet and income statement (including notes to the financial statements) for the ultimate holding company and statements of allowable capital and allowances for market, credit, and operational risk computed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this appendix G,
except
that the consolidated balance sheet and income statement for the first month of the fiscal year may be filed at a later time to which the Commission agrees (when reviewing the affiliated broker's or dealer's application under § 240.15c3-1e(a)). A statement of comprehensive income (as defined in § 210.1-02 of Regulation S-X of this chapter) shall be included in place of an income statement, if required by the applicable generally accepted accounting principles.
(B) A graph reflecting, for each business line, the daily intra-month VaR;
(C) Consolidated credit risk information, including aggregate current exposure and current exposures (including commitments) listed by counterparty for the 15 largest exposures;
(D) The 10 largest commitments listed by counterparty;
(E) Maximum potential exposure listed by counterparty for the 15 largest exposures;
(F) The aggregate maximum potential exposure;
(G) A summary report reflecting the geographic distribution of the ultimate holding company's exposures on a consolidated basis for each of the top ten countries to which it is exposed (by residence of the main operating group of the counterparty); and
(H) Certain regular risk reports provided to the persons responsible for managing group-wide risk as the Commission may request from time to time;
(ii) A quarterly report as of the end of each fiscal quarter, filed not later than 35 calendar days after the end of the quarter. The quarterly report shall include, in addition to the information contained in the monthly report as required by paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this appendix G, the following:
(A) Consolidating balance sheets and income statements for the ultimate holding company. The consolidating balance sheet must provide information regarding each material affiliate of the ultimate holding company in a separate column, but may aggregate information regarding members of the affiliate group that are not material affiliates into one column. Statements of comprehensive income (as defined in
§ 210.1-02 of Regulation S-X) shall be included in place of an income statement, if required by the applicable generally accepted accounting principles;
(B) The results of backtesting of all internal models used to compute allowable capital and allowances for market and credit risk indicating, for each model, the number of backtesting exceptions;
(C) A description of all material pending legal or arbitration proceedings, involving either the ultimate holding company or any of its affiliates, that are required to be disclosed by the ultimate holding company under generally accepted accounting principles;
(D) The aggregate amount of unsecured borrowings and lines of credit, segregated into categories, scheduled to mature within twelve months from the most recent fiscal quarter as to each material affiliate; and
(E) For a quarter-end that coincides with the ultimate holding company's fiscal year-end, the ultimate holding company need not include consolidated and consolidating balance sheets and income statements (or statements of comprehensive income, as applicable) in its quarterly reports. The consolidating balance sheet and income statement (or statement of comprehensive income, as applicable) for the quarter-end that coincides with the fiscal year-end may be filed at a later time to which the Commission agrees (when reviewing the affiliated broker's or dealer's application under § 240.15c3-1e(a));
(iii) An annual audited report as of the end of the ultimate holding company's fiscal year, filed not later than 65 calendar days after the end of the fiscal year. The annual report shall include:
(A) Consolidated financial statements for the ultimate holding company audited by a registered public accounting firm, as that term is defined in section 2(a)(12) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (15 U.S.C. 7201
et seq.
). The audit shall be made in accordance with the rules promulgated by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. The audited financial statements must include a supporting schedule containing statements of allowable capital and allowances for market, credit, and operational risk computed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this appendix G; and
(B) A supplemental report entitled “Accountant's Report on Internal Risk Management Control System” prepared by a registered public accounting firm, as that term is defined in section 2(a)(12) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (15 U.S.C. 7201
et seq.
), indicating the results of the registered public accounting firm's review of the ultimate holding company's compliance with § 240.15c3-4. The procedures are to be performed and the report is to be prepared in accordance with procedures agreed upon by the ultimate holding company and the registered public accounting firm conducting the review. The agreed-upon procedures are to be performed and the report is to be prepared in accordance with rules promulgated by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. The ultimate holding company must file, before commencement of the initial review, the procedures agreed upon by the ultimate holding company and the registered public accounting firm with the Division of Market Regulation, Office of Financial Responsibility, at Commission's principal office in Washington, DC. Before commencement of each subsequent review, the ultimate holding company must notify the Commission of any changes in the procedures;
(iv) An organizational chart, as of the ultimate holding company's fiscal year-end, concurrently with its quarterly report for the quarter-end that coincides with its fiscal year-end. The ultimate holding company must provide quarterly updates of the organizational chart if a material change in the information provided to the Commission has occurred;
(2) If the ultimate holding company is an entity that has a principal regulator, as that term is defined in § 240.15c3-1(c)(13), the ultimate holding company must file with the Commission:
(i) A quarterly report as of the end of each fiscal quarter, filed not later than 35 calendar days after the end of the quarter, or a later time to which the
Commission may agree upon application. The quarterly report shall include:
(A) Consolidated (including notes to the financial statements) and consolidating balance sheets and income statements for the ultimate holding company. Statements of comprehensive income (as defined in § 210.1-02 of Regulation S-X) shall be included in place of income statements, if required by the applicable generally accepted accounting principles;
(B) Its most recent capital measurements computed in accordance with the standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, as amended from time to time, as reported to its principal regulator;
(C) Certain regular risk reports provided to the persons responsible for managing group-wide risk as the Commission may request from time to time; and
(D) For a quarter-end that coincides with the ultimate holding company's fiscal year-end, the ultimate holding company need not include consolidated and consolidating balance sheets and income statements (or statements of comprehensive income, as applicable) in its quarterly reports. The consolidating balance sheet and income statement (or statement of comprehensive income, as applicable) for the quarter-end that coincides with the fiscal year-end may be filed at a later time to which the Commission agrees (when reviewing the affiliated broker's or dealer's application under § 240.15c3-1e(a)).
(ii) An annual audited report as of the end of the ultimate holding company's fiscal year, filed with the Commission when required to be filed by any regulator;
(3) The reports that the ultimate holding company must file in accordance with paragraph (b) of this appendix G will be considered filed when two copies are received at the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC. A person who files reports pursuant to this section for which he or she seeks confidential treatment may clearly mark each page or segregable portion of each page with the words “Confidential Treatment Requested.” The copies shall be addressed to the Division of Market Regulation, Risk Assessment Group; and
(4) The reports that the ultimate holding company must file with the Commission in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Appendix G will be accorded confidential treatment to the extent permitted by law.

# Conditions Regarding Records To Be Made
(c) If it is not an ultimate holding company that has a principal regulator, make and keep current the following records:
(1) A record of the results of funding and liquidity stress tests that the ultimate holding company has conducted in response to the following events at least once each quarter and a record of the contingency plan to respond to each of these events:
(i) A credit rating downgrade of the ultimate holding company;
(ii) An inability of the ultimate holding company to access capital markets for unsecured short-term funding;
(iii) An inability of the ultimate holding company to access liquid assets in regulated entities across international borders when the events described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) or (ii) of this appendix G occur; and
(iv) An inability of the ultimate holding company to access credit or assets held at a particular institution when the events described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) or (ii) of this appendix G occur;
(2) A record of the basis for the determination of credit risk weights for each counterparty;
(3) A record of the basis for the determination of internal credit ratings for each counterparty; and
(4) A record of the calculations of allowable capital and allowances for market, credit and operational risk computed currently at least once per month on a consolidated basis.

# Conditions Regarding Preservation of Records
(d)(1) Must preserve the following information, documents, and reports for a period of not less than three years in an easily accessible place using any media acceptable under § 240.17a-4(f):
(i) The documents created in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Appendix G;
(ii) Any application or documents filed with the Commission pursuant to § 240.15c3-1e and this appendix G and any written responses received from the Commission;
(iii) All reports and notices filed with the Commission pursuant to § 240.15c3-1e and this appendix G; and
(iv) If the ultimate holding company does not have a principal regulator, all written policies and procedures concerning the group-wide internal risk management control system established pursuant to § 240.15c3-1e(a)(1)(viii)(C); and
(2) The ultimate holding company may maintain the records referred to in paragraph (d)(1) of this appendix G either at the ultimate holding company, at an affiliate, or at a records storage facility, provided that the records are located within the United States. If the records are maintained by an entity other than the ultimate holding company, the ultimate holding company shall obtain and file with the Commission a written undertaking by the entity maintaining the records, in a form acceptable to the Commission, signed by a duly authorized person at the entity maintaining the records, to the effect that the records will be treated as if the ultimate holding company were maintaining the records pursuant to this section and that the entity maintaining the records will permit examination of such records at any time or from time to time during business hours by representatives or designees of the Commission and will promptly furnish the Commission or its designee a true, legible, complete, and current paper copy of any or all or any part of such records. The election to operate pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph shall not relieve the ultimate holding company that is required to maintain and preserve such records from any of its reporting or recordkeeping responsibilities under this section.

# Conditions Regarding Notification
(e) The ultimate holding company of a broker or dealer that computes certain of its capital charges in accordance with § 240.15c3-1e shall:
(1) Send notice promptly (but within 24 hours) after the occurrence of the following events:
(i) The early warning indications of low capital as the Commission may agree;
(ii) The ultimate holding company files a Form 8-K (17 CFR 249.308) with the Commission; and
(iii) A material affiliate declares bankruptcy or otherwise becomes insolvent; and
(2) If it is not an ultimate holding company that has a principal regulator, as defined in § 240.15c3-1(c)(13), send notice promptly (but within 24 hours) after the occurrence of the following events:
(i) The ultimate holding company becomes aware that an NRSRO has determined to reduce materially its assessment of the creditworthiness of a material affiliate or the credit rating(s) assigned to one or more outstanding short or long-term obligations of a material affiliate;
(ii) The ultimate holding company becomes aware that any financial regulatory agency or self-regulatory organization has taken significant enforcement or regulatory action against a material affiliate; and
(iii) The occurrence of any backtesting exception under § 240.15c3-1e(d)(1)(iii) or (iv) that would require that the ultimate holding company use a higher multiplication factor in the calculation of its allowances for market or credit risk;
(3) Every notice given or transmitted by paragraph (e) of this appendix G will be given or transmitted to the Division of Market Regulation, Office of Financial Responsibility, at the principal office of the Commission in Washington, DC. A person who files notification pursuant to this section for which he or she seeks confidential treatment may clearly mark each page or segregable portion of each page with the words “Confidential Treatment Request.” For the purposes of this appendix G, “notice” shall be given or transmitted by telegraphic notice or facsimile transmission. The notice described by paragraph (e)(2) of this appendix G may be transmitted by overnight delivery.
Notices filed pursuant to this paragraph will be accorded confidential treatment to the extent permitted by law; and
(4) Upon the written request of the ultimate holding company, or upon its own motion, the Commission may grant an extension of time or an exemption from any of the requirements of this paragraph (e) either unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions as are necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
[69 FR 34467, June 21, 2004, as amended at 79 FR 1550, Jan. 8, 2014; 83 FR 50222, Oct. 4, 2018; 90 FR 2836, Jan. 13, 2025]
§ 240.15c3-2
[Reserved]
§ 240.15c3-3
Customer protection—reserves and custody of securities.
Except where otherwise noted, § 240.15c3-3 applies to a broker or dealer registered under section 15(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)), including a broker or dealer also registered as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant under section 15F(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)). A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant registered under section 15F(b) of the Act that is not also registered as a broker or dealer under section 15(b) of the Act is subject to the requirements under § 240.18a-4.
(a)
Definitions.
For the purpose of this section:
(1) The term
customer
shall mean any person from whom or on whose behalf a broker or dealer has received or acquired or holds funds or securities for the account of that person. The term shall not include a broker or dealer, a municipal securities dealer, or a government securities broker or government securities dealer. The term shall, however, include another broker or dealer to the extent that broker or dealer maintains an omnibus account for the account of customers with the broker or dealer in compliance with Regulation T (12 CFR 220.1 through 220.12). The term shall not include a general partner or director or principal officer of the broker or dealer or any other person to the extent that person has a claim for property or funds which by contract, agreement or understanding, or by operation of law, is part of the capital of the broker or dealer or is subordinated to the claims of creditors of the broker or dealer. In addition, the term shall not include a person to the extent that the person has a claim for security futures products held in a futures account, or any security futures product and any futures product held in a “proprietary account” as defined by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission in § 1.3(y) of this chapter. The term also shall not include a counterparty who has delivered collateral to an OTC derivatives dealer pursuant to a transaction in an eligible OTC derivative instrument, or pursuant to the OTC derivatives dealer's cash management securities activities or ancillary portfolio management securities activities, and who has received a prominent written notice from the OTC derivatives dealer that:
(i) Except as otherwise agreed in writing by the OTC derivatives dealer and the counterparty, the dealer may repledge or otherwise use the collateral in its business;
(ii) In the event of the OTC derivatives dealer's failure, the counterparty will likely be considered an unsecured creditor of the dealer as to that collateral;
(iii) The Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 (SIPA) does not protect the counterparty; and
(iv) The collateral will not be subject to the requirements of § 240.8c-1, § 240.15c2-1, § 240.15c3-2, or § 240.15c3-3.
(2) The term
securities carried for the account of a customer
(hereinafter also “customer securities”) shall mean:
(i) Securities received by or on behalf of a broker or dealer for the account of any customer and securities carried long by a broker or dealer for the account of any customer; and
(ii) Securities sold to, or bought for, a customer by a broker or dealer.
(3) The term
fully paid securities
means all securities carried for the account of a customer in a cash account as defined in Regulation T (12 CFR 220.1
et seq.
), as well as securities carried for the account of a customer in a margin account or any special account under Regulation T that have no loan
value for margin purposes, and all margin equity securities in such accounts if they are fully paid:
Provided, however,
that the term
fully paid securities
does not apply to any securities purchased in transactions for which the customer has not made full payment.
(4) The term
margin securities
means those securities carried for the account of a customer in a margin account as defined in section 4 of Regulation T (12 CFR 220.4), as well as securities carried in any other account (such accounts hereinafter referred to as “margin accounts”) other than the securities referred to in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(5) The term
excess margin securities
shall mean those securities referred to in paragraph (a)(4) of this section carried for the account of a customer having a market value in excess of 140 percent of the total of the debit balances in the customer's account or accounts encompassed by paragraph (a)(4) of this section which the broker or dealer identifies as not constituting margin securities.
(6) The term
qualified security
shall mean a security issued by the United States or a security in respect of which the principal and interest are guaranteed by the United States.
(7) The term
bank
means a bank as defined in section 3(a)(6) of the Act and will also mean any building and loan, savings and loan or similar banking institution subject to supervision by a Federal banking authority. With respect to a broker or dealer that maintains its principal place of business in Canada, the term “bank” also means a Canadian bank subject to supervision by a Canadian authority.
(8) The term
free credit balances
means liabilities of a broker or dealer to customers which are subject to immediate cash payment to customers on demand, whether resulting from sales of securities, dividends, interest, deposits or otherwise, excluding, however, funds in commodity accounts which are segregated in accordance with the Commodity Exchange Act or in a similar manner, or which are funds carried in a proprietary account as that term is defined in regulations under the Commodity Exchange Act. The term “free credit balances” also includes, if subject to immediate cash payment to customers on demand, funds carried in a securities account pursuant to a self-regulatory organization portfolio margining rule approved by the Commission under section 19(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)) (“SRO portfolio margining rule”), including variation margin or initial margin, marks to market, and proceeds resulting from margin paid or released in connection with closing out, settling or exercising futures contracts and options thereon.
(9) The term
other credit balances
means cash liabilities of a broker or dealer to customers other than free credit balances and funds in commodity accounts which are segregated in accordance with the Commodity Exchange Act or in a similar manner, or funds carried in a proprietary account as that term is defined in regulations under the Commodity Exchange Act. The term “other credit balances” also includes funds that are cash liabilities of a broker or dealer to customers other than free credit balances and are carried in a securities account pursuant to an SRO portfolio margining rule, including variation margin or initial margin, marks to market, and proceeds resulting from margin paid or released in connection with closing out, settling or exercising futures contracts and options thereon.
(10) The term
funds carried for the account of any customer
(hereinafter also “customer funds”) shall mean all free credit and other credit balances carried for the account of the customer.
(11) The term
principal officer
shall mean the president, executive vice president, treasurer, secretary or any other person performing a similar function with the broker or dealer.
(12) The term
household members and other persons related to principals
includes husbands or wives, children, sons-in-law or daughters-in-law and any household relative to whose support a principal contributes directly or indirectly. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(12), a principal shall be deemed to be a director, general partner, or principal officer of the broker or dealer.
(13) The term
affiliated person
includes any person who directly or indirectly controls a broker or dealer or
any person who is directly or indirectly controlled by or under common control with the broker or dealer. Ownership of 10% or more of the common stock of the relevant entity will be deemed prima facie control of that entity for purposes of this paragraph.
(14) The term
securities account
shall mean an account that is maintained in accordance with the requirements of section 15(c)(3) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
(c)(3)) and § 240.15c3-3.
(15) The term
futures account
(also referred to as “commodity account”) shall mean an account that is maintained in accordance with the segregation requirements of section 4d of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6d) and the rules thereunder.
(16) The term
PAB account
means a proprietary securities account of a broker or dealer (which includes a foreign broker or dealer, or a foreign bank acting as a broker or dealer) other than a delivery-versus-payment account or a receipt-versus-payment account. The term does not include an account that has been subordinated to the claims of creditors of the carrying broker or dealer.
(17) The term
Sweep Program
means a service provided by a broker or dealer where it offers to its customer the option to automatically transfer free credit balances in the securities account of the customer to either a money market mutual fund product as described in § 270.2a-7 of this chapter or an account at a bank whose deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
(b)
Physical possession or control of securities.
(1) A broker or dealer shall promptly obtain and shall thereafter maintain the physical possession or control of all fully-paid securities and excess margin securities carried by a broker or dealer for the account of customers.
(2) A broker or dealer shall not be deemed to be in violation of the provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section regarding physical possession or control of customers' securities if, solely as the result of normal business operations, temporary lags occur between the time when a security is required to be in the possession or control of the broker or dealer and the time that it is placed in the broker's or dealer's physical possession or under its control, provided that the broker or dealer takes timely steps in good faith to establish prompt physical possession or control. The burden of proof shall be on the broker or dealer to establish that the failure to obtain physical possession or control of securities carried for the account of customers as required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section is merely temporary and solely the result of normal business operations including same day receipt and redelivery (turnaround), and to establish that it has taken timely steps in good faith to place them in its physical possession or control.
(3) A broker or dealer shall not be deemed to be in violation of the provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section regarding physical possession or control of fully-paid or excess margin securities borrowed from any person, provided that the broker or dealer and the lender, at or before the time of the loan, enter into a written agreement that, at a minimum;
(i) Sets forth in a separate schedule or schedules the basis of compensation for any loan and generally the rights and liabilities of the parties as to the borrowed securities;
(ii) Provides that the lender will be given a schedule of the securities actually borrowed at the time of the borrowing of the securities;
(iii) Specifies that the broker or dealer:
(A) Must provide to the lender, upon the execution of the agreement or by the close of the business day of the loan if the loan occurs subsequent to the execution of the agreement, collateral, which fully secures the loan of securities, consisting exclusively of cash or United States Treasury bills and Treasury notes or an irrevocable letter of credit issued by a bank as defined in section 3(a)(6)(A)-(C) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(6)(A)-(C)) or such other collateral as the Commission designates as permissible by order as necessary or appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors after giving consideration to the collateral's liquidity, volatility, market depth and location, and the issuer's creditworthiness; and
(B) Must mark the loan to the market not less than daily and, in the event that the market value of all the outstanding securities loaned at the close of trading at the end of the business day exceeds 100 percent of the collateral then held by the lender, the borrowing broker or dealer must provide additional collateral of the type described in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(A) of this section to the lender by the close of the next business day as necessary to equal, together with the collateral then held by the lender, not less than 100 percent of the market value of the securities loaned; and
(iv) Contains a prominent notice that the provisions of the SIPA may not protect the lender with respect to the securities loan transaction and that, therefore, the collateral delivered to the lender may constitute the only source of satisfaction of the broker's or dealer's obligation in the event the broker or dealer fails to return the securities.
(4)(i) Notwithstanding paragraph (k)(2)(i) of this section, a broker or dealer that retains custody of securities that are the subject of a repurchase agreement between the broker or dealer and a counterparty shall:
(A) Obtain the repurchase agreement in writing;
(B) Confirm in writing the specific securities that are the subject of a repurchase transaction pursuant to such agreement at the end of the trading day on which the transaction is initiated and at the end of any other day during which other securities are substituted if the substitution results in a change to issuer, maturity date, par amount or coupon rate as specified in the previous confirmation;
(C) Advise the counterparty in the repurchase agreement that the Securities Investor Protection Corporation has taken the position that the provisions of the SIPA do not protect the counterparty with respect to the repurchase agreement; and
(D) Maintain possession or control of securities that are the subject of the agreement.
(ii) For purpose of this paragraph (b)(4), securities are in the broker's or dealer's control only if they are in the control of the broker or dealer within the meaning of § 240.15c3-3 (c)(1), (c)(3), (c)(5) or (c)(6) of this title.
(iii) A broker or dealer shall not be in violation of the requirement to maintain possession or control pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(i)(D) during the trading day if:
(A) In the written repurchase agreement, the counterparty grants the broker or dealer the right to substitute other securities for those subject to the agreement; and
(B) The provision in the written repurchase agreement governing the right, if any, to substitute is immediately preceded by the following disclosure statement, which must be prominently displayed:

# Required Disclosure
The [seller] is not permitted to substitute other securities for those subject to this agreement and therefore must keep the [buyer's] securities segregated at all times, unless in this agreement the [buyer] grants the [seller] the right to substitute other securities. If the [buyer] grants the right to substitute, this means that the [buyer's] securities will likely be commingled with the [seller's] own securities during the trading day. The [buyer] is advised that, during any trading day that the [buyer's] securities are commingled with the [seller's] securities, they will be subject to liens granted by the [seller] to its clearing bank and may be used by the [seller] for deliveries on other securities transactions. Whenever the securities are commingled, the [seller's] ability to resegregate substitute securities for the [buyer] will be subject to the [seller's] ability to satisfy the clearing lien or to obtain substitute securities.
(iv) A confirmation issued in accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(i)(B) of this section shall specify the issuer, maturity date, coupon rate, par amount and market value of the security and shall further identify a CUSIP or mortgage-backed security pool number, as appropriate, except that a CUSIP or a pool number is not required on the confirmation if it is identified in internal records of the broker or dealer that designate the specific security of the counterparty. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(4)(iv), the market value of any security that is the subject of the repurchase transaction shall be the most recently available bid price plus accrued interest, obtained by any reasonable and consistent methodology.
(v) This paragraph (b)(4) shall not apply to a repurchase agreement between the broker or dealer and another broker or dealer (including a government securities broker or dealer), a registered municipal securities dealer, or a general partner or director or principal officer of the broker or dealer or any person to the extent that the person's claim is explicitly subordinated to the claims of creditors of the broker or dealer.
(5) A broker or dealer is required to obtain and thereafter maintain the physical possession or control of securities carried for a PAB account, unless the broker or dealer has provided written notice to the account holder that the securities may be used in the ordinary course of its securities business, and has provided an opportunity for the account holder to object.
(c)
Control of securities.
Securities under the control of a broker or dealer shall be deemed to be securities which:
(1) Are represented by one or more certificates in the custody or control of a clearing corporation or other subsidiary organization of either national securities exchanges or of a registered national securities association, or of a custodian bank in accordance with a system for the central handling of securities complying with the provisions of §§ 240.8c-1(g) and 240.15c2-1(g) the delivery of which certificates to the broker or dealer does not require the payment of money or value, and if the books or records of the broker or dealer identify the customers entitled to receive specified quantities or units of the securities so held for such customers collectively; or
(2) Are carried for the account of any customer by a broker or dealer and are carried in an omnibus credit account in the name of such broker or dealer with another broker or dealer in compliance with the requirements of section 7(f) of Regulation T (12 CFR 220.7(f)), such securities being deemed to be under the control of such broker or dealer to the extent that it has instructed such carrying broker or dealer to maintain physical possession or control of them free of any charge, lien, or claim of any kind in favor of such carrying broker or dealer or any persons claiming through such carrying broker or dealer; or
(3) Are the subject of bona fide items of transfer; provided that securities shall be deemed not to be the subject of bona fide items of transfer if, within 40 calendar days after they have been transmitted for transfer by the broker or dealer to the issuer or its transfer agent, new certificates conforming to the instructions of the broker or dealer have not been received by the broker or deal, the broker or dealer has not received a written statement by the issuer or its transfer agent acknowledging the transfer instructions and the possession of the securities or the broker or dealer has not obtained a revalidation of a window ticket from a transfer agent with respect to the certificate delivered for transfer; or
(4) Are in the custody of a foreign depository, foreign clearing agency or foreign custodian bank which the Commission upon application from a broker or dealer, a registered national securities exchange or a registered national securities association, or upon its own motion shall designate as a satisfactory control location for securities; or
(5) Are in the custody or control of a bank as defined in section 3(a)(6) of the Act, the delivery of which securities to the broker or dealer does not require the payment of money or value and the bank having acknowledged in writing that the securities in its custody or control are not subject to any right, charge, security interest, lien or claim of any kind in favor of a bank or any person claiming through the bank; or
(6)(i) Are held in or are in transit between offices of the broker or dealer; or (ii) are held by a corporate subsidiary if the broker or dealer owns and exercises a majority of the voting rights of all of the voting securities of such subsidiary, assumes or guarantees all of the subsidiary's obligations and liabilities, operates the subsidiary as a branch office of the broker or dealer, and assumes full responsibility for compliance by the subsidiary and all of its associated persons with the provisions of the Federal securities laws as well as for all of the other acts of the subsidiary and such associated persons; or
(7) Are held in such other locations as the Commission shall upon application from a broker or dealer find and designate to be adequate for the protection of customer securities.
(d)
Requirement to reduce securities to possession or control.
Not later than the next business day, a broker or dealer, as of the close of the preceding business day, shall determine from its books or records the quantity of fully paid securities and excess margin securities in its possession or control and the quantity of fully paid securities and excess margin securities not in its possession or control. In making this daily determination inactive margin accounts (accounts having no activity by reason of purchase or sale of securities, receipt or delivery of cash or securities or similar type events) may be computed not less than once weekly. If such books or records indicate, as of such close of the business day, that such broker or dealer has not obtained physical possession or control of all fully paid and excess margin securities as required by this section and there are securities of the same issue and class in any of the following noncontrol locations:
(1) Securities subject to a lien securing moneys borrowed by the broker or dealer or securities loaned to another broker or dealer or a clearing corporation, then the broker or dealer shall, not later than the business day following the day on which such determination is made, issue instructions for the release of such securities from the lien or return of such loaned securities and shall obtain physical possession or control of such securities within two business days following the date of issuance of the instructions in the case of securities subject to lien securing borrowed moneys and within five business days following the date of issuance of instructions in the case of securities loaned; or
(2) Securities included on the broker's or dealer's books or records as failed to receive more than 30 calendar days, then the broker or dealer shall, not later than the business day following the day on which such determination is made, take prompt steps to obtain physical possession or control of securities so failed to receive through a buy-in procedure or otherwise; or
(3) Securities receivable by the broker or dealer as a security dividend receivable, stock split or similar distribution for more than 45 calendar days, then the broker or dealer shall, not later than the business day following the day on which such determination is made, take prompt steps to obtain physical possession or control of securities so receivable through a buy-in procedure or otherwise; or
(4) Securities included on the broker's or dealer's books or records that allocate to a short position of the broker or dealer or a short position for another person, excluding positions covered by paragraph (m) of this section, for more than 30 calendar days, then the broker or dealer must, not later than the business day following the day on which the determination is made, take prompt steps to obtain physical possession or control of such securities. For the purposes of this paragraph (d)(4), the 30 day time period will not begin to run with respect to a syndicate short position established in connection with an offering of securities until the completion of the underwriter's participation in the distribution as determined pursuant to § 242.100(b) of Regulation M of this chapter (17 CFR 242.100 through 242.105); or
(5) A broker or dealer which is subject to the requirements of § 240.15c3-3 with respect to physical possession or control of fully paid and excess margin securities shall prepare and maintain a current and detailed description of the procedures which it utilizes to comply with the possession or control requirements set forth in this section. The records required herein shall be made available upon request to the Commission and to the designated examining authority for such broker or dealer.
(e)
Special reserve bank accounts for the exclusive benefit of customers and PAB accounts.
(1) Every broker or dealer must maintain with a bank or banks at all times when deposits are required or hereinafter specified a “Special Reserve Bank Account for the Exclusive Benefit of Customers” (hereinafter referred to as the
Customer Reserve Bank Account
) and a “Special Reserve Bank
Account for Brokers and Dealers” (hereinafter referred to as the
PAB Reserve Bank Account
), each of which will be separate from the other and from any other bank account of the broker or dealer. Such broker or dealer must at all times maintain in the Customer Reserve Bank Account and the PAB Reserve Bank Account, through deposits made therein, cash and/or qualified securities in amounts computed in accordance with the formula attached as Exhibit A (17 CFR 240.15c3-3a), as applied to customer and PAB accounts respectively.
(2) With respect to each computation required pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section, a broker or dealer must not accept or use any of the amounts under items comprising Total Credits under the formula referred to in paragraph (e)(1) of this section except for the specified purposes indicated under items comprising Total Debits under the formula, and, to the extent Total Credits exceed Total Debits, at least the net amount thereof must be maintained in the Customer Reserve Bank Account and PAB Reserve Bank Account pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(3)
Reserve Bank Account computations.
(i)(A) Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(3)(i)(B)(
1
) and (C) of this section, computations necessary to determine the amount required to be deposited in the Customer Reserve Bank Account and PAB Reserve Bank Account as specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section must be made weekly, as of the close of the last business day of the week, and the deposit so computed must be made no later than one hour after the opening of banking business on the second following business day.
(B)(
1
) A broker or dealer with average total credits that are equal to or greater than $500 million must make the computations necessary to determine the amount required to be deposited in the Customer Reserve Bank Account and PAB Reserve Bank Account, as specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, daily as of the close of the previous business day, and the deposit so computed must be made no later than one hour after the opening of banking business on the second following business day. A broker or dealer must comply with this paragraph (e)(3)(i)(B)(
1
) no later than six months after having average total credits equal to or greater than $500 million and until such time as it has average total credits of less than $500 million and 60 days after having provided the 60-day notice required by paragraph (e)(3)(i)(B)(
2
) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(3),
average total credits
means the arithmetic mean of the sum of Total Credits in the Customer Reserve Bank Account computation and the PAB Reserve Bank Account computation reported in the 12 most recently filed month-end Forms X-17A-5.
(
2
) A broker or dealer computing the Customer Reserve Bank Account computation and the PAB Reserve Bank Account computation daily under paragraph (e)(3)(i)(B)(
1
) of this section whose average total credits falls below $500 million may elect to compute the Customer Reserve Bank Account and the PAB Reserve Bank Account computation weekly under paragraph (e)(3)(i)(A) of this section. Such broker or dealer must notify its designated examining authority, in writing, of this election at least 60 calendar days before computing the Customer Reserve Bank Account and the PAB Reserve Bank Account computation weekly under paragraph (e)(3)(i)(A) of this section.
(C) A broker or dealer which has aggregate indebtedness not exceeding 800% of net capital (as defined in § 240.15c3-1) and which carries aggregate customer funds (as defined in paragraph (a)(10) of this section), as computed at the last required computation pursuant to this section, not exceeding $1,000,000, may in the alternative make the Customer Reserve Bank Account computation monthly, as of the close of the last business day of the month, and, in such event, must deposit not less than 105% of the amount so computed no later than one hour after the opening of banking business on the second following business day.
(ii) If a broker or dealer, computing on a monthly basis, has, at the time of any required computation, aggregate indebtedness in excess of 800 percent of net capital, such broker or dealer must
thereafter compute weekly as aforesaid until four successive weekly Customer Reserve Bank Account computations are made, none of which were made at a time when its aggregate indebtedness exceeded 800 percent of its net capital.
(iii) A broker or dealer that does not carry the accounts of a “customer” as defined by this section or conduct a proprietary trading business may make the computation to be performed with respect to PAB accounts under paragraph (e)(1) of this section monthly rather than weekly. If a broker or dealer performing the computation with respect to PAB accounts under paragraph (e)(1) of this section on a monthly basis is, at the time of any required computation, required to deposit additional cash or qualified securities in the PAB Reserve Bank Account, the broker or dealer must thereafter perform the computation required with respect to PAB accounts under paragraph (e)(1) of this section weekly until four successive weekly computations are made, none of which is made at a time when the broker or dealer was required to deposit additional cash or qualified securities in the PAB Reserve Bank Account.
(iv) Computations in addition to the computations required in this paragraph (e)(3), other than computations made under paragraph (e)(3)(i)(B)(
1
) of this section, may be made as of the close of any business day, and the deposits so computed must be made no later than one hour after the opening of banking business on the second following business day.
(v) A broker or dealer may elect to voluntarily compute the Customer Reserve Bank Account computation daily under paragraph (e)(3)(iv) of this section and reduce aggregate debit items in such computation by 2% under § 240.15c3-1(a)(ii)(A). Such broker or dealer must notify its designated examining authority, in writing, of its election to operate under this paragraph (e)(3)(v) at least 30 calendar days before beginning such computation. If a broker or dealer has notified the broker or dealer's designated examining authority of its election to operate under this paragraph (e)(3)(v), the broker or dealer must continue to compute the Customer Reserve Bank Account computation daily unless a change is approved by its designated examining authority.
(vi) The broker or dealer must make and maintain a record of each such computation made pursuant to this paragraph (e)(3) or otherwise and preserve each such record in accordance with § 240.17a-4.
(4) If the computation performed under paragraph (e)(3) of this section with respect to PAB accounts results in a deposit requirement, the requirement may be satisfied to the extent of any excess debit in the computation performed under paragraph (e)(3) of this section with respect to customer accounts of the same date. However, a deposit requirement resulting from the computation performed under paragraph (e)(3) of this section with respect to customer accounts cannot be satisfied with excess debits from the computation performed under paragraph (e)(3) of this section with respect to PAB accounts.
(5) In determining whether a broker or dealer maintains the minimum deposits required under this section, the broker or dealer must exclude the total amount of any cash deposited with an affiliated bank. The broker or dealer also must exclude cash deposited with a non-affiliated bank to the extent that the amount of the deposit exceeds 15% of the bank's equity capital as reported by the bank in its most recent Call Report or any successor form the bank is required to file by its appropriate Federal banking agency (as defined by section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813)).
(f)
Notification of banks.
A broker or dealer required to maintain a Customer Reserve Bank Account and PAB Reserve Bank Account prescribed by paragraph (e)(1) of this section or who maintains a Special Account referred to in paragraph (k) of this section must obtain and preserve in accordance with § 240.17a-4 a written notification from each bank with which it maintains a Customer Reserve Bank Account, a PAB Reserve Bank Account, or a Special Account that the bank was informed that all cash and/or qualified securities deposited therein are being
held by the bank for the exclusive benefit of the customers and account holders of the broker or dealer in accordance with the regulations of the Commission, and are being kept separate from any other accounts maintained by the broker or dealer with the bank, and the broker or dealer must have a written contract with the bank which provides that the cash and/or qualified securities will at no time be used directly or indirectly as security for a loan to the broker or dealer by the bank and will not be subject to any right, charge, security interest, lien, or claim of any kind in favor of the bank or any person claiming through the bank.
(g)
Withdrawals from the reserve bank account.
A broker or dealer may make withdrawals from a Customer Reserve Bank Account and a PAB Reserve Bank Account if and to the extent that at the time of the withdrawal the amount remaining in the Customer Reserve Bank Account and PAB Reserve Bank Account is not less than the amount then required by paragraph (e) of this section. A bank may presume that any request for withdrawal from a reserve bank account is in conformity and compliance with this paragraph (g). On any business day on which a withdrawal is made, the broker or dealer shall make a record of the computation on the basis of which he makes such withdrawal, and he shall preserve such computation in accordance with § 240.17a-4.
(h)
Buy-in of short security differences.
A broker or dealer shall within 45 calendar days after the date of the examination, count, verification and comparison of securities pursuant to § 240.17a-13 or otherwise or to the annual report of financial condition in accordance with § 240.17a-5 or 240.17a-12, buy-in all short security differences which are not resolved during the 45-day period.
(i)
Notification in the event of failure to make a required deposit.
If a broker or dealer shall fail to make in its Customer Reserve Bank Account, PAB Reserve Bank Account or special account a deposit, as required by this section, the broker or dealer shall by telegram immediately notify the Commission and the regulatory authority for the broker or dealer, which examines such broker or dealer as to financial responsibility and shall promptly thereafter confirm such notification in writing.
(j)
Treatment of free credit balances.
(1) A broker or dealer must not accept or use any free credit balance carried for the account of any customer of the broker or dealer unless such broker or dealer has established adequate procedures pursuant to which each customer for whom a free credit balance is carried will be given or sent, together with or as part of the customer's statement of account, whenever sent but not less frequently than once every three months, a written statement informing the customer of the amount due to the customer by the broker or dealer on the date of the statement, and that the funds are payable on demand of the customer.
(2) A broker or dealer must not convert, invest, or transfer to another account or institution, credit balances held in a customer's account except as provided in paragraphs (j)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) A broker or dealer is permitted to invest or transfer to another account or institution, free credit balances in a customer's account only upon a specific order, authorization, or draft from the customer, and only in the manner, and under the terms and conditions, specified in the order, authorization, or draft.
(ii) A broker or dealer is permitted to transfer free credit balances held in a customer's securities account to a product in its Sweep Program or to transfer a customer's interest in one product in a Sweep Program to another product in a Sweep Program,
provided:
(A) For an account opened on or after the effective date of this paragraph (j)(2)(ii), the customer gives prior written affirmative consent to having free credit balances in the customer's securities account included in the Sweep Program after being notified:
(
1
) Of the general terms and conditions of the products available through the Sweep Program; and
(
2
) That the broker or dealer may change the products available under the Sweep Program.
(B) For any account:
(
1
) The broker or dealer provides the customer with the disclosures and notices regarding the Sweep Program required by each self-regulatory organization of which the broker or dealer is a member;
(
2
) The broker or dealer provides notice to the customer, as part of the customer's quarterly statement of account, that the balance in the bank deposit account or shares of the money market mutual fund in which the customer has a beneficial interest can be liquidated on the customer's order and the proceeds returned to the securities account or remitted to the customer; and
(
3
)(
i
) The broker or dealer provides the customer with written notice at least 30 calendar days before:
(
A
) Making changes to the terms and conditions of the Sweep Program;
(
B
) Making changes to the terms and conditions of a product currently available through the Sweep Program;
(
C
) Changing, adding or deleting products available through the Sweep Program; or
(
D
) Changing the customer's investment through the Sweep Program from one product to another.
(
ii
) The notice must describe the new terms and conditions of the Sweep Program or product or the new product, and the options available to the customer if the customer does not accept the new terms and conditions or product.
(k)
Exemptions.
(1) The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to a broker or dealer meeting all of the following conditions:
(i) The broker's or dealer's transactions as dealer (as principal for its own account) are limited to the purchase, sale, and redemption of redeemable securities of registered investment companies or of interests or participations in an insurance company separate account, whether or not registered as an investment company; except that a broker or dealer transacting business as a sole proprietor may also effect occasional transactions in other securities for its own account with or through another registered broker or dealer;
(ii) The broker's or dealer's transactions as broker (agent) are limited to:
(
a
) The sale and redemption of redeemable securities of registered investment companies or of interests or participations in an insurance company separate account, whether or not registered as an investment company;
(
b
) the solicitation of share accounts for savings and loan associations insured by an instrumentality of the United States; and
(
c
) the sale of securities for the account of a customer to obtain funds for immediate reinvestment in redeemable securities of registered investment companies; and
(iii) The broker or dealer promptly transmits all funds and delivers all securities received in connection with its activities as a broker or dealer, and does not otherwise hold funds or securities for, or owe money or securities to, customers.
(iv) Notwithstanding the foregoing, this section shall not apply to any insurance company which is a registered broker-dealer, and which otherwise meets all of the conditions in paragraphs (k)(1) (i), (ii), and (iii) of this section, solely by reason of its participation in transactions that are a part of the business of insurance, including the purchasing, selling, or holding of securities for or on behalf of such company's general and separate accounts.
(2) The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to a broker or dealer:
(i) Who carries no margin accounts, promptly transmits all customer funds and delivers all securities received in connection with its activities as a broker or dealer, does not otherwise hold funds or securities for, or owe money or securities to, customers and effectuates all financial transactions between the broker or dealer and its customers through one or more bank accounts, each to be designated as “Special Account for the Exclusive Benefit of Customers of (name of the broker or dealer)”; or
(ii) Who, as an introducing broker or dealer, clears all transactions with and for customers on a fully disclosed basis with a clearing broker or dealer, and who promptly transmits all customer
funds and securities to the clearing broker or dealer which carries all of the accounts of such customers and maintains and preserves such books and records pertaining thereto pursuant to the requirements of §§ 240.17a-3 and 240.17a-4 of this chapter, as are customarily made and kept by a clearing broker or dealer.
(3) Upon written application by a broker or dealer, the Commission may exempt such broker or dealer from the provisions of this section, either unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions, if the Commission finds that the broker or dealer has established safeguards for the protection of funds and securities of customers comparable with those provided for by this section and that it is not necessary in the public interest or for the protection of investors to subject the particular broker or dealer to the provisions of this section.
(l)
Delivery of securities.
Nothing stated in this section shall be construed as affecting the absolute right of a customer of a broker or dealer to receive in the course of normal business operations following demand made on the broker or dealer, the physical delivery of certificates for:
(1) Fully-paid securities to which he is entitled, and,
(2) Margin securities upon full payment by such customer to the broker or dealer of the customer's indebtedness to the broker or dealer; and, subject to the right of the broker or dealer under Regulation T (12 CFR 220) to retain collateral for its own protection beyond the requirements of Regulation T, excess margin securities not reasonably required to collateralize such customer's indebtedness to the broker or dealer.
(m)
Completion of sell orders on behalf of customers.
If a broker or dealer executes a sell order of a customer (other than an order to execute a sale of securities which the seller does not own) and if for any reason whatever the broker or dealer has not obtained possession of the securities from the customer within 10 business days after the settlement date, the broker or dealer shall immediately thereafter close the transaction with the customer by purchasing securities of like kind and quantity:
Provided, however,
The term
customer
for the purpose of this paragraph (m) shall not include a broker or dealer who maintains an omnibus credit account with another broker or dealer in compliance with section 7(f) of Regulation T (12 CFR 220.7(f)).

# Note to paragraph (
m

# ):
See 38 FR 12103, May 9, 1973 for an order suspending indefinitely the operation of paragraph (m) as to sell orders for exempted securities (e.g., U.S. Government and municipal obligations).
(n)
Extensions of time.
If a registered national securities exchange or a registered national securities association is satisfied that a broker or dealer is acting in good faith in making the application and that exceptional circumstances warrant such action, such exchange or association, on application of the broker or dealer, may extend any period specified in paragraphs (d) (2) through (4), (h) and (m) of this section, relating to the requirement that such broker or dealer take action within a designated period of time to buy-in a security, for one or more limited periods commensurate with the circumstances. Each such exchange or association shall make and preserve for a period of not less than 3 years a record of each extension granted pursuant to paragraph (n) of this section which shall contain a summary of the justification for the granting of the extension.
(o)
Security futures products
—(1)
Where security futures products shall be held.
A broker or dealer registered with the Commission pursuant to section 15(b)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
(b)(1)) that is also a futures commission merchant registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission pursuant to section 4f(a)(1) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6f(a)(1)):
(i) Shall hold a customer's security futures products in either a securities account or a futures account; and
(ii) Shall establish written policies or procedures for determining whether customer security futures products will be placed in a securities account or a futures account and, if applicable, the process by which a customer may elect the type or types of account in which security futures products will be held (including the procedure to be followed
if a customer fails to make an election of account type).
(2)
Disclosure and record requirements.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (o)(2)(ii), before a broker or dealer registered with the Commission pursuant to section 15(b)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(1)) accepts the first order for a security futures product from or on behalf of a customer, the broker or dealer shall furnish the customer with a disclosure document containing the following information:
(A) A description of the protections provided by the requirements set forth under this section and SIPA applicable to a securities account;
(B) A description of the protections provided by the requirements set forth under section 4d of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6d) applicable to a futures account;
(C) A statement indicating whether the customer's security futures products will be held in a securities account or a futures account, or whether the firm permits customers to make or change an election of account type; and
(D) A statement that, with respect to holding the customer's security futures products in a securities account or a futures account, the alternative regulatory scheme is not available to the customer with relation to that account.
(ii) Where a customer account containing an open security futures product position is transferred to a broker or dealer registered with the Commission pursuant to section 15(b)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(1)), that broker or dealer may instead provide the statements described in paragraphs (o)(2)(i)(C) and (o)(2)(i)(D) of this section no later than ten business days after the date the account is received.
(3)
Changes in account type.
A broker or dealer registered with the Commission pursuant to section 15(b)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
(b)(1)) that is also a futures commission merchant registered pursuant to section 4f(a)(1) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6f(a)(1)) may change the type of account in which a customer's security futures products will be held;
provided
that:
(i) The broker or dealer creates a record of each change in account type, including the name of the customer, the account number, the date the broker or dealer received the customer's request to change the account type, if applicable, and the date the change in account type became effective; and
(ii) The broker or dealer, at least ten days before the customer's account type is changed:
(A) Notifies the customer in writing of the date that the change will become effective; and
(B) Provides the customer with the disclosures described in paragraph (o)(2)(i) of this section.
(p)
Segregation requirements for security-based swaps.
The following requirements apply to the security-based swap activities of a broker or dealer.
(1)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this paragraph:
(i) The term
cleared security-based swap
means a security-based swap that is, directly or indirectly, submitted to and cleared by a clearing agency registered with the Commission pursuant to section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1);
(ii) The term
excess securities collateral
means securities and money market instruments carried for the account of a security-based swap customer that have a market value in excess of the current exposure of the broker or dealer (after reducing the current exposure by the amount of cash in the account) to the security-based swap customer, excluding:
(A) Securities and money market instruments held in a qualified clearing agency account but only to the extent the securities and money market instruments are being used to meet a margin requirement of the clearing agency resulting from a security-based swap transaction of the security-based swap customer; and
(B) Securities and money market instruments held in a qualified registered security-based swap dealer account or in a third-party custodial account but only to the extent the securities and money market instruments are being used to meet a regulatory margin requirement of a security-based swap dealer resulting from the broker or dealer entering into a non-cleared security-based swap transaction with the
security-based swap dealer to offset the risk of a non-cleared security-based swap transaction between the broker or dealer and the security-based swap customer;
(iii) The term
qualified clearing agency account
means an account of a broker or dealer at a clearing agency registered with the Commission pursuant to section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) that holds funds and other property in order to margin, guarantee, or secure cleared security-based swap transactions for the security-based swap customers of the broker or dealer that meets the following conditions:
(A) The account is designated “Special Clearing Account for the Exclusive Benefit of the Cleared Security-Based Swap Customers of [name of broker or dealer]”;
(B) The clearing agency has acknowledged in a written notice provided to and retained by the broker or dealer that the funds and other property in the account are being held by the clearing agency for the exclusive benefit of the security-based swap customers of the broker or dealer in accordance with the regulations of the Commission and are being kept separate from any other accounts maintained by the broker or dealer with the clearing agency; and
(C) The account is subject to a written contract between the broker or dealer and the clearing agency which provides that the funds and other property in the account shall be subject to no right, charge, security interest, lien, or claim of any kind in favor of the clearing agency or any person claiming through the clearing agency, except a right, charge, security interest, lien, or claim resulting from a cleared security-based swap transaction effected in the account.
(iv) The term
qualified registered security-based swap dealer account
means an account at a security-based swap dealer that is registered with the Commission pursuant to section 15F of the Act that meets the following conditions:
(A) The account is designated “Special Reserve Account for the Exclusive Benefit of the Security-Based Swap Customers of [name of broker or dealer]”;
(B) The security-based swap dealer has acknowledged in a written notice provided to and retained by the broker or dealer that the funds and other property held in the account are being held by the security-based swap dealer for the exclusive benefit of the security-based swap customers of the broker or dealer in accordance with the regulations of the Commission and are being kept separate from any other accounts maintained by the broker or dealer with the security-based swap dealer;
(C) The account is subject to a written contract between the broker or dealer and the security-based swap dealer which provides that the funds and other property in the account shall be subject to no right, charge, security interest, lien, or claim of any kind in favor of the security-based swap dealer or any person claiming through the security-based swap dealer, except a right, charge, security interest, lien, or claim resulting from a non-cleared security-based swap transaction effected in the account; and
(D) The account and the assets in the account are not subject to any type of subordination agreement between the broker or dealer and the security-based swap dealer.
(v) The term
qualified security
means:
(A) Obligations of the United States;
(B) Obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States; and
(C) General obligations of any State or a political subdivision of a State that:
(
1
) Are not traded flat and are not in default;
(
2
) Were part of an initial offering of $500 million or greater; and
(
3
) Were issued by an issuer that has published audited financial statements within 120 days of its most recent fiscal year end.
(vi) The term
security-based swap customer
means any person from whom or on whose behalf the broker or dealer has received or acquired or holds funds or other property for the account of the person with respect to a cleared or non-cleared security-based swap transaction. The term does not include a person to the extent that person has a claim for funds or other property which
by contract, agreement or understanding, or by operation of law, is part of the capital of the broker or dealer or, in the case of an affiliate of the broker or dealer, is subordinated to all claims of customers (including PAB customers) and security-based swap customers of the broker or dealer.
(vii) The term
special reserve account for the exclusive benefit of security-based swap customers
means an account at a bank that meets the following conditions:
(A) The account is designated “Special Reserve Account for the Exclusive Benefit of the Security-Based Swap Customers of [name of broker or dealer]”;
(B) The account is subject to a written acknowledgement by the bank provided to and retained by the broker or dealer that the funds and other property held in the account are being held by the bank for the exclusive benefit of the security-based swap customers of the broker or dealer in accordance with the regulations of the Commission and are being kept separate from any other accounts maintained by the broker or dealer with the bank; and
(C) The account is subject to a written contract between the broker or dealer and the bank which provides that the funds and other property in the account shall at no time be used directly or indirectly as security for a loan or other extension of credit to the broker or dealer by the bank and, shall be subject to no right, charge, security interest, lien, or claim of any kind in favor of the bank or any person claiming through the bank.
(viii) The term
third-party custodial account
means an account carried by an independent third-party custodian that meets the following conditions:
(A) The account is established for the purposes of meeting regulatory margin requirements of another security-based swap dealer;
(B) The account is carried by a bank as defined in section 3(a)(6) of the Act or a registered U.S. clearing organization or depository or, if the collateral to be held in the account consists of foreign securities or currencies, a supervised foreign bank, clearing organization, or depository that customarily maintains custody of such foreign securities or currencies;
(C) The account is designated for and on behalf of the broker or dealer for the benefit of its security-based swap customers and the account is subject to a written acknowledgement by the bank, clearing organization, or depository provided to and retained by the broker or dealer that the funds and other property held in the account are being held by the bank, clearing organization, or depository for the exclusive benefit of the security-based swap customers of the broker or dealer and are being kept separate from any other accounts maintained by the broker or dealer with the bank, clearing organization, or depository; and
(D) The account is subject to a written contract between the broker or dealer and the bank, clearing organization, or depository which provides that the funds and other property in the account shall at no time be used directly or indirectly as security for a loan or other extension of credit to the security-based swap dealer by the bank, clearing organization, or depository and, shall be subject to no right, charge, security interest, lien, or claim of any kind in favor of the bank, clearing organization, or depository or any person claiming through the bank, clearing organization, or depository.
(2)
Physical possession or control of excess securities collateral.
(i) A broker or dealer must promptly obtain and thereafter maintain physical possession or control of all excess securities collateral carried for the security-based swap accounts of security-based swap customers.
(ii) A broker or dealer has
control
of excess securities collateral only if the securities and money market instruments:
(A) Are represented by one or more certificates in the custody or control of a clearing corporation or other subsidiary organization of either national securities exchanges, or of a custodian bank in accordance with a system for the central handling of securities complying with the provisions of §§ 240.8c-1(g) and 240.15c2-1(g) the delivery of which certificates to the broker or dealer does not require the payment of money or value, and if the books or
records of the broker or dealer identify the security-based swap customers entitled to receive specified quantities or units of the securities so held for such security-based swap customers collectively;
(B) Are the subject of bona fide items of transfer; provided that securities and money market instruments shall be deemed not to be the subject of bona fide items of transfer if, within 40 calendar days after they have been transmitted for transfer by the broker or dealer to the issuer or its transfer agent, new certificates conforming to the instructions of the broker or dealer have not been received by the broker or dealer, the broker or dealer has not received a written statement by the issuer or its transfer agent acknowledging the transfer instructions and the possession of the securities or money market instruments, or the broker or dealer has not obtained a revalidation of a window ticket from a transfer agent with respect to the certificate delivered for transfer;
(C) Are in the custody or control of a bank as defined in section 3(a)(6) of the Act, the delivery of which securities or money market instruments to the broker or dealer does not require the payment of money or value and the bank having acknowledged in writing that the securities and money market instruments in its custody or control are not subject to any right, charge, security interest, lien or claim of any kind in favor of a bank or any person claiming through the bank;
(D)(
1
) Are held in or are in transit between offices of the broker or dealer; or
(
2
) Are held by a corporate subsidiary if the broker or dealer owns and exercises a majority of the voting rights of all of the voting securities of such subsidiary, assumes or guarantees all of the subsidiary's obligations and liabilities, operates the subsidiary as a branch office of the broker or dealer, and assumes full responsibility for compliance by the subsidiary and all of its associated persons with the provisions of the Federal securities laws as well as for all of the other acts of the subsidiary and such associated persons; or
(E) Are held in such other locations as the Commission shall upon application from a broker or dealer find and designate to be adequate for the protection of security-based swap customer securities.
(iii) Each business day the broker or dealer must determine from its books and records the quantity of excess securities collateral in its possession or control as of the close of the previous business day and the quantity of excess securities collateral not in its possession or control as of the previous business day. If the broker or dealer did not obtain possession or control of all excess securities collateral on the previous business day as required by this section and there are securities or money market instruments of the same issue and class in any of the following non-control locations:
(A) Securities or money market instruments subject to a lien securing an obligation of the broker or dealer, then the broker or dealer, not later than the next business day on which the determination is made, must issue instructions for the release of the securities or money market instruments from the lien and must obtain physical possession or control of the securities or money market instruments within two business days following the date of the instructions;
(B) Securities or money market instruments held in a qualified clearing agency account, then the broker or dealer, not later than the next business day on which the determination is made, must issue instructions for the release of the securities or money market instruments by the clearing agency and must obtain physical possession or control of the securities or money market instruments within two business days following the date of the instructions;
(C) Securities or money market instruments held in a qualified registered security-based swap dealer account maintained by another security-based swap dealer or in a third-party custodial account, then the broker or dealer, not later than the next business day on which the determination is made, must issue instructions for the release of the securities or money market instruments by the security-based swap dealer or the third-party custodian and
must obtain physical possession or control of the securities or money market instruments within two business days following the date of the instructions;
(D) Securities or money market instruments loaned by the broker or dealer, then the broker or dealer, not later than the next business day on which the determination is made, must issue instructions for the return of the loaned securities or money market instruments and must obtain physical possession or control of the securities or money market instruments within five business days following the date of the instructions;
(E) Securities or money market instruments failed to receive more than 30 calendar days, then the broker or dealer, not later than the next business day on which the determination is made, must take prompt steps to obtain physical possession or control of the securities or money market instruments through a buy-in procedure or otherwise;
(F) Securities or money market instruments receivable by the broker or dealer as a security dividend, stock split or similar distribution for more than 45 calendar days, then the broker or dealer, not later than the next business day on which the determination is made, must take prompt steps to obtain physical possession or control of the securities or money market instruments through a buy-in procedure or otherwise; or
(G) Securities or money market instruments included on the broker's or dealer's books or records that allocate to a short position of the broker or dealer or a short position for another person, for more than 30 calendar days, then the broker or dealer must, not later than the business day following the day on which the determination is made, take prompt steps to obtain physical possession or control of such securities or money market instruments.
(3)
Deposit requirement for special reserve account for the exclusive benefit of security-based swap customers.
(i) A broker or dealer must maintain a special reserve account for the exclusive benefit of security-based swap customers that is separate from any other bank account of the broker or dealer. The broker or dealer must at all times maintain in the special reserve account for the exclusive benefit of security-based swap customers, through deposits into the account, cash and/or qualified securities in amounts computed in accordance with the formula set forth in § 240.15c3-3b. In determining the amount maintained in a special reserve account for the exclusive benefit of security-based swap customers, the broker or dealer must deduct:
(A) The percentage of the value of a general obligation of a State or a political subdivision of a State specified in § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi);
(B) The aggregate value of general obligations of a State or a political subdivision of a State to the extent the amount of the obligations of a single issuer (after applying the deduction in paragraph (p)(3)(i)(A) of this section) exceeds two percent of the amount required to be maintained in the special reserve account for the exclusive benefit of security-based swap customers;
(C) The aggregate value of all general obligations of States or political subdivisions of States to the extent the amount of the obligations (after applying the deduction in paragraph (p)(3)(i)(A) of this section) exceeds 10 percent of the amount required to be maintained in the special reserve account for the exclusive benefit of security-based swap customers;
(D) The amount of cash deposited with a single non-affiliated bank to the extent the amount exceeds 15 percent of the equity capital of the bank as reported by the bank in its most recent Call Report or any successor form the bank is required to file by its appropriate federal banking agency (as defined by section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813)); and
(E) The total amount of cash deposited with an affiliated bank.
(ii) A broker or dealer must not accept or use credits identified in the items of the formula set forth in § 240.15c3-3b except for the specified purposes indicated under items comprising Total Debits under the formula, and, to the extent Total Credits exceed Total Debits, at least the net amount
thereof must be maintained in the Special Reserve Account pursuant to paragraph (p)(3)(i) of this section.
(iii)(A) The computations necessary to determine the amount required to be maintained in the special reserve account for the exclusive benefit of security-based swap customers must be made weekly as of the close of the last business day of the week and any deposit required to be made into the account must be made no later than one hour after the opening of banking business on the second following business day. The broker or dealer may make a withdrawal from the special reserve account for the exclusive benefit of security-based swap customers only if the amount remaining in the account after the withdrawal is equal to or exceeds the amount required to be maintained in the account pursuant to paragraph (p)(3) of this section.
(ii) (B) Computations in addition to the computations required pursuant to paragraph (p)(3)(iii)(A) of this section may be made as of the close of any business day, and deposits so computed must be made no later than one hour after the open of banking business on the second following business day.
(iv) A broker or dealer must promptly deposit into a special reserve account for the exclusive benefit of security-based swap customers cash and/or qualified securities of the broker or dealer if the amount of cash and/or qualified securities in one or more special reserve accounts for the exclusive benefit of security-based swap customers falls below the amount required to be maintained pursuant to this section.
(4)
Requirements for non-cleared security-based swaps
—(i)
Notice.
A broker or dealer registered under section 15F(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)) as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant must provide the notice required pursuant to section 3E(f)(1)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c-5(f)) in writing to a duly authorized individual prior to the execution of the first non-cleared security-based swap transaction with the counterparty occurring after the compliance date of this section.
(ii)
Subordination
—(A)
Counterparty that elects to have individual segregation at an independent third-party custodian.
A broker or dealer must obtain an agreement from a counterparty whose funds or other property to meet a margin requirement of the broker or dealer are held at a third-party custodian in which the counterparty agrees to subordinate its claims against the broker or dealer for the funds or other property held at the third-party custodian to the claims of customers (including PAB customers) and security-based swap customers of the broker or dealer but only to the extent that funds or other property provided by the counterparty to the independent third-party custodian are not treated as
customer property
as that term is defined in 11 U.S.C. 741 or
customer
property as defined in 15 U.S.C. 78
lll
(4) in a liquidation of the broker or dealer.
(B)
Counterparty that elects to have no segregation.
A broker or dealer registered under section 15F(b) of the Act as a security-based swap dealer must obtain an agreement from a counterparty that is an affiliate of the broker or dealer that affirmatively chooses not to require segregation of funds or other property pursuant to section 3E(f) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c-5(f)) in which the counterparty agrees to subordinate all of its claims against the broker or dealer to the claims of customers (including PAB customers) and security-based swap customers of the broker or dealer.
[37 FR 25226, Nov. 29, 1972; 38 FR 6277, Mar. 8, 1973, as amended at 42 FR 23790, May 10, 1977; 44 FR 1975, Jan. 9, 1979; 45 FR 37688, June 4, 1980; 47 FR 21775, May 20, 1982; 47 FR 23920, June 2, 1982; 50 FR 41340, Oct. 10, 1985; 52 FR 30333, Aug. 14, 1987; 63 FR 59400, Nov. 3, 1998; 67 FR 58299, Sept. 13, 2002; 68 FR 12783, Mar. 17, 2003; 78 FR 51902, Aug. 21, 2013; 84 FR 44047, Aug. 22, 2019; 90 FR 2837, Jan. 13, 2025]
§ 240.15c3-3a
Exhibit A—Formula for determination of customer and PAB account reserve requirements of brokers and dealers under § 240.15c3-3.
Credits
Debits
1. Free credit balances and other credit balances in customers' security accounts. (See Note A)
XXX
2. Monies borrowed collateralized by securities carried for the accounts of customers (See Note B)
XXX
3. Monies payable against customers' securities loaned (See Note C)
XXX
4. Customers' securities failed to receive (See Note D)
XXX
5. Credit balances in firm accounts which are attributable to principal sales to customers
XXX
6. Market value of stock dividends, stock splits and similar distributions receivable outstanding over 30 calendar days
XXX
7. Market value of short security count differences over 30 calendar days old
XXX
8. Market value of short securities and credits (not to be offset by longs or by debits) in all suspense accounts over 30 calendar days
XXX
9. Market value of securities which are in transfer in excess of 40 calendar days and have not been confirmed to be in transfer by the transfer agent or the issuer during the 40 days
XXX
10. Debit balances in customers' cash and margin accounts excluding unsecured accounts and accounts doubtful of collection. (See Note E)
XXX
11. Securities borrowed to effectuate short sales by customers and securities borrowed to make delivery on customers' securities failed to deliver
XXX
12. Failed to deliver of customers' securities not older than 30 calendar days
XXX
13. Margin required and on deposit with the Options Clearing Corporation for all option contracts written or purchased in customer accounts. (See Note F)
XXX
14. Margin required and on deposit with a clearing agency registered with the Commission under section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) or a derivatives clearing organization registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under section 5b of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-1) related to the following types of positions written, purchased or sold in customer accounts: (1) security futures products and (2) futures contracts (and options thereon) carried in a securities account pursuant to an SRO portfolio margining rule (See Note G)
XXX
15. Margin required and on deposit with a clearing agency registered with the Commission under section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) resulting from the following types of transactions in U.S. Treasury securities in customer accounts that have been cleared, settled, and novated by the clearing agency: (1) purchases and sales of U.S. Treasury securities; and (2) U.S. Treasury securities repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements (See Note H)
XXX
Total credits
Total debits
16. Excess of total credits (sum of items 1-9) over total debits (sum of items 10-15) required to be on deposit in the “Reserve Bank Account” (§ 240.15c3-3(e)). If the computation is made monthly as permitted by this section, the deposit must be not less than 105 percent of the excess of total credits over total debits
XXX

# Notes Regarding the Customer Reserve Bank Account Computation
Note A.
Item 1 must include all outstanding drafts payable to customers which have been applied against free credit balances or other credit balances and must also include checks drawn in excess of bank balances per the records of the broker or dealer.
Note B.
Item 2 must include the amount of options-related or security futures product-related Letters of Credit obtained by a member of a registered clearing agency or a derivatives clearing organization which are collateralized by customers' securities, to the extent of the member's margin requirement at the registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization. Item 2 must also include the amount of Letters of Credit which are collateralized by customers' securities and related to other futures contracts (and options thereon) carried in a securities account pursuant to an SRO portfolio margining rule. Item 2 must include the market value of customers' securities on deposit at a “qualified clearing agency” as defined in Note H below.
Note C.
Item 3 must include in addition to monies payable against customers' securities loaned the amount by which the market value of securities loaned exceeds the collateral value received from the lending of such securities.
Note D.
Item 4 must include in addition to customers' securities failed to receive the amount by which the market value of securities failed to receive and outstanding more than thirty (30) calendar days exceeds their contract value.
Note E.
(1) Debit balances in margin accounts must be reduced by the amount by which a specific security (other than an exempted security) which is collateral for margin accounts exceeds in aggregate value 15 percent of the aggregate value of all securities which collateralize all margin accounts receivable; provided, however, the required reduction must not be in excess of the amounts of the debit balance required to be excluded because of this concentration rule. A specified security is deemed to be collateral for a margin account only to the extent it represents in value not more than 140 percent of the customer debit balance in a margin account.
(2) Debit balances in special omnibus accounts, maintained in compliance with the requirements of Section 7(f) of Regulation T (12 CFR 220.7(f)) or similar accounts carried on behalf of another broker or dealer, must be reduced by any deficits in such accounts (or if a credit, such credit must be increased) less any calls for margin, mark to the market, or other required deposits which are outstanding five business days or less.
(3) Debit balances in customers' cash and margin accounts included in the formula under Item 10 must be reduced by an amount equal to 1 percent of their aggregate value.
(4) Debit balances in cash and margin accounts of household members and other persons related to principals of a broker or dealer and debit balances in cash and margin accounts of affiliated persons of a broker or dealer must be excluded from the Reserve Formula, unless the broker or dealer can demonstrate that such debit balances are directly related to credit items in the formula.
(5) Debit balances in margin accounts (other than omnibus accounts) must be reduced by the amount by which any single customer's debit balance exceeds 25 percent (to the extent such amount is greater than $50,000) of the broker-dealer's tentative net capital (
i.e.,
net capital prior to securities haircuts) unless the broker or dealer can demonstrate that the debit balance is directly related to credit items in the Reserve Formula. Related accounts (
e.g.,
the separate accounts of an individual, accounts under common control or subject to cross guarantees) will be deemed to be a single customer's accounts for purposes of this provision. If the registered national securities exchange or the registered national securities association having responsibility for examining the broker or dealer (“designated examining authority”) is satisfied, after taking into account the circumstances of the concentrated account including the quality, diversity, and marketability of the collateral securing the debit balances or margin accounts subject to this provision, that the concentration of debit balances is appropriate, then such designated examining authority may grant a partial or plenary exception from this provision. The debit balance may be included in the reserve formula computation for five business days from the day the request is made.
(6) Debit balances in joint accounts, custodian accounts, participation in hedge funds or limited partnerships or similar type accounts or arrangements that include both assets of a person or persons who would be excluded from the definition of customer (“noncustomer”) and assets of a person or persons who would be included in the definition of customer must be included in the Reserve Formula in the following manner: if the percentage ownership of the non-customer is less than 5 percent then the entire debit balance shall be included in the formula; if such percentage ownership is between 5 percent and 50 percent then the portion of the debit balance attributable to the non-customer must be excluded from the formula unless the broker or dealer can demonstrate that the debit balance is directly related to credit items in the formula; or if such percentage ownership is greater than 50 percent, then the entire debit balance must be excluded from the formula unless the broker or dealer can demonstrate that the debit balance is directly related to credit items in the formula.
Note F.
Item 13 must include the amount of margin required and on deposit with the Options Clearing Corporation to the extent such margin is represented by cash, proprietary qualified securities and letters of credit collateralized by customers' securities.
Note G.
(a) Item 14 must include the amount of margin required and on deposit with a clearing agency registered with the Commission under section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) or a derivatives clearing organization registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under section 5b of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-1) for customer accounts to the extent that the margin is represented by cash, proprietary qualified securities, and letters of credit collateralized by customers' securities.
(b) Item 14 will apply only if the broker or dealer has the margin related to security futures products, or futures (and options thereon) carried in a securities account pursuant to an approved SRO portfolio margining program on deposit with:
(1) A registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization that:
(i) Maintains security deposits from clearing members in connection with regulated options or futures transactions and assessment power over member firms that equal a combined total of at least $2 billion, at least $500 million of which must be in the form of security deposits. For the purposes of this Note G, the term “security deposits” refers to a general fund, other than margin deposits or their equivalent, that consists of cash
or securities held by a registered clearing agency or derivative clearing organization; or
(ii) Maintains at least $3 billion in margin deposits; or
(iii) Does not meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(iii) of this Note G, if the Commission has determined, upon a written request for exemption by or for the benefit of the broker or dealer, that the broker or dealer may utilize such a registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization. The Commission may, in its sole discretion, grant such an exemption subject to such conditions as are appropriate under the circumstances, if the Commission determines that such conditional or unconditional exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and is consistent with the protection of investors; and
