Reference to amended sections.
(a) Reference to any section in this part is a reference to the same as currently amended, unless the reference includes a specific date.
See
44 U.S.C. 1510.
(b) Reference to any ruling, order, instruction, direction, or license issued pursuant to this part is a reference to the same as currently amended unless otherwise so specified.
§ 588.402
Effect of amendment.
Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.
§ 588.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 588.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 588.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.
§ 588.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
(a) Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(1) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201; or
(2) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
(b) For example, a license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201, also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks, provided that such other persons are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201.
§ 588.405
Provision and receipt of services.
(a) The prohibitions contained in § 588.201 apply to services performed in
the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201; or
(2) With respect to property interests of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201.
(b) The prohibitions on transactions contained in § 588.201 apply to services received in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, where the service is performed by, or at the direction of, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201.
(c) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201, or negotiate with or enter into contracts signed by a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201.

# Note 1 to § 588.405.
See
§§ 588.507 and 588.509 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
[87 FR 58996, Sept. 29, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 25492, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 588.406
Offshore transactions involving blocked property.
The prohibitions in § 588.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property, as defined in § 588.301, apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States.
§ 588.407
Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.
Pursuant to § 588.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 588.407.
See also
§ 588.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
§ 588.408
Charitable contributions.
Unless specifically authorized by OFAC pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201. For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201 if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from such a person.
§ 588.409
Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.
The prohibition in § 588.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201.
§ 588.410
Setoffs prohibited.
A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. financial institution or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 588.201 if effected after the effective date.
§ 588.411
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.
Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to
§ 588.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
§ 588.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Balkans-Related sanctions page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
§ 588.502
Effect of license or other authorization.
(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. Government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. Government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.
§ 588.503
Exclusion from licenses.
OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.
§ 588.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.

# Note 1 to § 588.504.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 588.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
§ 588.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.
(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
§ 588.506
Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.
Subject to the requirements of § 588.203, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 588.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (
e.g.,
through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201.
§ 588.507
Provision of certain legal services.
(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 588.508, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of
U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services.
See
§ 588.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 588.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 588.507.
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.
§ 588.508
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
(a)
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 588.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 588.507(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) of this section authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b)
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[87 FR 58996, Sept. 29, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 103648, Dec. 19, 2024]
§ 588.509
Emergency medical services.
The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.
§ 588.510
Official business of the United States Government.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
§ 588.511
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(e) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria and the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunizations.
§ 588.512
Authorizing certain transactions in support of nongovernmental organizations' activities.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of
landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.

# Note 1 to § 588.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[88 FR 25492, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 588.513
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.
(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1)
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2)
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3)
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).

# Note 1 to § 588.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78503, Dec. 21, 2022. Redesignated at 88 FR 25492, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Subpart F—Reports
§ 588.601
Records and reports.
For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation
§ 588.701
Penalties.
(a) Section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (IEEPA) is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) IEEPA provides for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not
more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b)(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Section 5(b) of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c(b)) (UNPA), provides that any person who willfully violates or evades or attempts to violate or evade any order, rule, or regulation issued by the President pursuant to Section 5(a) of the UNPA shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000 and, if a natural person, may also be imprisoned for not more than 20 years or both.
(e) Violations involving transactions described at section 203(b)(1) of IEEPA shall be subject only to the penalties set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.
(f) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[87 FR 58996, Sept. 29, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 2234, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2144, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3693, Jan. 15, 2025]
§ 588.702
Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.
(a)
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b)
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2)
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i)
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii)
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3)
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the
alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d)
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e)
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[87 FR 58996, Sept. 29, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]
§ 588.703
Penalty imposition.
If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
§ 588.704
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.
In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.
§ 588.705
Findings of Violation.
(a)
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
);
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b)
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2)
Deadline for response; Default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action.
The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(i)
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii)
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3)
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Office of Compliance and Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4)
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c)
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(2)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# )(2).
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d)
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[87 FR 58996, Sept. 29, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]

# Subpart H—Procedures
§ 588.801
Procedures.
For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
§ 588.802
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.
Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to E.O. 13219 of June 26, 2001, as amended by E.O. 13304 of May 28, 2003, E.O. 14033 of June 8, 2021, and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared therein, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
§ 588.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
Pt. 589

# PART 589—UKRAINE-/RUSSIA-RELATED SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
Sec.
589.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
589.201
Prohibited transactions.
589.202
Prohibited transactions with respect to the financial services sector of the Russian Federation economy (Directive 1).
589.203
Prohibited transactions with respect to financing activities in the energy sector of the Russian Federation economy (Directive 2).
589.204
Prohibited transactions with respect to the defense and related materiel sector of the Russian Federation economy (Directive 3).
589.205
Prohibited transactions with respect to oil producing activities in the energy sector of the Russian Federation economy (Directive 4).
589.206
Prohibited new investment in the Crimea region of Ukraine.
589.207
Prohibited exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply of goods, services, or technology to the Crimea region of Ukraine.
589.208
Prohibited importation of goods, services, or technology from the Crimea region of Ukraine.
589.209
Prohibitions or strict conditions with respect to correspondent or payable-through accounts of foreign financial institutions that have knowingly facilitated certain significant transactions.
589.210
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
589.211
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
589.212
Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.
589.213
Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.
589.214
Exempt transactions.
589.215
Prohibited facilitation.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
589.300
Applicability of definitions.
589.301
Arctic offshore projects.
589.302
Arms or related materiel sector of the Russian Federation economy.
589.303
Blocked account; blocked property.
589.304
Correspondent account.
589.305
Covered Executive order.
589.306
Crimea region of Ukraine.
589.307
Debt.
589.308
Deepwater projects.
589.309
Defense and related materiel sector of the Russian Federation economy.
589.310
Effective date.
589.311
Energy sector of the Russian Federation economy.
589.312
Entity.
589.313
Equity.
589.314
Financial, material, or technological support.
589.315
Financial services sector of the Russian Federation economy.
589.316
Foreign financial institution.
589.317
Foreign person.
589.318
Government of the Russian Federation.
589.319
[Reserved]
589.320
Initiated.
589.321
Interest.
589.322
Knowingly.
589.323
Licenses; general and specific.
589.324
Loans or other extensions of credit.
589.325
Metals and mining sector of the Russian Federation economy.
589.326
New investment.
589.327
OFAC.
589.328
Payable-through account.
589.329
Person.
589.330
Production.
589.331
Property; property interest.
589.332
Railway sector of the Russian Federation economy.
589.333
Russian person.
589.334
Shale projects.
589.335
Special Russian crude oil project.
589.336
Structured.
589.337
Transfer.
589.338
United States.
589.339
United States person; U.S. person.
589.340
U.S. depository institution.
589.341
U.S. financial institution.
589.342
U.S.-registered broker or dealer in securities.
589.343
U.S.-registered money transmitter.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
589.401
Reference to amended sections.
589.402
Effect of amendment.
589.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
589.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
589.405
Exportation and reexportation of goods, services, or technology; provision and receipt of services.
589.406
Offshore transactions involving blocked property.
589.407
Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.
589.408
Charitable contributions.
589.409
Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.
589.410
Setoffs prohibited.
589.411
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked or who are subject to § 589.202, § 589.203, § 589.204, or § 589.205.
589.412
Projects owned, or to which a majority of voting rights are held, by one or more persons subject to § 589.205.
589.413
Significant transaction(s); significant financial transaction(s).
589.414
Facilitation; change of policies and procedures; referral of business opportunities offshore.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
589.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
589.502
Effect of license or other authorization.
589.503
Exclusion from licenses.
589.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
589.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.
589.506
Provision of certain legal services.
589.507
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
589.508
Emergency medical services.
589.509
Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.
589.510
Official business of the United States Government.
589.511
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
589.512
Certain transactions related to derivatives prohibited by § 589.202, § 589.203, or § 589.204.
589.513
Exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical supplies, and replacement parts to the Crimea region of Ukraine.
589.514
Noncommercial, personal remittances to or from the Crimea region of Ukraine or for or on behalf of an individual ordinarily resident in the Crimea region of Ukraine.
589.515
Operation of accounts for individuals ordinarily resident in the Crimea region of Ukraine.
589.516
Transactions related to telecommunications and mail involving the Crimea region of Ukraine.
589.517
Exportation of certain services and software incident to internet-based communications to the Crimea region of Ukraine.
589.518
Transactions necessary and ordinarily incident to publishing in the Crimea region of Ukraine.
589.519
Emergency landings and air ambulance services in the Crimea region of Ukraine.
589.520
Certain transactions in support of nongovernmental organizations' activities in the Crimea region of Ukraine.
589.521
Transactions related to closing a correspondent or payable-through account.

# Subpart F—Reports
589.601
Records and reports.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation
589.701
Penalties.
589.702
Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.
589.703
Penalty imposition.
589.704
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.
589.705
Findings of Violation.

# Subpart H—Procedures
589.801
Procedures.
589.802
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
589.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 22 U.S.C. 8901-8910, 8921-8930; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 115-44, 131 Stat. 886 (codified in scattered sections of 22 U.S.C.); E.O. 13660, 79 FR 13493, 3 CFR, 2014 Comp., p. 226; E.O. 13661, 79 FR 15535, 3 CFR, 2014 Comp., p. 229; E.O. 13662, 79 FR 16169, 3 CFR, 2014 Comp., p. 233; E.O. 13685, 79 FR 77357, 3 CFR, 2014 Comp., p. 313., E.O. 13849, 3 CFR, 2018 Comp., p. 875, E.O. 14065, 87 FR 10293, 3 CFR, 2022 Comp., p. 340.

# Source:
87 FR 26099, May 2, 2022, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
§ 589.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
§ 589.201
Prohibited transactions.
(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(1)
Executive Order (E.O.) 13660.
Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have engaged in, directly or indirectly, any of the following:
(A) Actions or policies that undermine democratic processes or institutions in Ukraine;
(B) Actions or policies that threaten the peace, security, stability, sovereignty, or territorial integrity of Ukraine; or
(C) Misappropriation of state assets of Ukraine or of an economically significant entity in Ukraine;
(ii) To have asserted governmental authority over any part or region of Ukraine without the authorization of the Government of Ukraine;
(iii) To be a leader of an entity that has, or whose members have, engaged in any activity described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) or of an entity whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a)(1);
(iv) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any activity described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a)(1);
(v) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a)(1);
(2)
E.O. 13661 Annex.
The persons listed in the Annex to E.O. 13661 of March 16, 2014;
(3)
E.O. 13661.
Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To be an official of the Government of the Russian Federation;
(ii) To operate in the arms or related materiel sector in the Russian Federation;
(iii) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly:
(A) A senior official of the Government of the Russian Federation; or
(B) A person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section or this paragraph (a)(3); or
(iv) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of:
(A) A senior official of the Government of the Russian Federation; or
(B) A person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section or this paragraph (a)(3);
(4)
E.O. 13662 and Secretary of the Treasury determinations.
Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To operate in the defense and related materiel sector of the Russian Federation economy;
(ii) To operate in the financial services sector of the Russian Federation economy;
(iii) To operate in the energy sector of the Russian Federation economy;
(iv) To be a state-owned entity operating in the railway sector of the Russian Federation economy;
(v) To be a state-owned entity operating in the metals and mining sector of the Russian Federation economy;
(vi) To operate in any other sectors of the Russian Federation economy as may be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State;

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# )(4)(
vi

# ):
Any sector in the Russian Federation economy that is determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to be subject to this paragraph (a)(4)(vi) will be so identified in a publication in the
Federal Register
.
(vii) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a)(4); or
(viii) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a)(4);
(5)
E.O. 13685.
Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To operate in the Crimea region of Ukraine;
(ii) To be a leader of an entity operating in the Crimea region of Ukraine;
(iii) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a)(5); or
(iv) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a)(5);
(6)
Support for the Sovereignty, Integrity, Democracy, and Economic Stability of Ukraine Act of 2014, as amended (22 U.S.C. 8901-8910) (SSIDES).
(i) Any person, including a current or former official of the Government of Ukraine or a person acting on behalf of that Government, that the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, determines has perpetrated, or is responsible for ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, significant acts of violence or gross human rights abuses in Ukraine against persons associated with the antigovernment protests in Ukraine that began on November 21, 2013;
(ii) Any person that the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, determines has perpetrated, or is responsible for ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, significant acts that are intended to undermine the peace, security, stability, sovereignty, or territorial integrity of Ukraine, including acts of economic extortion;
(iii) Any official of the Government of the Russian Federation, or a close associate or family member of such an official, that the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, determines is responsible for, complicit in, or responsible for ordering, controlling, or otherwise
directing, acts of significant corruption in Ukraine, including the expropriation of private or public assets for personal gain, corruption related to government contracts or the extraction of natural resources, bribery, or the facilitation or transfer of the proceeds of corruption to foreign jurisdictions;
(iv) Any individual that the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, determines materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of, the commission of acts described in paragraph (a)(6)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section;
(v) Any official of the Government of the Russian Federation, or a close associate or family member of such an official, that the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, determines is, on or after August 2, 2017, responsible for, or complicit in, or responsible for ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, acts of significant corruption in the Russian Federation or elsewhere, including the expropriation of private or public assets for personal gain, corruption related to government contracts or the extraction of natural resources, bribery, or the facilitation or transfer of the proceeds of corruption to foreign jurisdictions;
(vi) Any individual who has materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of, an act described in paragraph (a)(6)(v) of this section and has been added to the SDN List for such behavior;
(vii) A foreign person that the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, determines knowingly, on or after August 2, 2017:
(A) Materially violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition contained in or issued pursuant to any covered Executive order, SSIDES, or the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014, as amended (22 U.S.C. 8921-8930) (UFSA); or
(B) Facilitates a significant transaction or transactions, including deceptive or structured transactions, for or on behalf of:
(
1
) Any person subject to sanctions imposed by the United States with respect to the Russian Federation; or
(
2
) Any child, spouse, parent, or sibling of an individual described in paragraph (a)(6)(vii)(B)(
1
) of this section.
(viii) A foreign person that the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, determines, based on credible information, on or after August 2, 2017:
(A) Is responsible for, complicit in, or responsible for ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, the commission of serious human rights abuses in any territory forcibly occupied or otherwise controlled by the Government of the Russian Federation;
(B) Materially assists, sponsors, or provides financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to, a foreign person described in paragraph (a)(6)(viii)(A) of this section; or
(C) Is owned or controlled by, or acts or purports to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, a foreign person described in paragraph (a)(6)(viii)(A) of this section.
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this part, any dealing in securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of
any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
(e) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any Executive order issued after December 19, 2014 pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13660 of March 6, 2014, are prohibited pursuant to this part.

# Note 2 to § 589.201:
The names of persons designated or identified as blocked pursuant to E.O. 13660, E.O. 13661, E.O. 13662, or E.O. 13685 are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the following identifiers: for E.O. 13660: “[UKRAINE-EO13660]”; for E.O. 13661: “[UKRAINE-EO13661]”; for E.O. 13662: “[UKRAINE-EO13662]”; and for E.O. 13685: “[UKRAINE-EO13685].” Except as described in note 4 to this section, the names of persons listed in, or designated or identified pursuant to any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13660, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's SDN List using the identifier formulation “[UKRAINE-E.O.[number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” Except as described in note 4 to this section, the names of persons designated pursuant to SSIDES, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's SDN List using the identifier “[SSIDES].” Certain transactions with persons blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, or blocked pursuant to other parts of 31 CFR chapter V in connection with certain Ukraine/Russia-related activities, may result in the imposition of secondary sanctions, and therefore such blocked persons' entries on the SDN List will also include the descriptive prefix text “Secondary sanctions risk:”, followed by information about the applicable secondary sanctions authority. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 589.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.

# Note 3 to § 589.201:
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), and SSIDES authorize the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. The names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section also are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13660: “[BPI-UKRAINE-EO13660]”; for E.O. 13661: “[BPI-UKRAINE-EO13661]”; for E.O. 13662: “[BPI-UKRAINE-EO13662]”; for E.O. 13685: “[BPI-UKRAINE-EO13685]”; for SSIDES: “[BPI-SSIDES]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13660: “[BPI-UKRAINE-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”

# Note 4 to § 589.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.

# Note 5 to § 589.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar
errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
[87 FR 26099, May 2, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 75966, Sept. 17, 2024]
§ 589.202
Prohibited transactions with respect to the financial services sector of the Russian Federation economy (Directive 1).
The following activities by a U.S. person or within the United States are prohibited:
(a) For new debt or new equity issued on or after July 16, 2014 and before September 12, 2014, all transactions in, provision of financing for, and other dealings in new debt of longer than 90 days maturity or new equity of persons determined to be subject to this section, their property, or their interests in property;
(b) For new debt or new equity issued on or after September 12, 2014 and before November 28, 2017, all transactions in, provision of financing for, and other dealings in new debt of longer than 30 days maturity or new equity of persons determined to be subject to this section, their property, or their interests in property; and
(c) For new debt or new equity issued on or after November 28, 2017, all transactions in, provision of financing for, and other dealings in new debt of longer than 14 days maturity or new equity of persons determined to be subject to this section, their property, or their interests in property.

# Note 1 to § 589.202:
The names of persons subject to this section (and earlier versions of Directive 1) are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Sectoral Sanctions Identifications List (SSI List) with the descriptive text “Executive Order 13662 Directive Determination—Subject to Directive 1.” Certain transactions with persons subject to this section may result in the imposition of secondary sanctions, and therefore such persons' entries on the SSI List will also include the descriptive prefix text “Secondary sanctions risk:”, followed by information about the applicable secondary sanctions authority. The SSI List is accessible via the Ukraine-/Russia-Related Sanctions page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac. See
§ 589.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SSI List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless subject to the prohibitions in this section.

# Note 2 to § 589.202:
Section 216 of the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (22 U.S.C. 9511) (CAATSA) requires Congressional review prior to the termination of sanctions imposed pursuant to E.O. 13662. Section 222 of CAATSA (22 U.S.C. 9522) describes the Congressional notification required prior to the termination of sanctions imposed pursuant to E.O. 13662.
§ 589.203
Prohibited transactions with respect to financing activities in the energy sector of the Russian Federation economy (Directive 2).
The following activities by a U.S. person or within the United States are prohibited:
(a) For new debt issued on or after July 16, 2014 and before November 28, 2017, all transactions in, provision of financing for, and other dealings in new debt of longer than 90 days maturity of persons determined to be subject to this section, their property, or their interests in property; and
(b) For new debt issued on or after November 28, 2017, all transactions in, provision of financing for, and other dealings in new debt of longer than 60 days maturity of persons determined to be subject to this section, their property, or their interests in property.

# Note 1 to § 589.203:
The names of persons subject to this section (and earlier versions of Directive 2) are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Sectoral Sanctions Identifications List (SSI List) with the descriptive text “Executive Order 13662 Directive Determination—Subject to Directive 2.” Certain transactions with persons subject to this section may result in the imposition of secondary sanctions, and therefore such persons' entries on the SSI List will also include the descriptive prefix text “Secondary sanctions risk:”, followed by information about the applicable secondary sanctions authority. The SSI List is accessible through the Ukraine-/Russia-Related Sanctions page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac. See
§ 589.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SSI List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless subject to the prohibitions in this section.

# Note 2 to § 589.203:
Section 216 of CAATSA (22 U.S.C. 9511) requires Congressional review prior to the termination of sanctions imposed pursuant to E.O. 13662. Section 222 of CAATSA (22 U.S.C. 9522) describes the Congressional notification required prior to the termination of sanctions imposed pursuant to E.O. 13662.
§ 589.204
Prohibited transactions with respect to the defense and related materiel sector of the Russian Federation economy (Directive 3).
All transactions in, provision of financing for, and other dealings in new debt of longer than 30 days maturity of persons determined to be subject to this section, their property, or their interests in property by a U.S. person or within in the United States are prohibited.

# Note 1 to § 589.204:
The names of persons subject to this section are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Sectoral Sanctions Identifications List (SSI List) with the descriptive text “Executive Order 13662 Directive Determination—Subject to Directive 3.” Certain transactions with persons subject to this section may result in the imposition of secondary sanctions, and therefore such persons' entries on the SSI List will also include the descriptive prefix text “Secondary sanctions risk:”, followed by information about the applicable secondary sanctions authority. The SSI List is accessible via the Ukraine-/Russia-Related Sanctions page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac. See
§ 589.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SSI List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless subject to the prohibitions of this section.

# Note 2 to § 589.204:
Section 216 of CAATSA (22 U.S.C. 9511) requires Congressional review prior to the termination of sanctions imposed pursuant to E.O. 13662. Section 222 of CAATSA (22 U.S.C. 9522) describes the Congressional notification required prior to the termination of sanctions imposed pursuant to E.O. 13662.
§ 589.205
Prohibited transactions with respect to oil-producing activities in the energy sector of the Russian Federation economy (Directive 4).
The following activities by a U.S. person or within the United States are prohibited: The provision, exportation, or reexportation, directly or indirectly, of goods, services (except for financial services), or technology in support of exploration or production for deepwater, Arctic offshore, or shale projects:
(a) That have the potential to produce oil in the Russian Federation, or in maritime area claimed by the Russian Federation and extending from its territory, and that involve any person determined to be subject to this section, their property, or their interests in property; or
(b) That are initiated on or after January 29, 2018, that have the potential to produce oil in any location, and in which any person determined to be subject to this section, their property, or their interests in property has a 33 percent or greater ownership interest, or ownership of a majority of the voting interests.

# Note 1 to § 589.205:
This section does not apply to projects that have the potential to produce gas only.

# Note 2 to § 589.205:
The names of persons subject to this section (and earlier versions of Directive 4) are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Sectoral Sanctions Identifications List (SSI List) with the descriptive text “Executive Order 13662 Directive Determination—Subject to Directive 4.” Certain transactions with persons subject to this section may result in the imposition of secondary sanctions, and therefore such persons' entries on the SSI List will also include the descriptive prefix text “Secondary sanctions risk:”, followed by information about the applicable secondary sanctions authority. The SSI List is accessible through the Ukraine-/Russia-Related Sanctions page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac. See
§ 589.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SSI List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless subject to the prohibitions of this section.

# Note 3 to § 589.205:
See
§ 589.412 concerning projects in which persons subject to paragraph (b) of this section own a 33 percent or greater ownership interest, or ownership of a majority of the voting interests.

# Note 4 to § 589.205:
See
§ 746.5 of the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR parts 730 through 774) for the Department of Commerce's related license requirement on exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of certain items for use in specified deepwater, Arctic offshore, or shale projects.

# Note 5 to § 589.205:
Section 216 of CAATSA (22 U.S.C. 9511) requires Congressional review prior to the termination of sanctions imposed pursuant to E.O. 13662. Section 222 of CAATSA (22 U.S.C. 9522) describes the Congressional notification required prior to the termination of sanctions imposed pursuant to E.O. 13662.
§ 589.206
Prohibited new investment in the Crimea region of Ukraine.
Except as otherwise authorized, new investment, as defined in § 589.326, in the Crimea region of Ukraine by a United States person, wherever located, is prohibited.
§ 589.207
Prohibited exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply of goods, services, or technology to the Crimea region of Ukraine.
Except as otherwise authorized, the exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply, directly or indirectly, from the United States, or by a United States person, wherever located, of any goods, services, or technology to the Crimea region of Ukraine is prohibited.
§ 589.208
Prohibited importation of goods, services, or technology from the Crimea region of Ukraine.
Except as otherwise authorized, the importation into the United States, directly or indirectly, of any goods, services, or technology from the Crimea region of Ukraine is prohibited.
§ 589.209
Prohibitions or strict conditions with respect to correspondent or payable-through accounts of foreign financial institutions that have knowingly facilitated certain significant transactions.
(a)
Prohibited activities.
A U.S. financial institution shall not:
(1) Open or maintain a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution for which the opening or maintaining of such an account is prohibited pursuant to this section; or
(2) Maintain a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution in a manner that is inconsistent with any strict condition imposed and in effect pursuant to this section.
(b)
Sanctionable activity by foreign financial institutions involving certain activity for persons with respect to which sanctions are imposed pursuant to section 4 of the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014, as amended (22 U.S.C. 8921-8930) (UFSA).
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, may determine that a foreign financial institution knowingly engages, on or after August 2, 2017, in significant transactions involving the following activities for persons with respect to which sanctions are imposed pursuant to section 4 of UFSA (22 U.S.C. 8923):
(1) Knowingly manufacturing or selling defense articles transferred into Syria or into the territory of a specified country without the consent of the internationally recognized government of that country;
(2) Transferring defense articles into Syria or into the territory of a specified country without the consent of the internationally recognized government of that country; or
(3) Brokering or otherwise assisting in the transfer of defense articles into Syria or into the territory of a specified country without the consent of the internationally recognized government of that country; or
(4) Knowingly, on or after December 18, 2014, assisting, sponsoring, or providing financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any entity owned or controlled by the Government of the Russian Federation or owned or controlled by nationals of the Russian Federation; and with respect to an activity described in paragraph (a)(1), (2), or (3) of this section;
(5) Knowingly making a significant investment in a special Russian crude oil project; or
(6) The withholding by Gazprom of significant natural gas supplies from member countries of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, or further withholding by Gazprom of significant natural gas supplies from countries such as Ukraine, Georgia, or Moldova.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
b

# ):
Persons with respect to which sanctions are imposed pursuant to section 4 of UFSA (22 U.S.C. 8923) will be identified either on OFAC's Non-SDN Menu-Based List (NS-MBS List) or on OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List). Upon the imposition of non-blocking sanctions from a menu of sanctions as provided by section 4 of UFSA, OFAC will place the name and other relevant identifiers of the sanctioned person on the NS-MBS List. The NS-MBS List also will specify the type of sanction or sanctions imposed on the listed person and the legal authority under which the person is sanctioned. When blocking is chosen as a menu-based sanction and imposed on a person, that person is identified solely on OFAC's SDN List, along with any other menu-based sanctions imposed on that person.
(c)
Sanctionable activity by foreign financial institutions on behalf of Russian persons included on the SDN List.
The
Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, may determine that a foreign financial institution has, on or after September 1, 2017, knowingly facilitated a significant financial transaction on behalf of any Russian person included on OFAC's SDN List pursuant to UFSA, E.O. 13660, E.O. 13661, E.O. 13662, or any other Executive order addressing the crisis in Ukraine.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
c

# ):
For information regarding persons included on OFAC's SDN List pursuant to UFSA, E.O. 13660, E.O. 13661, or E.O. 13662, or any other Executive order issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13660, including identifier information for entries on the SDN List,
see
note 1 to § 589.201.
(d)
Imposition of sanctions on foreign financial institutions.
Upon determining that a foreign financial institution has engaged in sanctionable activity described in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall:
(1) Prohibit the opening by a U.S. financial institution of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for the foreign financial institution; and
(2) Prohibit or impose one or more strict conditions on the maintaining by a U.S. financial institution of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for the foreign financial institution. Such conditions may include the following:
(i) Prohibiting or restricting any provision of trade finance through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution;
(ii) Restricting the transactions that may be processed through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution to certain types of transactions, such as personal remittances;
(iii) Placing monetary limits on, or limiting the volume of, the transactions that may be processed through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution;
(iv) Requiring pre-approval from the U.S. financial institution for all transactions processed through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution; or
(v) Prohibiting or restricting the processing of foreign exchange transactions through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution.

# Note 3 to § 589.209:
The names of foreign financial institutions for which the opening of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States is prohibited and for which the maintaining of a correspondent account or payable-through account is prohibited or subject to one or more strict conditions pursuant to this section will be added to the List of Foreign Financial Institutions Subject to Correspondent Account or Payable-Through Account Sanctions (CAPTA List) on OFAC's website (
www.treas.gov/ofac
), and published in the
Federal Register
along with the applicable prohibition or strict condition(s).

# Note 4 to § 589.209:
Section 216 of the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (22 U.S.C. 9511) (CAATSA) requires Congressional review prior to the termination of sanctions imposed pursuant to UFSA. Section 5(g) of UFSA (22 U.S.C. 8924(g)) describes the Congressional notification required prior to the termination of sanctions imposed pursuant section 5 of UFSA.
§ 589.210
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 589.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 589.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 589.201.
§ 589.211
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 589.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For the purposes of this section, the term
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For the purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For the purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 589.201 may continue to be held
until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 589.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.
§ 589.212
Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.
(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 589.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 589.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.
§ 589.213
Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.
(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
§ 589.214
Exempt transactions.
(a)
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
(b)
U.S. intelligence activities.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to activities subject to the reporting requirements under title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091
et seq.
), or any authorized intelligence activities of the United States.
(c)
Activities of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to activities of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), including the supply by any entity of the Russian Federation of any product or service, or the procurement of such product or service by any contractor or subcontractor of the United States or any other entity, relating to or in connection with any space launch conducted for NASA or any other non-Department of Defense customer.
(d)
Importation of goods.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to the importation of any goods that would otherwise be prohibited solely because of the interest of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked solely pursuant to § 589.201(a)(6)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), or (v). For the purposes of this paragraph (d), the term “good(s)” means any article, natural or manmade substance, material, supply or manufactured product, including inspection and test equipment, and excluding technical data.
(e)
Official business.
The prohibitions contained in §§ 589.201(a)(5), 589.206, 589.207, and 589.208 do not apply to
transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
e

# ):
See
§ 589.510 for a general license authorizing transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government not otherwise exempt.
§ 589.215
Prohibited facilitation.
Except as otherwise authorized, U.S. persons, wherever located, are prohibited from approving, financing, facilitating, or guaranteeing a transaction by a foreign person where the transaction by that foreign person would be prohibited by § 589.206, § 589.207, or § 589.208 of this part if performed by a U.S. person or within the United States.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
§ 589.300
Applicability of definitions.
The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.
§ 589.301
Arctic offshore projects.
(a) The term
Arctic offshore projects
as used in § 589.205 means projects that have the potential to produce oil in areas that—
(1) Involve drilling operations originating offshore, and
(2) Are located above the Arctic Circle.
(b) The term
Arctic offshore projects
as used in § 589.205 does not apply to horizontal drilling operations originating onshore where such drilling operations extend under the seabed to areas above the Arctic Circle.
§ 589.302
Arms or related materiel sector of the Russian Federation economy.
The term
arms or related materiel sector of the Russian Federation economy
includes: The procurement, development, test manufacture, maintenance, upgrade and refurbishment, shipping, supply, sale, and storage to, from, within, or transiting the Russian Federation of arms or related materiel of all types, including any battle tanks, armored combat vehicles, large caliber artillery systems, combat aircraft, attack helicopters, warships, missiles or missile systems, or related materiel; critical enablers, aggregates, components, parts, as well as related documentation and instructions for such items; or training for the use of included systems, provision of simulation equipment, documentation (including training manuals, maintenance orders, or technical bulletins), prototypes, software upgrades, and licensing and manufacturing agreements for such items.
§ 589.303
Blocked account; blocked property.
The terms
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 589.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.

# Note 1 to § 589.303:
See
§ 589.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201.
§ 589.304
Correspondent account.
The term
correspondent account
means an account established by a U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution to receive deposits from, or to make payments on behalf of, the foreign financial institution, or to handle other financial transactions related to such foreign financial institution.
§ 589.305
Covered Executive order.
The term
covered Executive order
means any of the following: Executive Order (E.O.) 13660, E.O. 13661, E.O. 13662, E.O. 13685, E.O. 13694, relating to the Russian Federation, or E.O. 13757, relating to the Russian Federation.
§ 589.306
Crimea region of Ukraine.
The term
Crimea region of Ukraine
includes the land territory in that region as well as any maritime areas over which sovereignty, sovereign rights, or
jurisdiction is claimed based on purported sovereignty over that land territory.
§ 589.307
Debt.
The term
debt
as used in §§ 589.202 through 589.204 includes bonds, loans, extensions of credit, loan guarantees, letters of credit, drafts, bankers' acceptances, discount notes or bills, or commercial paper.
§ 589.308
Deepwater projects.
The term
deepwater projects
as used in § 589.205 means projects that involve underwater activities at depths of more than 500 feet.
§ 589.309
Defense and related materiel sector of the Russian Federation economy.
The term
defense and related materiel sector of the Russian Federation economy
includes: The military, armed forces, or security forces of the Russian Federation; the military, armed forces, or security forces of the Russian Federation's use of arms or related materiel; and any person manufacturing, supplying, providing financing for, procuring, or distributing goods, services, or technology to the military, armed forces, or security forces of the Russian Federation; or financing, developing, testing, producing, or sustaining such goods or services or technology, or arms or related materiel, within or transiting the Russian Federation.
§ 589.310
Effective date.
(a) The term
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(1) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201(a)(2), 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, March 17, 2014;
(2) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 589.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked;
(3) With respect to the transactions prohibited by § 589.202, § 589.203, § 589.204, or § 589.205, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that a person was added to the Sectoral Sanctions Identifications List (SSI List);
(4) With respect to the transactions prohibited by §§ 589.206 through 589.208, 3:30 p.m. eastern standard time, December 19, 2014; and
(5) With respect to the transactions prohibited by § 589.209, the effective date of a prohibition on the opening or a prohibition or strict condition imposed on the maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States by a U.S. financial institution for a particular foreign financial institution pursuant to § 589.209(d) is the earlier of the date the U.S. financial institution receives actual or constructive notice of such prohibition or condition.
(b) For the purposes of this section,
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property, or a notice of the person's addition to the SSI List, or a notice of the imposition of a prohibition or strict condition pursuant to § 589.209, is published in the
Federal Register
.
§ 589.311
Energy sector of the Russian Federation economy.
The term
energy sector of the Russian Federation economy
includes the procurement, exploration, extraction, drilling, mining, harvesting, production, refinement, liquefaction, gasification, regasification, conversion, enrichment, fabrication, or transport to, from, or within the Russian Federation, of petroleum, natural gas, liquified natural gas, natural gas liquids, or petroleum products or other products capable of producing energy, such as coal or wood or agricultural products used to manufacture biofuels, the development, production, generation, transmission or exchange of power, through any means, including nuclear, electrical, thermal, and renewable, in or involving the Russian Federation.
§ 589.312
Entity.
The term
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
§ 589.313
Equity.
The term
equity
as used in § 589.202 includes stocks, share issuances, depositary receipts, or any other evidence of title or ownership.
§ 589.314
Financial, material, or technological support.
The term
financial, material, or technological support,
as used in this part, means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
§ 589.315
Financial services sector of the Russian Federation economy.
The
financial services sector of the Russian Federation economy
includes economic or financial services, including government-operated and private banks and financial institutions, credit card companies, investment banking services, foreign exchange services, money services businesses, payday lenders, mortgage companies, securities exchanges, securities dealers, asset managers, and insurance services, or any entities that are engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent, in or involving the Russian Federation.
§ 589.316
Foreign financial institution.
The term
foreign financial institution
means any foreign entity that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and holding companies, affiliates, or subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. The term does not include the international financial institutions identified in 22 U.S.C. 262r(c)(2), the International Fund for Agricultural Development, the North American Development Bank, or any other international financial institution so notified by OFAC.
§ 589.317
Foreign person.
(a) For the purposes of §§ 589.201(a)(6) and 589.413, the term
foreign person
means any citizen or national of a foreign state (including any such individual who is also a citizen or national of the United States), or any entity not organized solely under the laws of the United States or existing solely in the United States, but does not include a foreign state.
(b) For the purposes of the rest of this part, the term
foreign person
means any person that is not a U.S. person.
§ 589.318
Government of the Russian Federation.
The term
Government of the Russian Federation
means the Government of the Russian Federation, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the Central Bank of the Russian Federation, and any person owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of the Russian Federation.
§ 589.319
[Reserved]
§ 589.320
Initiated.
The term
initiated
as used in § 589.205(b) means when a government or any of its political subdivisions,
agencies, or instrumentalities (including any entity owned or controlled directly or indirectly by any of the foregoing) formally grants exploration, development, or production rights to any party.
§ 589.321
Interest.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
§ 589.322
Knowingly.
The term
knowingly,
with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result.
§ 589.323
Licenses; general and specific.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
(c) The term
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.

# Note 1 to § 589.323:
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See also
note 1 to § 589.501.
§ 589.324
Loans or other extensions of credit.
The term
loans or other extensions of credit
means any transfer or extension of funds or credit on the basis of an obligation to repay, or any assumption or guarantee of the obligation of another to repay an extension of funds or credit, including: Overdrafts; currency swaps; purchases of debt securities issued by persons subject to the prohibitions in this part; purchases of a loan made by another person; sales of financial assets subject to an agreement to repurchase; renewals or refinancings whereby funds or credits are transferred to or extended to a prohibited borrower or prohibited recipient; the issuance of standby letters of credit; and drawdowns on existing lines of credit.
§ 589.325
Metals and mining sector of the Russian Federation economy.
The term
metals and mining sector of the Russian Federation economy
includes any act, process, or industry of extracting, at the surface or underground, ores, coal, precious stones, or any other minerals or geological materials in the Russian Federation, or any act of procuring, processing, manufacturing, or refining such geological materials, or transporting them to, from, or within the Russian Federation.
§ 589.326
New investment.
The term
new investment
as used in § 589.206 means a transaction on or after 3:30 p.m. eastern standard time, December 19, 2014 that constitutes:
(a) A commitment or contribution of funds or other assets; or
(b) A loan or other extension of credit as defined in § 589.324.
§ 589.327
OFAC.
The term
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
§ 589.328
Payable-through account.
The term
payable-through account
means a correspondent account maintained by a U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution by means of which the foreign financial institution permits its customers to engage, either directly or through a subaccount, in banking activities usual in connection with the business of banking in the United States.
§ 589.329
Person.
The term
person
means an individual or entity.
§ 589.330
Production.
The term
production
as used in § 589.205 refers to the lifting of oil to the surface and the gathering, treating, field processing, and field storage of such oil. The production stage of a project ends when extracted oil is transported out of a field production storage tank or otherwise off a field
production site. The term
production
as used in § 589.205 does not apply to the provision by U.S. persons or within the United States of goods, technology, or services to persons determined to be subject to § 589.205 when such transactions relate only to the transportation, refining, or other dealings involving oil that has already been extracted from a deepwater project as defined in § 589.308, Arctic offshore project as defined in § 589.301, or shale project as defined in § 589.334, and transported out of a field production storage tank or otherwise off of a field production site.
§ 589.331
Property; property interest.
The terms
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
§ 589.332
Railway sector of the Russian Federation economy.
The term
railway sector of the Russian Federation economy
includes the following activities and items produced in, sold from, purchased in, transiting, or distributed in the Russian Federation: The procurement, design, manufacture, construction, maintenance, repair, refurbishment, assembly, sale, purchase, distribution, and transportation of trains, locomotives, rail cars, and other equipment used to transport passengers and goods via trains; any materials that are used to manufacture trains or other means necessary to move the trains, such as railway lines, equipment, engineering, mechanical, or electrical systems or methods, or technology; and any infrastructure or services used to support railway operations, such as passenger ticketing and on-board food sales or services.
§ 589.333
Russian person.
The term
Russian person
means an individual who is a citizen or national of the Russian Federation, or an entity organized under the laws of the Russian Federation.
§ 589.334
Shale projects.
The term
shale projects
as used in § 589.205 includes projects that have the potential to produce oil from resources located in shale formations as well as projects that have the potential to produce oil from resources located in fine-grained sedimentary rock formations including shale, limestone, dolomites, sandstones, and clay.
§ 589.335
Special Russian crude oil project.
The term
special Russian crude oil project
means a project intended to extract crude oil from:
(a) The exclusive economic zone of the Russian Federation in waters more than 500 feet deep;
(b) Russian artic offshore locations; or
(c) Shale formation located in the Russian Federation.
§ 589.336
Structured.
The term
structured,
with respect to a transaction, has the meaning given the term “structure” in 31 CFR 1010.100(xx) (or any corresponding similar regulation or ruling issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury).
§ 589.337
Transfer.
The term
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
§ 589.338
United States.
The term
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
§ 589.339
United States person; U.S. person.
The term
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
§ 589.340
U.S. depository institution.
The term
U.S. depository institution
means any entity (including its foreign branches) organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, or any agency, office, or branch located in the United States of a foreign entity, that is engaged primarily in the business of banking (for example, banks, savings banks, savings associations, credit unions, trust companies, and United States bank holding companies) and is subject to regulation by Federal or State banking authorities.
§ 589.341
U.S. financial institution.
The term
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
§ 589.342
U.S.-registered broker or dealer in securities.
The term
U.S.-registered broker or dealer in securities
means any U.S. citizen, permanent resident alien, or entity organized under the laws of the United States or of any jurisdiction within the United States (including its foreign branches), or any agency, office, or branch of a foreign entity located in the United States, that:
(a) Is a “broker” or “dealer” in securities within the meanings set forth in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(b) Holds or clears customer accounts; and
(c) Is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
§ 589.343
U.S.-registered money transmitter.
The term
U.S.-registered money transmitter
means any U.S. citizen, permanent resident alien, or entity organized under the laws of the United States or of any jurisdiction within the United States, including its foreign branches, or any agency, office, or branch of a foreign entity located in the United States, that is a money transmitter, as defined in 31 CFR 1010.100 and that is registered pursuant to 31 CFR 1022.380.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
§ 589.401
Reference to amended sections.
(a) Reference to any section in this part is a reference to the same as currently amended, unless the reference includes a specific date.
See
44 U.S.C. 1510.
(b) Reference to any ruling, order, instruction, direction, or license issued pursuant to this part is a reference to the same as currently amended unless otherwise so specified.
§ 589.402
Effect of amendment.
Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.
§ 589.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 589.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 589.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.
§ 589.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
(a) Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(1) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201; or
(2) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
(b) For example, a license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201, also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks, provided that such other persons are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201.
§ 589.405
Exportation and reexportation of goods, services, or technology; provision and receipt of services.
(a) The prohibition on the exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply of
goods, services, or technology contained in § 589.207 applies to services performed on behalf of a person in the Crimea region of Ukraine or where the benefit of such services is otherwise received in the Crimea region of Ukraine, if such services are performed:
(1) In the United States; or
(2) Outside the United States by a U.S. person.
(b) The prohibitions contained in § 589.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201; or
(2) With respect to property interests of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201.
(c) The prohibitions contained in § 589.201 apply to services received in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, where the service is performed by or at the direction of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201.
(d)(1) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to any person in the Crimea region of Ukraine or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201, or negotiate with or enter into contracts signed by a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201.
(2) For example, a U.S. person is engaged in a prohibited exportation of services to the Crimea region of Ukraine when it extends credit to a third-country firm specifically to enable that firm to manufacture goods for sale to the Crimea region of Ukraine.

# Note 1 to § 589.405:
See, for example,
§§ 589.506 and 589.508 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
§ 589.406
Offshore transactions involving blocked property.
The prohibitions in § 589.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property, as defined in § 589.303, apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States.
§ 589.407
Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.
Pursuant to § 589.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 589.407:
See also
§ 589.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
§ 589.408
Charitable contributions.
Unless specifically authorized by OFAC pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201. For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201 if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from such a person.
§ 589.409
Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.
The prohibition in § 589.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201.
§ 589.410
Setoffs prohibited.
A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. financial institution or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 589.201 if effected after the effective date.
§ 589.411
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked or who are subject to § 589.202, § 589.203, § 589.204, or § 589.205.
(a) Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).
(b) Persons subject to § 589.202, § 589.203, § 589.204, or § 589.205 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are also subject to § 589.202, § 589.203, § 589.204, or § 589.205, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Sectoral Sanctions Identifications List.
§ 589.412
Projects owned, or to which a majority of voting rights are held, by one or more persons subject to § 589.205.
The prohibitions in § 589.205(b) apply to projects owned 33 percent or more, or to projects in which a majority of voting interests are held, individually or in the aggregate, by one or more persons subject to § 589.205, their property, or their interests in property, including entities owned 50 percent or more by one or more persons subject to § 589.205.

# Example 1 to § 589.412:
If two entities that are each subject to § 589.205 each hold a 20 percent ownership interest in Project X, or together own a majority of the voting interests in Project X, then the prohibition in § 589.205(b) applies to Project X.
§ 589.413
Significant transaction(s); significant financial transaction(s).
In determining, for the purposes of §§ 589.201(a)(6)(vii) and 589.209, whether a transaction or a financial transaction is significant, the Secretary of the Treasury or the Secretary's designee will consider the totality of the facts and circumstances. As a general matter, some or all of the following factors may be considered:
(a)
Size, number, and frequency.
The size, number, and frequency of transaction(s) over a period of time, including whether the transaction(s) is increasing or decreasing over time and the rate of increase or decrease.
(b)
Nature.
The nature of the transaction(s), including the type, complexity, and commercial purpose of the transaction(s).
(c)
Level of awareness; pattern of conduct.
(1) Whether the transaction(s) is performed with the involvement or approval of management or only by clerical personnel; and
(2) Whether the transaction(s) is part of a pattern of conduct or the result of a business development strategy.
(d)
Nexus.
(1) For the purposes of § 589.201(a)(6)(vii), the proximity between the foreign person engaging in the transaction(s) and the person(s) subject to sanctions pursuant to the Support for the Sovereignty, Integrity, Democracy, and Economic Stability of Ukraine Act of 2014, as amended (22 U.S.C. 8901-8910) (SSIDES), the Ukraine
Freedom Support Act of 2014, as amended (22 U.S.C. 8921-8930) (UFSA), title II of the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (Pub. L. 115-44, 131 Stat. 886 (codified in scattered sections of 22 U.S.C.)) (CAATSA), and any covered Executive order, or any child, spouse, parent, or sibling of such an individual.
(2) For the purposes of § 589.209(b), the proximity between the foreign financial institution engaging in the transaction(s) and the person with respect to which sanctions are imposed under section 4 of UFSA.
(3) For the purposes of § 589.209(c), the proximity between the foreign financial institution engaging in the financial transaction(s) and the Russian person included on OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) as blocked pursuant to UFSA, E.O. 13660, E.O. 13661, E.O. 13662, or any other Executive order addressing the crisis in Ukraine.
(e)
Impact.
The impact of the transaction(s) on the objectives of UFSA, SSIDES, CAATSA, E.O. 13660, E.O. 13661, E.O. 13662, E.O. 13685, or any other Executive order issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13660.
(f)
Deceptive practices.
Whether the transaction(s) involves an attempt to obscure or conceal the actual parties or true nature of the transaction(s), or to evade sanctions.
(g)
Other relevant factors.
Such other factors that the Secretary of the Treasury or the Secretary's designee deems relevant on a case-by-case basis in determining the significance of a transaction(s).
(h)
Persons solely identified on the Sectoral Sanctions Identifications List (SSI List) or Non-SDN Menu-Based Sanctions List (NS-MBS List).
For the purposes of § 589.201(a)(6)(vii) and § 589.209(b), a transaction in which the person(s) subject to sanctions is only identified on the SSI List or the NS-MBS List must also involve deceptive practices, for example attempts to obscure or conceal the actual parties or true nature of the transaction(s), or to evade sanctions, to potentially be considered significant.
(i)
Applicability.
For the purposes of this part, a transaction is not significant if U.S. persons would not require a specific license from OFAC to participate in it.
§ 589.414
Facilitation; change of policies and procedures; referral of business opportunities offshore.
With respect to § 589.215, a prohibited facilitation or approval of a transaction by a foreign person occurs, among other instances, when a U.S. person:
(a) Alters its operating policies or procedures, or those of a foreign affiliate, to permit a foreign affiliate to accept or perform a specific contract, engagement, or transaction described in §§ 589.206 through 589.208 without the approval of the U.S. person, where such transaction previously required approval by the U.S. person and such transaction by the foreign affiliate would be prohibited by this part if performed directly by a U.S. person or from the United States;
(b) Refers to a foreign person purchase orders, requests for bids, or similar business opportunities involving a transaction described in §§ 589.206 through 589.208 to which the U.S. person could not directly respond as a result of the prohibitions contained in this part; or
(c) Changes the operating policies and procedures of a particular affiliate with the specific purpose of facilitating transactions that would be prohibited by this part if performed by a U.S. person or from the United States.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
§ 589.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Ukraine-/Russia-Related Sanctions page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.

# Note 1 to § 589.501:
Section 216 of the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (22 U.S.C. 9511) requires Congressional review prior to the issuance of a license that significantly alters the United States' foreign policy with regard to the Russian Federation.
§ 589.502
Effect of license or other authorization.
(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. Government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. Government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.
§ 589.503
Exclusion from licenses.
OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.
§ 589.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.

# Note 1 to § 589.504:
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 589.211
concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
§ 589.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.
(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
§ 589.506
Provision of certain legal services.
(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201, or to whom the provision of legal services would be prohibited by § 589.207, is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 589.507, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. Federal, State, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. Federal, State, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. Federal, State, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against the Crimea region of Ukraine; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201, or to whom the provision of legal services would be prohibited by § 589.207, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services.
See
§ 589.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 589.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
(e) All receipts of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section to or on behalf of a person in the Crimea region of Ukraine, or in circumstances in which the benefit is otherwise received in the Crimea region of Ukraine, other than those persons whose property and
interest in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201, are authorized, except that nothing in this section authorizes the debiting of any blocked account or the transfer of any blocked property.

# Note 1 to § 589.506:
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.
§ 589.507
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
(a)
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 589.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 589.506(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b)
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[87 FR 26099, May 2, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 103648, Dec. 19, 2024]
§ 589.508
Emergency medical services.
The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.
§ 589.509
Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.
Subject to the requirements of § 589.211, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 589.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (
e.g.,
through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201.
§ 589.510
Official business of the United States Government.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States
Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
§ 589.511
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities, by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing; and
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.
§ 589.512
Certain transactions related to derivatives prohibited by § 589.202, § 589.203, or § 589.204.
(a) All transactions by U.S. persons, wherever located, and transactions within the United States involving derivative products whose value is linked to an underlying asset that constitutes prohibited debt issued by a person subject to § 589.202, § 589.203, or § 589.204, or prohibited equity issued by a person subject to § 589.202, are authorized.
(b) This section does not authorize the holding, purchasing, or selling of underlying assets otherwise prohibited by § 589.202, § 589.203, or § 589.204 by U.S. persons, wherever are located, or within the United States.
§ 589.513
Exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical supplies, and replacement parts to the Crimea region of Ukraine.
(a)(1)
Agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical supplies.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, the exportation or reexportation, from the United States or by a U.S. person, wherever located, of agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical supplies to the Crimea region of Ukraine, or to persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to the Crimea region of Ukraine, and the conduct of related transactions are authorized.
(2)
Replacement parts.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the exportation or reexportation, from the United States or by a U.S. person, wherever located, of replacement parts for medical supplies exported or reexported pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and the conduct of related transactions are authorized, provided that such replacement parts are designated as EAR99, or, in the case of replacement parts that are not subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 744 (EAR), are not listed under any multilateral export control regime; and further provided that such replacement parts are limited to a one-for-one export or reexport basis (
i.e.,
only one replacement part can be exported or reexported to replace a broken or non-operational component).

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# ):
Related transactions in this paragraph include the making of shipping and cargo inspection arrangements, the obtaining of insurance, the arrangement of financing and payment, shipping of the goods, receipt of payment, and the entry into contracts (including executory contracts).
(b)(1)
Excluded persons.
Paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section do not authorize the exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical supplies, or replacement parts to military or law enforcement purchasers or importers.
(2)
Excluded agricultural commodities.
Paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not authorize the exportation or reexportation of the following items: Castor beans, castor bean seeds, certified pathogen-free eggs (unfertilized or fertilized), dried egg albumin, live animals (excluding live cattle), embryos (excluding cattle embryos), Rosary/Jequirity peas, non-food-grade gelatin powder, peptones and their derivatives, super absorbent polymers, western red cedar, or all fertilizers.
(3)
Excluded medicines.
Paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not authorize the exportation or reexportation of the following medicines: Non-NSAID analgesics, cholinergics, anticholinergics, opioids, narcotics, benzodiazapenes, and bioactive peptides.
(c)(1)
Other excluded items agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities do not include furniture made from wood; clothing manufactured from plant or animal materials; agricultural equipment (whether hand tools or motorized equipment); pesticides, insecticides, or herbicides; or cosmetics (unless derived entirely from plant materials).
(2)
Other excluded medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine does not include cosmetics.
(d) Nothing in this section relieves the exporter from compliance with the export license application requirements of another Federal agency.
(e) Nothing in this section authorizes the exportation or reexportation of any agricultural commodity, medicine, or medical device controlled on the United States Munitions List established under section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778); controlled on any control list established under the Export Administration Act of 1979 or any successor statute (50 U.S.C. App. 2401
et seq.
); or used to facilitate the development or production of a chemical or biological weapon or weapon of mass destruction.
(f) Nothing in this section affects prohibitions on the sale or supply of U.S. technology or software used to manufacture agricultural commodities, medicine, or medical devices, such as technology to design or produce biotechnological items or medical devices.
(g) Nothing in this section affects U.S. nonproliferation export controls, including the end-user and end-use controls maintained under Part 744 of the EAR, 15 CFR part 744.
(h) Nothing in this section authorizes any transaction or dealing with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to 31 CFR 536.201, 544.201, 594.201, 597.201, or 598.202, or with any foreign organization, group, or person subject to any restriction for its involvement in weapons of mass destruction or missile proliferation, or involving property blocked pursuant to this chapter or any other activity prohibited by this chapter not otherwise authorized in or pursuant to this part.
(i) Nothing in this section authorizes the exportation or reexportation of any agricultural commodity, medicine, or medical device that is not designated as EAR99 or, in the case of any agricultural commodity, medicine, or medical device not subject to the EAR, is not listed under any multilateral export control regime.
(j) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, and medical supplies are defined below.
(1)
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section,
agricultural commodities
are:
(i) In the case of products subject to the EAR, products that are designated as EAR99, and, in the case of products not subject to the EAR, products that are not listed under any multilateral export control regime, in each case that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) In the case of products subject to the EAR, products that are designated as EAR99, and in the case of products not subject to the EAR, products that are not listed under any multilateral export control regime, in each case that are intended for ultimate use in the Crimea region of Ukraine as: Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods, live animals, vitamins and minerals, food additives or supplements, and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds); seeds for food crops; fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals;
(2)
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section,
medicine
is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321) and that, in the case of an item subject to the EAR, is designated as EAR99 or, in the case of an item not subject to the EAR, is not listed under
any multilateral export control regime.
(3)
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a
medical device
is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321) and that, in the case of an item subject to the EAR, is designated as EAR99, or in the case of an item not subject to the EAR, is not listed under any multilateral export control regime.
(4)
Medical supplies.
For purposes of this section, the term
medical supplies
means those medical devices, as defined in paragraph (j)(3) of this section, that are included on the List of Medical Supplies on OFAC's website (
www.treas.gov/ofac
) on the Ukraine-/Russia-Related Sanctions page.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
j

# )(4):
The List of Medical Supplies is maintained on OFAC's website (
www.treas.gov/ofac
) on the Ukraine-/Russia-Related Sanctions page. The list will be published in the
Federal Register,
as will any changes to the list.
(k) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize the export or reexport of medical devices that are not medical supplies (and therefore not authorized pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section) to the Crimea region of Ukraine, or to persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to the Crimea region of Ukraine.
§ 589.514
Noncommercial, personal remittances to or from the Crimea region of Ukraine or for or on behalf of individuals ordinarily resident in the Crimea region of Ukraine.
(a)(1) U.S. persons are authorized to send and receive, and U.S. depository institutions, U.S.-registered brokers or dealers in securities, and U.S.-registered money transmitters are authorized to process transfers of, funds to or from the Crimea region of Ukraine or for or on behalf of an individual ordinarily resident in the Crimea region of Ukraine in cases in which the transfer involves a noncommercial, personal remittance, provided the transfer is not by, to, or through any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201.
(2) Noncommercial, personal remittances do not include charitable donations of funds to or for the benefit of an entity or funds transfers for use in supporting or operating a business, including a family-owned business.
(b) The transferring institutions identified in paragraph (a) of this section may rely on the originator of a funds transfer with regard to compliance with paragraph (a), provided that the transferring institution does not know or have reason to know that the funds transfer is not in compliance with paragraph (a).
(c) An individual who is a U.S. person is authorized to carry funds as a noncommercial, personal remittance, as described in paragraph (a) of this section, to an individual in the Crimea region of Ukraine or to an individual ordinarily resident in the Crimea region of Ukraine, other than an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant § 589.201, provided that the individual who is a U.S. person is carrying the funds on his or her behalf, but not on behalf of another person.
§ 589.515
Operation of accounts for individuals ordinarily resident in the Crimea region of Ukraine.
The operation of an account in a U.S. financial institution for an individual ordinarily resident in the Crimea region of Ukraine, other than an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked § 589.201, is authorized, provided that transactions processed through the account:
(a) Are of a personal nature and not for use in supporting or operating a business;
(b) Do not involve transfers, directly or indirectly, to the Crimea region of Ukraine or for the benefit of individuals ordinarily resident in the Crimea region of Ukraine unless authorized by § 589.514; and
§ 589.516
Transactions related to telecommunications and mail involving the Crimea region of Ukraine.
(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, all transactions with respect to the receipt and transmission of telecommunications involving the Crimea region of Ukraine
are authorized, provided that no payment pursuant to this section may involve any transaction with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201.
(2) This section does not authorize:
(i) The provision, sale, or lease of telecommunications equipment or technology; or
(ii) The provision, sale, or lease of capacity on telecommunications transmission facilities (such as satellite or terrestrial network activity).
(b) All transactions of common carriers incident to the receipt or transmission of mail and packages between the United States and the Crimea region of Ukraine are authorized, provided that the importation or exportation of such mail and packages is exempt from or authorized pursuant to this part.
§ 589.517
Exportation of certain services and software incident to internet-based communications to the Crimea Region of Ukraine.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, to persons in the Crimea region of Ukraine of services incident to the exchange of personal communications over the internet, such as instant messaging, chat and email, social networking, sharing of photos and movies, web browsing, and blogging, is authorized, provided that such services are widely available to the public at no cost to the user.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, to persons in the Crimea region of Ukraine of software necessary to enable the services described in paragraph (a) of this section is authorized, provided that such software is designated EAR99 under the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774 (EAR), or is classified by the Department of Commerce as mass market software under export control classification number (ECCN) 5D992 of the EAR, and provided further that such software is widely available to the public at no cost to the user.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, to persons in the Crimea region of Ukraine of software that is not subject to the EAR because it is of foreign origin and is located outside the United States that is necessary to enable the services described in paragraph (a) of this section is authorized, provided that such software is not listed under any multilateral export control regime, or would meet the criteria for classification under ECCN 5D992 of the EAR if it were subject to the EAR, and provided further that such software is widely available to the public at no cost to the user.
(d) This section does not authorize:
(1) The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, of services or software with knowledge or reason to know that such services or software are intended for any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201.
(2) The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, of any goods or technology listed on the Commerce Control List in the EAR, 15 CFR part 774, supplement No. 1 (CCL), except for software necessary to enable the services described in paragraph (a) of this section that is classified by the Department of Commerce as mass market software under ECCN 5D992 of the EAR;
(3) The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, of commercial-grade internet connectivity services or telecommunications transmission facilities (such as dedicated satellite links or dedicated lines that include quality of service guarantees); or
(4) The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, of web-hosting services that are for commercial endeavors or of domain name registration services.
(e) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis for the exportation or reexportation of services or software incident to the exchange of personal communications over the internet not specified in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, and for the exportation or
reexportation of hardware incident to the exchange of personal communications over the internet.
§ 589.518
Transactions necessary and ordinarily incident to publishing in the Crimea region of Ukraine.
(a) To the extent that such activities are not exempt from this part, and subject to the restrictions set forth in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, U.S. persons are authorized to engage in all transactions necessary and ordinarily incident to the publishing and marketing of manuscripts, books, journals, and newspapers in paper or electronic format (collectively, “written publications”) involving the Crimea region of Ukraine. This paragraph does not apply if the parties to the transactions described in this paragraph include any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201. Pursuant to this section, the following activities are authorized, provided that U.S. persons ensure that they are not engaging, without separate authorization, in the activities identified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section:
(1) Commissioning and making advance payments for identifiable written publications not yet in existence, to the extent consistent with industry practice;
(2) Collaborating on the creation and enhancement of written publications;
(3)(i) Augmenting written publications through the addition of items such as photographs, artwork, translation, explanatory text, and, for a written publication in electronic format, the addition of embedded software necessary for reading, browsing, navigating, or searching the written publication;
(ii) Exporting embedded software necessary for reading, browsing, navigating, or searching a written publication in electronic format, provided that, to the extent authorization is required under the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774 (EAR), the exportation is licensed or otherwise authorized by the Department of Commerce under the provisions of the EAR;
(4) Substantive editing of written publications;
(5) Payment of royalties for written publications;
(6) Creating or undertaking a marketing campaign to promote a written publication; and
(7) Other transactions necessary and ordinarily incident to the publishing and marketing of written publications as described in this paragraph (a).
(b) This section does not authorize transactions involving the provision of goods or services not necessary and ordinarily incident to the publishing and marketing of written publications as described in paragraph (a) of this section. For example, this section does not authorize persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States:
(1) To provide or receive individualized or customized services (including, but not limited to, accounting, legal, design, or consulting services), other than those necessary and ordinarily incident to the publishing and marketing of written publications, even though such individualized or customized services are delivered through the use of information and informational materials;
(2) To create or undertake for any person a marketing campaign with respect to any service or product other than a written publication, or to create or undertake a marketing campaign of any kind;
(3) To engage in the exportation or importation of goods to or from the Crimea region of Ukraine other than the exportation of embedded software described in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section; or
(4) To operate a publishing house, sales outlet, or other office in the Crimea region of Ukraine.
(c) This section does not authorize U.S. persons to engage the services of publishing houses or translators in the Crimea region of Ukraine unless such activity is primarily for the dissemination of written publications in the Crimea region of Ukraine.
(d) This section does not authorize:
(1) The exportation from or the importation into the United States of services for the development, production, or design of software;
(2) Transactions for the development, production, design, or marketing of technology specifically controlled by
the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, 22 CFR parts 120 through 130 (ITAR), the EAR, or the Department of Energy Regulations set forth at 10 CFR part 810.
(3) The exportation of information or technology subject to the authorization requirements of 10 CFR part 810, or Restricted Data as defined in section 11 y. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, or of other information, data, or technology the release of which is controlled under the Atomic Energy Act and regulations therein;
(4) The exportation of any item (including information) subject to the EAR where a U.S. person knows or has reason to know that the item will be used, directly or indirectly, with respect to certain nuclear, missile, chemical, or biological weapons or nuclear-maritime end-uses as set forth in part 744 of the EAR. In addition, U.S. persons are precluded from exporting any item subject to the EAR to certain restricted end-users, as set forth in part 744 of the EAR, as well as certain persons whose export privileges have been denied pursuant to parts 764 or 766 of the EAR, without authorization from the Department of Commerce; or
(5) The exportation of information subject to licensing requirements under the ITAR, or exchanges of information that are subject to regulation by other government agencies.
§ 589.519
Emergency landings and air ambulance services in the Crimea region of Ukraine.
(a) The receipt of, and payment of charges for, services rendered in connection with emergency landings in the Crimea region of Ukraine by aircraft registered in the United States or owned or controlled by, or chartered to, persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction that would be prohibited by § 589.206, § 589.207, or § 589.208 are authorized.
(b) U.S. persons are authorized to engage in all transactions prohibited by § 589.206, § 589.207, or § 589.208 that are necessary to provide air ambulance and related medical services, including medical evacuation from the Crimea region of Ukraine, for individuals in the Crimea region of Ukraine.
§ 589.520
Certain transactions in support of nongovernmental organizations' activities in the Crimea region of Ukraine.
Nongovernmental organizations are authorized to export or reexport services to the Crimea region of Ukraine that would be prohibited by § 589.207 in support of the following not-for-profit activities:
(a) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs in the Crimea region of Ukraine, including drought and flood relief; food, nutrition, and medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable populations, including individuals with disabilities; and environmental programs;
(b) Activities to support democracy building in the Crimea region of Ukraine, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability, universal human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(c) Activities to support education in the Crimea region of Ukraine, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(d) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting the Crimean people, including preventing infectious disease and promoting maternal/child health, and clean water assistance; and
(e) Activities to support environmental protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage.
[87 FR 26099, May 2, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 67557, Aug. 21, 2024]
§ 589.521
Transactions related to closing a correspondent or payable-through account.
(a) During the 10-day period beginning on the effective date of the prohibition in § 589.209 on the opening and the prohibition or imposition of one or more strict conditions on the maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a foreign financial institution listed on the List
of Foreign Financial Institutions Subject to Correspondent Account or Payable-Through Account Sanctions (CAPTA List), U.S. financial institutions that maintain correspondent accounts or payable-through accounts for the foreign financial institution are authorized to:
(1) Process only those transactions through the account, or permit the foreign financial institution to execute only those transactions through the account, that are for the purpose of, and necessary for, closing the account; and
(2) Transfer the funds remaining in the correspondent account or the payable-through account to an account of the foreign financial institution located outside of the United States and close the correspondent account or the payable-through account.
(b) A report must be filed with OFAC within 30 days of the closure of an account, providing full details on the closing of each correspondent account or payable-through account maintained by a U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution whose name is added to the CAPTA List. Such report must include complete information on the closing of the account and on all transactions processed or executed through the account pursuant to this section, including the account outside of the United States to which funds remaining in the account were transferred. The reports, which must reference this section, are to be submitted to OFAC using one of the following methods:
(1)
Email (preferred method): OFACReport@treasury.gov
; or
(2)
U.S. mail:
Attention: Enforcement Division, Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Freedman's Bank Building, Washington, DC 20220.
(c) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize transactions outside the scope or time period authorized in paragraph (a) of this section by a U.S. financial institution with respect to a correspondent account or a payable-through account maintained by the U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution whose name is added to the CAPTA List. License applications should be filed in conformance with § 501.801 of the Reporting, Procedures and Penalties Regulations, 31 CFR part 501.
(d) Nothing in this section authorizes the opening of a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a foreign financial institution whose name appears on the CAPTA List.

# Note 1 to § 589.521:
This section does not authorize a U.S. financial institution to unblock property or interests in property, or to engage in any transaction or dealing in property or interests in property, blocked pursuant to any other part of this chapter in the process of closing a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a foreign financial institution whose name has been added to the CAPTA List.
See
§ 589.101.
[87 FR 58996, Sept. 29, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]

# Subpart F—Reports
§ 589.601
Records and reports.
For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation
§ 589.701
Penalties.
(a) Section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (IEEPA) is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) IEEPA provides for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is
the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b)(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[87 FR 26099, May 2, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 2234, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2144, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3693, Jan. 15, 2025]
§ 589.702
Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.
(a)
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b)
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2)
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i)
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii)
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3)
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement
Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d)
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e)
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[87 FR 58996, Sept. 29, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 15743, Mar. 5, 2024]
§ 589.703
Penalty imposition.
If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
§ 589.704
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.
In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a Federal district court.
§ 589.705
Findings of Violation.
(a)
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
);
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b)
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2)
Deadline for response; default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
(i)
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or
dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii)
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3)
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4)
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c)
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
(2)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# )(2):
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d)
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[87 FR 58996, Sept. 29, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 15743, Mar. 5, 2024]

# Subpart H—Procedures
§ 589.801
Procedures.
For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
§ 589.802
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.
Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 13660 of March 6, 2014, E.O. 13661 of March 16, 2014, E.O. 13662 of March 20, 2014, E.O. 13685 of December 19, 2014, E.O. 13849 of September 20, 2018, and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13660, and
any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Presidential Memorandum of September 29, 2017: Delegation of Certain Functions and Authorities under the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act of 2017, the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014, and the Support for the Sovereignty, Integrity, Democracy, and Economic Stability of Ukraine Act of 2014, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
§ 589.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
Pt. 590

# PART 590—TRANSNATIONAL CRIMINAL ORGANIZATIONS SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
Sec.
590.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
590.201
Prohibited transactions.
590.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
590.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
590.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.
590.205
Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.
590.206
Exempt transactions.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
590.300
Applicability of definitions.
590.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
590.302
Effective date.
590.303
Entity.
590.304
Financial, material, or technological support.
590.305
Foreign person.
590.306
[Reserved]
590.307
Interest.
590.308
Licenses; general and specific.
590.309
OFAC.
590.310
Person.
590.311
Property; property interest.
590.312
Significant transnational criminal organization.
590.313
Transfer.
590.314
United States.
590.315
United States person; U.S. person.
590.316
U.S. financial institution.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
590.401
Reference to amended sections.
590.402
Effect of amendment.
590.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
590.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
590.405
Provision and receipt of services.
590.406
Offshore transactions involving blocked property.
590.407
Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.
590.408
Charitable contributions.
590.409
Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.
590.410
Setoffs prohibited.
590.411
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
590.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
590.502
Effect of license or other authorization.
590.503
Exclusion from licenses.
590.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
590.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.
590.506
Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.
590.507
Provision of certain legal services.
590.508
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
590.509
Emergency medical services.
590.510
Official business of the United States Government.
590.511
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
590.512
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
590.513
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

# Subpart F—Reports
590.601
Records and reports.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation
590.701
Penalties.
590.702
Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.
590.703
Penalty imposition.
590.704
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.
590.705
Findings of Violation.

# Subpart H—Procedures
590.801
Procedures.
590.802
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
590.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13581, 76 FR 44757, 3 CFR, 2011 Comp., p. 260; E.O. 13863, 84 FR 10255, 3 CFR, 2019 Comp., p. 267.

# Source:
87 FR 3209, Jan. 21, 2022, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
§ 590.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
§ 590.201
Prohibited transactions.
(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(1) The persons listed in the Annex to E.O. 13581 of July 24, 2011;
(2) Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of State:
(i) To be a foreign person that constitutes a significant transnational criminal organization;
(ii) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; or
(iii) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this part, any dealing in securities (or evidence thereof) held within the
possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
(e) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any Executive order issued after March 15, 2019 pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13581 of July 24, 2011, are prohibited pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 590.201.
The names of persons listed in, or designated or identified pursuant to, E.O. 13581; E.O. 13581, as amended by E.O. 13863 of March 15, 2019 (“amended E.O. 13581”); or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13581, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: For E.O. 13581 or amended E.O. 13581: “[TCO]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13581: Using the identifier formulation “[TCO-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 590.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.

# Note 2 to § 590.201.
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: For E.O. 13581 or amended E.O. 13581: “[BPI-TCO]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13581: Using the identifier formulation “[BPI-TCO-[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”

# Note 3 to § 590.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.

# Note 4 to § 590.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
[87 FR 3209, Jan. 21, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 75967, Sept. 17, 2024]
§ 590.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part,
and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 590.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 590.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 590.201.
§ 590.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 590.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For the purposes of this section, the term
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For the purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For the purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 590.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 590.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds blocked pursuant to § 590.201 may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.
§ 590.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.
(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 590.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 590.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.
§ 590.205
Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.
(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
§ 590.206
Exempt transactions.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
§ 590.300
Applicability of definitions.
The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.
§ 590.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
The terms
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 590.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or
other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.

# Note 1 to § 590.301.
See
§ 590.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201.
§ 590.302
Effective date.
(a) The term
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(1) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201(a)(1), 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time July 25, 2011; and
(2) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 590.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section,
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.
§ 590.303
Entity.
The term
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
§ 590.304
Financial, material, or technological support.
The term
financial, material, or technological support,
as used in this part, means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
§ 590.305
Foreign person.
The term
foreign person
means any citizen or national of a foreign state, or any entity organized under the laws of a foreign state or existing in a foreign state, including any such individual or entity who is also a United States person.
§ 590.306
[Reserved]
§ 590.307
Interest.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
§ 590.308
Licenses; general and specific.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
(c) The term
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.

# Note 1 to § 590.306.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
§ 590.309
OFAC.
The term
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
§ 590.310
Person.
The term
person
means an individual or entity.
§ 590.311
Property; property interest.
The terms
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes,
guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
§ 590.312
Significant transnational criminal organization.
The term
significant transnational criminal organization
means a group of persons that includes one or more foreign persons; that engages in or facilitates an ongoing pattern of serious criminal activity involving the jurisdictions of at least two foreign states, or one foreign state and the United States; and that threatens the national security, foreign policy, or economy of the United States.
§ 590.313
Transfer.
The term
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
§ 590.314
United States.
The term
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
§ 590.315
United States person; U.S. person.
The term
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
§ 590.316
U.S. financial institution.
The term
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or other extensions of credit, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies,
employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
§ 590.401
Reference to amended sections.
(a) Reference to any section in this part is a reference to the same as currently amended, unless the reference includes a specific date.
See
44 U.S.C. 1510.
(b) Reference to any ruling, order, instruction, direction, or license issued pursuant to this part is a reference to the same as currently amended unless otherwise so specified.
§ 590.402
Effect of amendment.
Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.
§ 590.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 590.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 590.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.
§ 590.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
(a) Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(1) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201; or
(2) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
(b) For example, a license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201, also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks, provided that such other persons are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201.
§ 590.405
Provision and receipt of services.
(a) The prohibitions contained in § 590.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201; or
(2) With respect to property interests of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201.
(b) The prohibitions on transactions contained in § 590.201 apply to services received in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, where the service is performed by or at the direction of, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201.
(c) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201, or negotiate with or enter into contracts signed by a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201.

# Note 1 to § 590.405.
See
§§ 590.507 and 590.509 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
§ 590.406
Offshore transactions involving blocked property.
The prohibitions in § 590.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property, as defined in § 590.301, apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States.
§ 590.407
Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.
Pursuant to § 590.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 590.407.
See also
§ 590.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
§ 590.408
Charitable contributions.
Unless specifically authorized by OFAC pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201. For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201 if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from such a person.
§ 590.409
Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.
The prohibition in § 590.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201.
§ 590.410
Setoffs prohibited.
A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. financial institution or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 590.201 if effected after the effective date.
§ 590.411
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.
Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into
OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
§ 590.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Transnational Criminal Organizations sanctions page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
§ 590.502
Effect of license or other authorization.
(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. Government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. Government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.
§ 590.503
Exclusion from licenses.
OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.
§ 590.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account
on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.

# Note 1 to § 590.504.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 590.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
§ 590.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.
(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
§ 590.506
Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.
Subject to the requirements of § 590.203, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 590.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (
e.g.,
through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201.
§ 590.507
Provision of certain legal services.
(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 590.508, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201, not otherwise authorized in this part,
requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services.
See
§ 590.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 590.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 590.507.
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.
§ 590.508
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
(a)
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 590.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 590.507(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b)
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[87 FR 3209, Jan. 21, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 103648, Dec. 19, 2024]
§ 590.509
Emergency medical services.
The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.
§ 590.510
Official business of the United States Government.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
§ 590.511
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities
by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing; and
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.
§ 590.512
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.

# Note 1 to § 590.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78503, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 590.513
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.
(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1)
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2)
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3)
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).

# Note 1 to § 590.513.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78504, Dec. 21, 2022]

# Subpart F—Reports
§ 590.601
Records and reports.
For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation
§ 590.701
Penalties.
(a) Section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (IEEPA) is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) IEEPA provides for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b)(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[87 FR 3209, Jan. 21, 2022, as amended at 87 FR 7373, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2234, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2144, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3693, Jan. 15, 2025]
§ 590.702
Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.
(a)
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b)
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2)
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i)
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii)
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3)
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d)
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e)
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[87 FR 58996, Sept. 29, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 15743, Mar. 5, 2024]
§ 590.703
Penalty imposition.
If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
§ 590.704
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.
In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.
§ 590.705
Findings of Violation.
(a)
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
);
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b)
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2)
Deadline for response; Default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(i)
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii)
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any
other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3)
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4)
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c)
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(2)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.

# Note 1 to paragraph (c)(2).
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d)
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[87 FR 58996, Sept. 29, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 15743, Mar. 5, 2024]

# Subpart H—Procedures
§ 590.801
Procedures.
For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
§ 590.802
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.
Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to E.O. 13581 of July 24, 2011, as amended by E.O. 13863 of March 15, 2019, and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13581, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
§ 590.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of
this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
Pt. 591

# PART 591—VENEZUELA SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
Sec.
591.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
591.201
Prohibited transactions.
591.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
591.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
591.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked property; liquidation of blocked property.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
591.300
Applicability of definitions.
591.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
591.302
Effective date.
591.303
Entity.
591.304
Financial, material, or technological support.
591.305
Interest.
591.306
Licenses; general and specific.
591.307
OFAC.
591.308
Person.
591.309
Property; property interest.
591.310
Transfer.
591.311
United States.
591.312
United States person; U.S. person.
591.313
U.S. financial institution.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
591.401
[Reserved]
591.402
Effect of amendment.
591.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
591.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
591.405
Setoffs prohibited.
591.406
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.
591.407
Settlement agreements and enforcement of certain orders through judicial process.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
591.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
591.502
[Reserved]
591.503
Exclusion from licenses.
591.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
591.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges authorized.
591.506
Provision of certain legal services authorized.
591.507
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
591.508
Authorization of emergency medical services.
591.509
Official business of the United States Government.
591.510
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
Subparts F-G [Reserved]

# Subpart H—Procedures
591.801
[Reserved]
591.802
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
591.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
Appendix A to Part 591—Executive Order 13692 of March 8, 2015

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 113-278, 128 Stat. 3011 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); E.O. 13692, 80 FR 12747, 3 CFR, 2015 Comp., p. 276; E.O. 13808, 82 FR 41155, 3 CFR, 2017 Comp., p. 377; E.O. 13827, 83 FR 12469, 3 CFR, 2018 Comp., p. 794; E.O. 13835, 83 FR 24001, 3 CFR, 2018 Comp., p. 817; E.O. 13850, 83 FR 55243, 3 CFR, 2018 Comp., p. 881; E.O. 13857, 84 FR 509, 3 CFR, 2019 Comp., p 251; E.O. 13884, 84 FR 38843, 3 CFR, 2019 Comp., p. 351.

# Source:
80 FR 39677, July 10, 2015, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
§ 591.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing
foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

# Note to § 591.101:
This part has been published in abbreviated form for the purpose of providing immediate guidance to the public. OFAC intends to supplement this part with a more comprehensive set of regulations, which may include additional interpretive and definitional guidance and additional general licenses and statements of licensing policy.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
§ 591.201
Prohibited transactions.
All transactions prohibited pursuant to Executive Order 13692 of March 8, 2015, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13692, are prohibited pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 591.201:
The names of persons designated pursuant to Executive Order 13692, or pursuant to any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13692, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the identifier formulation “[VENEZEULA-E.O. [E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 591.406 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.

# Note 2 to § 591.201:
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the identifier formulation “[BPI-VENEZEULA-E.O. [E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”

# Note 3 to § 591.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.

# Note 4 to § 591.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section.
[84 FR 64416, Nov. 22, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 75967, Sept. 17, 2024]
§ 591.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 591.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or property interest.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 591.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ) of § 591.202:
The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(e) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property and interests in property blocked pursuant to § 591.201.
§ 591.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 591.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term
blocked interest-bearing
account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally-insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is
the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 591.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraphs (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 591.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as chattels or real estate, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides immediate financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.
§ 591.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked property; liquidation of blocked property.
(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of physical property blocked pursuant to § 591.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 591.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
§ 591.300
Applicability of definitions.
The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.
§ 591.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
The terms
blocked account
and
blocked property
shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 591.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.

# Note 1 to § 591.301:
See § 591.406 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201.
[80 FR 39677, July 10, 2015, as amended at 87 FR 78480, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 591.302
Effective date.
The term
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(a) With respect to a person listed in the Annex to E.O. 13692 of March 8, 2015, 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, March 9, 2015; and
(b) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 591.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
§ 591.303
Entity.
The term
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
§ 591.304
Financial, material, or technological support.
The term
financial, material,
or technological
support
means any property, tangible or intangible, including but not limited to currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
[80 FR 39677, July 10, 2015, as amended at 84 FR 64417, Nov. 22, 2019]
§ 591.305
Interest.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
§ 591.306
Licenses; general and specific.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's Web site:
www.treasury.gov/ofac
.
(c) The term
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's Web site:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.

# Note to § 591.306:
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
§ 591.307
OFAC.
The term
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
§ 591.308
Person.
The term
person
means an individual or entity.
§ 591.309
Property; property interest.
The terms
property
and
property interest
include, but are not limited to, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
§ 591.310
Transfer.
The term
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without
limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, or filing of, or levy of or under, any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
§ 591.311
United States.
The term
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
§ 591.312
United States person; U.S. person.
The term
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
§ 591.313
U.S. financial institution.
The term
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, or commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
§ 591.401
[Reserved]
§ 591.402
Effect of amendment.
Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.
§ 591.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 591.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 591.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or other authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked
pursuant to § 591.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such a person has an interest and therefore blocked.
§ 591.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(a) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201; or
(b) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
§ 591.405
Setoffs prohibited.
A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 591.201 if effected after the effective date.
§ 591.406
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.
(a) Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).
(b) This section, which deals with the consequences of ownership of entities, in no way limits the definition of the Government of Venezuela in E.O. 13884, which includes within its definition other persons whose property and interests in property are blocked but who are not on the SDN List.
[87 FR 78480, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 591.407
Settlement agreements and enforcement of certain orders through judicial process.
Notwithstanding the existence of any general license issued under this part, or issued under any Executive order issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13692, the entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 591.201, as referenced in § 591.506(c), is prohibited unless authorized pursuant to a specific license issued by OFAC pursuant to this part.
[84 FR 64417, Nov. 22, 2019]

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
§ 591.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Venezuela sanctions page on OFAC's Web site:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
§ 591.502
[Reserved]
§ 591.503
Exclusion from licenses.
OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.
§ 591.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.

# Note to § 591.504:
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 591.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
§ 591.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges authorized.
(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, Internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
§ 591.506
Provision of certain legal services authorized.
(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201, is authorized, provided that receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be specifically licensed or otherwise authorized pursuant to § 591.507:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 591.201, is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.

# Note to § 591.506:
U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of a limited amount of blocked funds for the payment of legal fees where alternative funding sources are not available. For more information, see OFAC's
Guidance on the Release of Limited Amounts of Blocked Funds for Payment of Legal Fees and Costs Incurred in Challenging the Blocking of
U.S. Persons in Administrative or Civil Proceedings,
which is available on OFAC's Web site:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
[80 FR 39677, July 10, 2015, as amended at 84 FR 64417, Nov. 22, 2019]
§ 591.507
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
(a)
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 591.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 591.507(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has interest.
(b)
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[80 FR 39677, July 10, 2015, as amended at 84 FR 64417, Nov. 22, 2019, 89 FR 103649, Dec. 19, 2024]
§ 591.508
Authorization of emergency medical services.
The provision of nonscheduled emergency medical services in the United States to persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201, is authorized, provided that all receipt of payment for such services must be specifically licensed.
[80 FR 39677, July 10, 2015, as amended at 84 FR 64417, Nov. 22, 2019]
§ 591.509
Official business of the United States Government.
All transactions that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.

# Note 1 to § 591.509:
For additional information regarding requirements relating to the entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 591.201,
see
§ 591.407.
[84 FR 64417, Nov. 22, 2019]
§ 591.510
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
All transactions prohibited by Executive Order (E.O.) 13850, as amended by E.O. 13857 of January 25, 2019, involving Banco Central de Venezuela, or E.O. 13884 involving the Government of Venezuela, that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) Corporación Andina de Fomento (CAF)
(b) Fondo Latinoamericano de Reservas
(c) Inter-American Development Bank
(d) International Committee of the Red Cross
(e) International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies
(f) Organization of American States, and its specialized organizations, other autonomous and decentralized organs, agencies, entities, and dependencies
(g) The World Bank Group (also referred to as the World Bank), including the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), International Development Association (IDA), International Finance Corporation (IFC), Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA), and International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID)
(h) United Nations, including its Programmes and Funds, and its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations, including those entities specifically listed separately below:
(1) IMF (International Monetary Fund)
(2) FAO (UN Food and Agriculture Organization)
(3) IOM (International Organization for Migration)
(4) OCHA (UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs)
(5) OHCHR (UN Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights)
(6) UN Habitat
(7) UNDP (UN Development Program)
(8) UNFPA (UN Population Fund)
(9) UNHCR (Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees)
(10) UNICEF (UN Children's Fund)
(11) WFP (World Food Program)
(12) The World Health Organization (WHO), including the Pan-American Health Organization (PAHO)
[87 FR 78480, Dec. 21, 2022]
Subparts F-G [Reserved]

# Subpart H—Procedures
§ 591.801
[Reserved]
§ 591.802
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.
Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 13692 of March 8, 2015, Executive Order 13808 of August 24, 2017, Executive Order 13827 of March 19, 2018, Executive Order 13835 of May 21, 2018, Executive Order 13850 of November 1, 2018, Executive Order 13857 of January 25, 2019, Executive Order 13884 of August 5, 2019, and any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13692 of March 8, 2015, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.
[84 FR 64417, Nov. 22, 2019]

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
§ 591.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures (including those pursuant to statements of licensing policy), and other procedures,
see
§ 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
Pt. 591, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 591—Executive Order 13692

# Executive Order 13692 of March 8, 2015

# Blocking Property and Suspending Entry of Certain Persons Contributing to the Situation in Venezuela
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) (NEA), the Venezuela Defense of Human Rights and Civil Society Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-278) (the “Venezuela Defense of Human Rights Act”) (the “Act”), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)) (INA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
I, BARACK OBAMA, President of the United States of America, find that the situation in Venezuela, including the Government of Venezuela's erosion of human rights guarantees, persecution of political opponents, curtailment of press freedoms, use of violence and human rights violations and abuses in response to antigovernment protests, and arbitrary arrest and detention of
antigovernment protestors, as well as the exacerbating presence of significant public corruption, constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States, and I hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat. I hereby order:
Section 1. (a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(i) the persons listed in the Annex to this order; and
(ii) any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(A) to be responsible for or complicit in, or responsible for ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, or to have participated in, directly or indirectly, any of the following in or in relation to Venezuela:
(1) actions or policies that undermine democratic processes or institutions;
(2) significant acts of violence or conduct that constitutes a serious abuse or violation of human rights, including against persons involved in antigovernment protests in Venezuela in or since February 2014;
(3) actions that prohibit, limit, or penalize the exercise of freedom of expression or peaceful assembly; or
(4) public corruption by senior officials within the Government of Venezuela;
(B) to be a current or former leader of an entity that has, or whose members have, engaged in any activity described in subsection (a)(ii)(A) of this section or of an entity whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order;
(C) to be a current or former official of the Government of Venezuela;
(D) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of:
(1) a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or
(2) an activity described in subsection (a)(ii)(A) of this section; or
(E) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.
(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order.
Sec. 2. I hereby find that the unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in subsection 1(a) of this order would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and I hereby suspend entry into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, of such persons, except where the Secretary of State determines that the person's entry is in the national interest of the United States. This section shall not apply to an alien if admitting the alien into the United States is necessary to permit the United States to comply with the Agreement Regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into force November 21, 1947, or other applicable international obligations.
Sec. 3. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the type of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order.
Sec. 4. The prohibitions in section 1 of this order include but are not limited to:
(a) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and
(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.
Sec. 5. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 6. For the purposes of this order:
(a) the term “person” means an individual or entity;
(b) the term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;
(c) the term “United States person” means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States;
(d) the term “Government of Venezuela” means the Government of Venezuela, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the Central Bank of Venezuela, and any person owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of Venezuela.
Sec. 7. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.
Sec. 8. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA and section 5 of the Venezuela Defense of Human Rights Act, other than the authorities contained in sections 5(b)(1)(B) and 5(c) of that Act, as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order, with the exception of section 2 of this order, and the relevant provisions of section 5 of that Act. The Secretary of the Treasury may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of the United States Government consistent with applicable law. All agencies of the United States Government are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.
Sec. 9. The Secretary of State is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA, the INA, and section 5 of the Venezuela Defense of Human Rights Act, including the authorities set forth in sections 5(b)(1)(B), 5(c), and 5(d) of that Act, as may be necessary to carry out section 2 of this order and the relevant provisions of section 5 of that Act. The Secretary of State may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of the United States Government consistent with applicable law.
Sec. 10. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to determine that circumstances no longer warrant the blocking of the property and interests in property of a person listed in the Annex to this order, and to take necessary action to give effect to that determination.
Sec. 11. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit the recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 12. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
Sec. 13. This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on March 9, 2015.
Barack Obama
THE WHITE HOUSE,
March 8, 2015

# Annex
1. Antonio José Benavides Torres [Commander of the Central Integral Strategic Defense Region of the National Armed Forces, former Director of Operations for the National Guard; born June 13, 1961]
2. Gustavo Enrique González López [Director General of the National Intelligence Service and President of the Strategic Center of Security and Protection of the Homeland; born November 2, 1960]
3. Justo José Noguera Pietri [President of the Venezuelan Corporation of Guayana, former General Commander of the National Guard; born March 15, 1961]
4. Katherine Nayarith Haringhton Padron [National Level Prosecutor of the 20th District Office of the Public Ministry; born December 5, 1971]
5. Manuel Eduardo Pérez Urdaneta [Director of the National Police; born May 26, 1962]
6. Manuel Gregorio Bernal Martínez [Chief of the 31st Armored Brigade of Caracas, former Director General of the National Intelligence Service; born July 12, 1965]
7. Miguel Alcides Vivas Landino [Inspector General of the National Armed Forces, former Commander of the Andes Integral Strategic Defense Region of the National Armed Forces; born July 8, 1961]
Pt. 592

# PART 592—ROUGH DIAMONDS CONTROL REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
Sec.
592.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
592.201
Prohibited importation and exportation of any rough diamond; permitted importation and exportation of any rough diamond.
592.202
Evasions; attempts; conspiracies.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
592.301
Controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme.
592.302
Effective date.
592.303
Entity.
592.304
Exporting authority.
592.305
Importation into the United States.
592.306
Importing authority.
592.307
Kimberley Process Certificate.
592.308
Participant.
592.309
Person.
592.310
Rough diamond.
592.311
United States.
592.312
United States person; U.S. person.
592.313
Voided certificate.
592.314
Tamper-resistant container.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
592.401
Reference to amended sections.
592.402
Effect of amendment.
592.403
Transshipment or transit through the United States.
592.404
Importation into or release from a bonded warehouse or foreign trade zone.

# Subpart E—Records and Reports
592.501
Records and reports.

# Subpart F—Penalties
592.601
Penalties.
592.602
Pre-penalty notice; settlement.
592.603
Penalty imposition.
592.604
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.
592.605
Finding of violation.

# Subpart G—Procedures
592.701
Procedures.
592.702
Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.

# Subpart H—Paperwork Reduction Act
592.801
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 19 U.S.C. 3901-3913; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13312, 68 FR 45151, 3 CFR, 2003 Comp., p. 246.

# Source:
69 FR 56938, Sept. 23, 2004, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
§ 592.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
§ 592.201
Prohibited importation and exportation of any rough diamond; permitted importation or exportation of any rough diamond.
(a) Except to the extent provided in paragraph (b) of this section, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, the importation into, or exportation from, the United States on or after July 30, 2003, of any rough diamond, from whatever source, is prohibited, unless the rough diamond has been controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme.
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section regarding the importation into, or exportation from, the United States of any rough diamond not controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme do not apply to an importation from, or exportation to, any country with respect to which the Secretary of State has granted a waiver pursuant to section 4(b) of the Clean Diamond Trade Act (Pub. L. 108-19) and section 2(a)(i) of Executive Order 13312.

# Note to § 592.201.
An importation of any rough diamond from, or an exportation of any rough diamond to, a non-Participant is not controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme and thus is not permitted, except in the following circumstance. The Secretary of State may, pursuant to section 4(b) of the Clean Diamond Trade Act, waive the prohibitions contained in section 4(a) of that Act with respect to a particular country for periods of not more than one year each. The Secretary of State will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
identifying any country with respect to which a waiver applies and specifying the
relevant time period during which the waiver will apply.
§ 592.202
Evasions; attempts; conspiracies.
(a) Notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to July 30, 2003, any transaction by a United States person anywhere, or any transaction that occurs in whole or in part within the United States, on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to July 30, 2003, any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions of this part is prohibited.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
§ 592.301
Controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the term
controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme
refers to the following requirements that apply, as appropriate, to the importation into the United States from a Participant, or to the exportation from the United States to a Participant, of any shipment including any rough diamond:
(1)
Kimberley Process Certificate.
A shipment of rough diamonds imported into, or exported from, the United States must be accompanied by an original Kimberley Process Certificate. The certificate must be provided as follows:
(i) The original certificate must be presented immediately upon demand to U.S. Customs and Border Protection in connection with an importation or exportation of rough diamonds;
(ii) The person identified as the ultimate consignee (
see
Customs Directive 3550-079A) on the Customs Form 7501 Entry Summary or its electronic equivalent filed with U.S. Customs and Border Protection in connection with an importation of rough diamonds must retain the original Kimberley Process Certificate for a period of at least five years from the date of importation (see also 19 CFR 12.152);
(iii) The person identified as the ultimate consignee (
see
Customs Directive 3550-079A) on the Customs Form 7501 Entry Summary or its electronic equivalent filed with U.S. Customs and Border Protection in connection with an importation of rough diamonds must provide the certificate to the U.S. Bureau of the Census immediately after entry of the shipment in the United States. The certificate must be provided by faxing it to (800) 457-7328 or by other methods as permitted by the U.S. Bureau of the Census;
(iv) The U.S. Principal Party in Interest or U.S. authorized agent (see 15 CFR 30.1) must also provide the certificate to the U.S. Bureau of the Census immediately after export of the shipment of rough diamonds from the United States by faxing it to (800) 457-7328 or by other methods as permitted by the U.S. Bureau of the Census; and
(v) Any voided certificate(s) must be provided to the U.S. Bureau of the Census immediately upon voiding by faxing it to (800) 457-7328 or by other methods as permitted by the U.S. Bureau of the Census (
see
§ 592.313);
(2)
Tamper-resistance requirement.
A shipment of rough diamonds imported into, or exported from, the United States must be sealed in a tamper-resistant container;
(3)
Notification requirements for importations into the United States.
The person identified as the ultimate consignee (see Customs Directive 3550-079A) on the Customs Form 7501 Entry Summary or its electronic equivalent filed with U.S. Customs and Border Protection in connection with an importation of rough diamonds must report that person's receipt of a shipment of rough diamonds to the relevant foreign exporting authority within 15 calendar days of the date that the shipment arrived at the U.S. port of entry. The report must refer to the relevant Kimberley Process Certificate by its unique identifying number; specify the number of parcels in the shipment; specify the total carat weight of the shipment; and identify
the importer and exporter of the shipment. The report need not be in any particular form and may be submitted electronically or by mail or courier; and
(4)
Issuance of Kimberley Process Certificate for exportations from the United States.
Consistent with section 5(c) of the Clean Diamond Trade Act (CDTA), the Kimberley Process Certificate accompanying a shipment of rough diamonds exported from the United States must be issued by, or on behalf of, an entity whose standards, practices, and procedures are annually reviewed by the appropriate U.S. Government agency, and that has reached an arrangement with such agency concerning the issuance of Kimberley Process Certificates consistent with the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme and the CDTA.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(4):
As reflected in a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) among the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Bureau of the Census, and the U.S. Kimberley Process Authority (USKPA), a non-profit association, Kimberley Process Certificates for the exportation of rough diamonds from the United States may only be issued at this time by the USKPA or by entities licensed to do so by the USKPA. Pursuant to this MOU, the U.S. Department of State annually reviews the USKPA's standards, practices, and procedures. The Secretary of State may reassign this review function to any other officers, officials, departments, and agencies within the executive branch, consistent with applicable law.
(5)
Validation of Kimberley Process Certificate for exportations from the United States.
With respect to the validation of a Kimberley Process Certificate for the exportation of rough diamonds from the United States, exporters must:
(i) Report shipments to the U.S. Bureau of the Census through the Automated Export System (AES) or a successor system and obtain an Internal Transaction Number (ITN) prior to exportation. The ITN is the number generated by the AES and assigned to a shipment confirming that an Electronic Export Information (EEI) was accepted and is on file in the AES.
(ii) Report the ITN on the Kimberley Process Certificate accompanying any exportation from the United States, which completes the validation process for the exportation of rough diamonds from the United States to a Participant.
(b) The Secretary of State, consistent with section 3(2)(B) of the Clean Diamond Trade Act (Pub. L. 108-19), may modify the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section upon making a determination that a Participant has established an alternative system of control for rough diamonds that meets substantially the standards, practices, and procedures of the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme.

# Note 1 to § 592.301.
The Secretary of State will periodically publish in the
Federal Register
an up-to-date listing of all Participants and their importing and exporting authorities. Where appropriate, such listing also will describe any modification of the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.

# Note 2 to § 592.301.
Pursuant to 31 CFR §§ 501.601 and 501.602, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by § 592.501 apply to all U.S. persons engaged in the importation into, or exportation from, the United States of any shipment of rough diamonds.

# Note 3 to § 592.301.
Effective November 1, 2004, customs brokers, importers, and filers making entry of a shipment of rough diamonds must either submit through U.S. Customs' Automated Broker Interface (ABI) system the unique identifying number of the Kimberley Process Certificate accompanying the shipment or, for non-ABI entries, indicate the certificate number on the Customs Form 7501 Entry Summary at each entry line.

# Note 4 to § 592.301.
As of May 21, 2008, any diamond, regardless of value, that is described in subheadings 7102.10, 7102.21 or 7102.31, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States and is imported into the United States shall not be released from the custody of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) except by a formal entry for consumption, as defined in § 141.0a(f) of the CBP regulations. See 19 CFR 141.0a(f).
[69 FR 56938, Sept. 23, 2004, as amended at 73 FR 29433, May 21, 2008; 83 FR 28372, June 19, 2018]
§ 592.302
Effective date.
The term
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(a) With respect to all provisions of this part except for § 592.301(a)(3), 12:01 a.m., eastern daylight time, July 30, 2003; and
(b) With respect to § 592.301(a)(3), September 23, 2004.
§ 592.303
Entity.
The term
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, or other organization.
§ 592.304
Exporting authority.
(a) The term
exporting authority
means one or more entities designated by a Participant from whose territory a shipment of rough diamonds is being exported as having the authority to validate the Kimberley Process Certificate.
(b) The exporting authority for the United States is the U.S. Bureau of the Census.

# Note to § 592.304.
The Secretary of State will periodically publish in the
Federal Register
an up-to-date listing of the exporting authorities of all Participants.
§ 592.305
Importation into the United States.
The term
importation into the United States
means the bringing of goods into the United States.
§ 592.306
Importing authority.
(a) The term
importing authority
means one or more entities designated by a Participant into whose territory a shipment of rough diamonds is being imported as having the authority to enforce the laws and regulations of the Participant regulating imports, including the verification of the Kimberley Process Certificate accompanying the shipment.
(b) The importing authorities for the United States are the U.S. Bureau of Customs and Border Protection or, in the case of a territory or possession of the United States with its own customs administration, analogous officials.

# Note to § 592.306.
The Secretary of State will periodically publish in the
Federal Register
an up-to-date listing of the importing authorities of all Participants.
§ 592.307
Kimberley Process Certificate.
The term
Kimberley Process Certificate
means a tamper- and forgery-resistant document that bears the following information in any language, provided that an English translation is incorporated:
(a) The title “Kimberley Process Certificate” and the statement: “The rough diamonds in this shipment have been handled in accordance with the provisions of the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme for rough diamonds”;
(b) Country of origin for shipment of parcels of unmixed (
i.e.
, from the same) origin;

# Note to paragraph (
b

# ):
A shipment including a parcel of mixed-origin rough diamonds is to be entered into the United States with the Kimberley Process Certificate accompanying the shipment, and the certificate need not indicate the countries of origin of the diamonds. With respect to such a shipment, the country-of-origin field on the certificate must be filled in with asterisks. The shipment must, however, still comply with all other country-of-origin reporting requirements imposed by statute or regulation.
(c) Unique numbering with the Alpha 2 country code, according to ISO 3166-1;
(d) Date of issuance;
(e) Date of expiry;
(f) Name of issuing authority;
(g) Identification of exporter and importer;
(h) Carat weight/mass;
(i) Value in U.S. dollars;
(j) Number of parcels in the shipment;
(k) Relevant Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System; and
(l) Validation by the exporting authority.

# Note to paragraph (
l

# ):
See § 592.301(a)(4) for procedures governing the validation of the Kimberley Process Certificate when exporting from the United States.
§ 592.308
Participant.
The term
Participant
means a state, customs territory, or regional economic integration organization identified by the Secretary of State as one for which rough diamonds are controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme.

# Note to § 592.308.
The Secretary of State will periodically publish in the
Federal Register
an up-to-date listing of all Participants.
§ 592.309
Person.
The term
person
means an individual or entity.
§ 592.310
Rough diamond.
The term
rough diamond
means any diamond that is unworked or simply sawn, cleaved, or bruted and classifiable under subheading 7102.10, 7102.21, or 7102.31 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
§ 592.311
United States.
The term
United States,
when used in the geographic sense, means the several States, the District of Columbia, and any commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States.
§ 592.312
United States person; U.S. person.
The term
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen; any alien admitted for permanent residence into the United States; any entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including its foreign branches); or any person in the United States.
§ 592.313
Voided certificate.
The term
voided certificate
means a Kimberley Process Certificate intended to be used for the exportation of rough diamonds from the United States that has been cancelled for reasons such as loss or error.
[83 FR 28373, June 19, 2018]
§ 592.314
Tamper-resistant container.
The term
tamper-resistant container
means packaging having an indicator or barrier to entry that could reasonably be expected to provide visible evidence that tampering had occurred. Standard mailing and express consignment packaging, or such packaging that simply contains a resealable plastic bag, is not considered to be a
tamper-resistant container.
[83 FR 28373, June 19, 2018]

# Subpart D—Interpretations
§ 592.401
Reference to amended sections.
Except as otherwise specified, reference to any provision in this part or chapter or to any other regulation refers to the same as currently amended.
§ 592.402
Effect of amendment.
Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, or instruction issued by or under the direction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal suit or proceeding commenced or pending prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, or instruction continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.
§ 592.403
Transshipment or transit through the United States.
The prohibitions in § 592.201 apply to the importation into, or exportation from, the United States, for transshipment or transit, of any rough diamond intended or destined for any country other than the United States, unless the shipment is sealed in a tamper-resistant container, accompanied by a Kimberley Process Certificate, and leaves the United States in the identical state in which it entered. The validation, recordkeeping, and reporting procedures applicable to importations and exportations do not apply in this case.
§ 592.404
Importation into or release from a bonded warehouse or foreign trade zone.
The requirements of the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme apply to all imported shipments of a rough diamond, regardless of whether they are destined for entry into, or withdrawal from, a bonded warehouse or a foreign trade zone of the United States.

# Subpart E—Records and Reports
§ 592.501
Records and reports.
For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

# Subpart F—Penalties
§ 592.601
Penalties.
(a) Section 8 of the Clean Diamond Trade Act (the Act) (Pub. L. 108-19, 117 Stat. 631, 19 U.S.C. 3901-3913) provides that:
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 8 of the Act may be imposed on any person who violates, or attempts to violate, any order or regulation issued under the Act;
(2) The applicable maximum civil penalty per violation of the Act is $17,062.
(3) Whoever willfully violates, or willfully attempts to violate, any order or regulation issued under this Act shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $50,000, or, if a natural person, may be imprisoned for not more than 10 years, or both; and any officer, director, or agent of any corporation who willfully participates in such violation may be punished by a like fine, imprisonment, or both; and
(4) Those customs laws of the United States, both civil and criminal, including those laws relating to seizure and forfeiture, that apply to articles imported in violation of such laws shall apply with respect to any rough diamond imported in violation of the Act.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# ):
As reflected in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, section 8(a) of the Act establishes penalties with respect to any violation of any regulation issued under the Act. OFAC pre-penalty, penalty, and administrative collection procedures relating to such violations are set forth below in §§ 592.602 through 592.604. Section 8(c) of the Act also authorizes the U.S. Bureau of Customs and Border Protection and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, as appropriate, to enforce the penalty provisions set forth in paragraph (a) of this section and to enforce the laws and regulations governing exports of rough diamonds, including with respect to the validation of the Kimberley Process Certificate by the U.S. Bureau of the Census. The Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) civil penalty procedures set forth below are separate from, and independent of, any penalty procedures that may be followed by the U.S. Bureau of Customs and Border Protection and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement in their exercise of the authorities set forth in section 8(c) of the Act.
(b)
Adjustments to penalty amounts.
(1) The civil penalties provided in the Act are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in the Act are subject to increase pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device, a material fact, or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[69 FR 56938, Sept. 23, 2004, as amended at 81 FR 43076, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 10439, Feb. 10, 2017; 83 FR 11880, Mar. 19, 2018; 83 FR 28373, June 19, 2018; 84 FR 27718, June 14, 20194; 85 FR 19888, Apr. 9, 2020; 86 FR 14538, Mar. 17, 2021; 87 FR 7373, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2234, Jan. 13, 2023; 90 FR 3693, Jan. 15, 2025]
§ 592.602
Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.
(a)
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the Clean Diamond Trade Act, and determines that a civil monetary penalty is
warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b)
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2)
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i)
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii)
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3)
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d)
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e)
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[83 FR 28373, June 19, 2018, as amended at 89 FR 15743, Mar. 5, 2024]
§ 592.603
Penalty imposition.
If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
[83 FR 28374, June 19, 2018]
§ 592.604
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.
In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter
may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.
[83 FR 28374, June 19, 2018]
§ 592.605
Finding of violation.
(a)
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the Clean Diamond Trade Act;
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and,
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b)
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2)
Deadline for response; default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(i)
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii)
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3)
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4)
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c)
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC
will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(2)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# )(2):
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d)
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[83 FR 28374, June 19, 2018]

# Subpart G—Procedures
§ 592.701
Procedures.
For procedures relating to rulemaking and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
§ 592.702
Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.
Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 13312 (FR vol. 68, No. 147, July 31, 2003) and any further Executive orders relating to the Clean Diamond Trade Act (Pub. L. 108-19) may be taken by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

# Subpart H—Paperwork Reduction Act
§ 592.801
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of the information collections relating to the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of §§ 592.301(a)(1), subpart C, § 592.501, subpart E, and 592.603, subpart F,
see
§ 501.901 of this chapter. The information collection requirements in §§ 592.301(a)(3) and (a)(4), subpart C, have been approved by the OMB and assigned control numbers 1505-0198 and 0607-0152, respectively. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
Pt. 594

# PART 594—GLOBAL TERRORISM SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
Sec.
594.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
594.201
Prohibited transactions involving blocked property.
594.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
594.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
594.204
Prohibited transaction or dealing in property; contributions of funds, goods, or services.
594.205
Evasions; attempts; conspiracies.
594.206
Expenses of maintaining blocked property; liquidation of blocked property.
594.207
Exempt transactions.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
594.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
594.302
Effective date.
594.303
Entity.
594.304
Foreign person.
594.305
Information or informational materials.
594.306
Interest.
594.307
Licenses; general and specific.
594.308
Person.
594.309
Property; property interest.
594.310
Specially designated global terrorist; SDGT.
594.311
Terrorism.
594.312
Transfer.
594.313
United States.
594.314
U.S. financial institution.
594.315
United States person; U.S. person.
594.316
[Reserved]
594.317
Financial, material, or technological support.
594.318
Agency or instrumentality of a foreign state.
594.319
HAMAS.
594.320
Hizballah.
594.321
Knowingly.
594.322
Arms or related materiel.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
594.401
Reference to amended sections.
594.402
Effect of amendment.
594.403
Setoffs prohibited.
594.404
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
594.405
Transactions incidental to a licensed transaction.
594.406
Provision of services.
594.407
Offshore transactions.
594.408
Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.
594.409
Charitable contributions.
594.410
Credit extended and cards issued by U.S. financial institutions.
594.411
Palestinian Authority.
594.412
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations and Statements of Licensing Policy
594.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
594.502
Effect of license or authorization.
594.503
Exclusion from licenses and other authorizations.
594.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
594.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges authorized.
594.506
Provision of certain legal services authorized.
594.507
Authorization of emergency medical services.
594.508
Transactions related to telecommunications authorized.
594.509
Transactions related to mail authorized.
594.510
U.S. person employees of certain governments.
594.511
Travel, employment, residence and maintenance transactions with the Palestinian Authority.
594.512
Payment of taxes and incidental fees to the Palestinian Authority.
594.513
Transactions with entities under the control of the Palestinian President and certain other entities.
594.514
Concluding activities with the Palestinian Authority.
594.515
In-kind donations of medicine, medical devices, and medical services.
594.516
Transactions with the Palestinian Authority authorized.
594.517
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States and the formation of legal defense funds.
594.518
Official business of the United States Government.
594.519
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
594.520
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
594.521
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

# Subpart F—Reports
594.601
Records and reports.

# Subpart G—Penalties
594.701
Penalties.
594.702
Prepenalty notice.
594.703
Response to prepenalty notice; informal settlement.
594.704
Penalty imposition or withdrawal.
594.705
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

# Subpart H—Procedures
594.801
Procedures.
594.802
Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
594.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 22 U.S.C. 287c; 22 U.S.C. 9404-9411; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 114-102, 129 Stat. 2205, as amended (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); Pub. L. 115-348, 132 Stat. 5055 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); E.O. 13224, 66 FR 49079, 3 CFR, 2001 Comp., p. 786; E.O. 13268, 67 FR 44751, 3 CFR 2002 Comp., p. 240; E.O. 13284, 68 FR 4075, 3 CFR, 2003 Comp., p. 161; E.O. 13372, 70 FR 8499, 3 CFR, 2006 Comp., p. 159; E.O. 13886, 84 FR 48041, 3 CFR, 2019 Comp., p. 356.

# Source:
68 FR 34197, June 6, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
§ 594.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
§ 594.201
Prohibited transactions involving blocked property.
(a) Except as authorized by statutes, regulations, orders, directives, rulings, instructions, licenses or otherwise, and notwithstanding any contracts entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, property and interests in property of the following persons that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that hereafter come within the possession or control of U.S. persons, including their overseas branches, are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn or otherwise dealt in:
(1) Persons listed in the Annex to Executive Order (E.O.) 13224 of September 23, 2001, as amended;
(2) Foreign persons determined by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland Security:
(i) To have committed or have attempted to commit, to pose a significant risk of committing, or to have participated in training to commit acts of terrorism that threaten the security of U.S. nationals or the national security, foreign policy, or economy of the United States; or
(ii) To be a leader of an entity:
(A) Described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; or
(B) Whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to a determination by the Secretary of State pursuant to E.O. 13224, as amended;
(3) Persons determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Attorney General:
(i) To be owned, controlled, or directed by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section;
(ii) To own or control, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section;
(iii) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, an act of terrorism as defined in § 594.311, or any person whose property and interest in property are blocked pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section;
(iv) To have participated in training related to terrorism provided by any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section;
(v) To be a leader or official of an entity whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to:
(A) A determination by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section; or
(B) Paragraph (a)(4) of this section; or
(vi) To have attempted or conspired to engage in any of the activities described in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (a)(3)(v) of this section;
(4) Persons whose property and interests in property were blocked pursuant to E.O. 12947, as amended, on or after January 23, 1995, and remained blocked immediately prior to 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on September 24, 2001;
(5) Foreign persons that are identified on the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control as officials, agents, or affiliates of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC);
(6) Foreign persons determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to knowingly provide significant financial, material, or technological support for or to:
(i) Bayt al-Mal, Jihad al-Bina, the Islamic Resistance Support Association, the Foreign Relations Department of Hizballah, the External Security Organization of Hizballah, or any successor or affiliate thereof as designated by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State;
(ii) Al-Manar TV, al Nour Radio, or the Lebanese Media Group, or any successor or affiliate thereof as designated by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State;
(iii) A foreign person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to be engaged in fundraising or recruitment activities for Hizballah; or
(iv) A foreign person owned or controlled by a person described in paragraph (a)(6)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section;
(7) Agencies or instrumentalities of a foreign state determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to have, on or after October 25, 2018, knowingly:
(i) Conducted significant joint combat operations with, or significantly supported combat operations of, Hizballah; or
(ii) Provided significant financial support for or to, or significant arms or related materiel to, Hizballah;
(8) Foreign persons included on a list provided to Congress under paragraph (b) of Section 3 of the Sanctioning the Use of Civilians as Defenseless Shields Act of 2018 (Pub. L. 115-348) (Shields Act) because they have been determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, on or after December 21, 2018:
(i) To be a member of Hizballah or to be knowingly acting on behalf of Hizballah; and
(ii) To knowingly order, control, or otherwise direct the use of civilians protected as such by the law of war to shield military objectives from attack;
(9) Foreign persons included on a list provided to Congress under paragraph (b) of Section 3 of the Shields Act because they have been determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, on or after December 21, 2018:
(i) To be a member of HAMAS or to be knowingly acting on behalf of Hamas; and
(ii) To knowingly order, control, or otherwise direct the use of civilians protected as such by the law of war to shield military objectives from attack;
(10) Foreign persons, agencies, or instrumentalities of a foreign state, included on a list provided to Congress under paragraph (b) of Section 3 of the Shields Act because they have been determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, on or after December 21, 2018, to knowingly and materially support, order, control, direct, or otherwise engage in:
(i) Any act described in paragraph (a)(8)(ii) of this section by a person described in paragraph (a)(8) of this section; or
(ii) Any act described in paragraph (a)(9)(ii) of this section by a person described in paragraph (a)(9) of this section; or
(11) Foreign persons included on a list provided to Congress under paragraph (c) of Section 3 of the Shields Act because they have been determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, on or after December 21, 2018, to knowingly order, control, or otherwise direct the use of civilians protected as
such by the law of war to shield military objectives from attack, and with respect to which the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, has exercised the authority to block all property and interests in property.
(b) Unless otherwise authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this section, any dealing in any security (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of or known to be held for the benefit of any person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) is prohibited. This prohibition includes but is not limited to the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any such security or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on any such security. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such security may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the security.
(c) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to the importation of any goods that would otherwise be prohibited solely due to the interest of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked solely pursuant to paragraph (a)(6) or (7) of this section. For the purposes of this paragraph (c), the term “goods” means any articles, natural or manmade substance, material, supply or manufactured product, including inspection and test equipment, and excluding technical data.

# Note 2 to § 594.201:
The names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the Office of Foreign Assets Control's SDN List with the identifier “[SDGT].” Persons who have been identified by the Office of Foreign Assets Control as officials, agents, or affiliates of the IRGC are identified by a special reference to the “IRGC” at the end of their entries on the SDN List, in addition to the reference to this part. For example, an affiliate of the IRGC whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part will have the program tags “[SDGT] [IRGC]” at the end of its entry on the SDN List. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's website:
https://www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 594.412 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.

# Note 3 to § 594.201:
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 4 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-PA]” or “[BPI-SDGT].”

# Note 4 to § 594.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.

# Note 5 to § 594.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.

# Note 6 to § 594.201.
The prohibitions set forth in this part are separate from and in addition to other parts of 31 CFR chapter V, including but not limited to the Terrorism Sanctions Regulations (part 595), the Terrorism List Government Sanctions Regulations (part 596), and the Foreign Terrorist
Organizations Sanctions Regulations (part 597). The prohibitions set forth in this part also are separate and apart from the criminal prohibition, set forth at 18 U.S.C. 2339B, against providing material support or resources to foreign terrorist organizations designated pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended.
[68 FR 34197, June 6, 2003, as amended at 72 FR 4206, Jan. 30, 2007; 76 FR 38544, June 30, 2011; 78 FR 38575, June 27, 2013; 82 FR 50314, Oct. 31, 2017; 84 FR 35312, July 23, 2019; 87 FR 39338, July 1, 2022; 89 FR 15743, Mar. 5, 2024; 89 FR 75967, Sept. 17, 2024]
§ 594.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a), is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or property interests.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a), unless the person with whom such property is held or maintained, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, an appropriate license or other authorization issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, this part, and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property was held or maintained;
(2) The person with whom such property was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property was held or maintained filed with the Office of Foreign Assets Control a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other direction or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section have been satisfied.
(e) Except to the extent otherwise provided by law or unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property in which on or since the effective
date there existed an interest of a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a).
§ 594.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section, or as otherwise directed by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 594.201(a) shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally-insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(3) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to this paragraph (b) may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days. If interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(c) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 594.201(a) may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (b) or (d) of this section.
(d) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 594.201(a) may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(e) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as chattels or real estate, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property at the time the property becomes subject to § 594.201(a). However, the Office of Foreign Assets Control may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(f) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides immediate financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a), nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.
§ 594.204
Prohibited transaction or dealing in property; contributions of funds, goods, or services.
Except as otherwise authorized, no U.S. person may engage in any transaction or dealing in property or interests in property of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a), including but not limited to the following transactions:
(a) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a); and
(b) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a).
[78 FR 38575, June 27, 2013]
§ 594.205
Evasions; attempts; conspiracies.
(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, any
transaction by any U.S. person or within the United States on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, any conspiracy formed for the purpose of engaging in a transaction prohibited by this part is prohibited.
§ 594.206
Expenses of maintaining blocked property; liquidation of blocked property.
(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of physical property blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) may, in the discretion of the Director, Office of Foreign Assets Control, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.
§ 594.207
Exempt transactions.
The prohibitions contained in § 594.201(a)(6) and (7) do not apply to the following activities:
(a) Any authorized intelligence, law enforcement, or national security activities of the United States; or
(b) Any transaction necessary to comply with United States obligations under the Agreement between the United Nations and the United States of America regarding the Headquarters of the United States, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into force November 21, 1947, or the Convention on Consular Relations, done at Vienna April 24, 1963, and entered into force March 19, 1967, or any other United States international agreement.
[84 FR 35312, July 23, 2019]

# Subpart C—General Definitions
§ 594.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
The terms
blocked account
and
blocked property
shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibition in § 594.201 held in the name of a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a), or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to an authorization or license from the Office of Foreign Assets Control expressly authorizing such action.

# Note 1 to § 594.301.
See § 594.412 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201.
[68 FR 34197, June 6, 2003, as amended at 87 FR 78480, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 594.302
Effective date.
The term
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(a)(1) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a)(1) and who appeared on the Annex to E.O. 13224 as issued on September 23, 2001, 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, September 24, 2001;
(2) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a)(1) and who was added to the Annex to E.O. 13224 after September 23, 2001, the date the person was added to the Annex to E.O. 13224, as amended;
(b) With respect to a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a)(2) through (a)(11), the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to one or more of these sections.
(c) For the purposes of this section,
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.
[87 FR 39339, July 1, 2022]
§ 594.303
Entity.
The term
entity
means a partnership, association, corporation, or other organization, group, or subgroup.
§ 594.304
Foreign person.
The term
foreign person
means any citizen or national of a foreign state (including any such individual who is also a citizen or national of the United States), or any entity not organized solely under the laws of the United States or existing solely in the United States, but does not include a foreign state.
§ 594.305
Information or informational materials.
(a) For purposes of this part, the term
information or informational materials
includes, but is not limited to, publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# ):
To be considered information or informational materials, artworks must be classified under chapter heading 9701, 9702, or 9703 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
(b) The term
information or informational materials,
with respect to United States exports, does not include items:
(1) That were, as of April 30, 1994, or that thereafter became, controlled for export pursuant to section 5 of the Export Administration Act of 1979, 50 U.S.C. App. 2401-2420 (1979) (the “EAA”), or section 6 of the EAA to the extent that such controls promote the nonproliferation or antiterrorism policies of the United States; or
(2) With respect to which acts are prohibited by 18 U.S.C. chapter 37.
§ 594.306
Interest.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
interest
when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”) means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
§ 594.307
Licenses; general and specific.
(a) Except as otherwise specified, the term
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part.
(c) The term
specific license
means any license or authorization not set forth in subpart E of this part but issued pursuant to this part.

# Note to § 594.307:
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
§ 594.308
Person.
The term
person
means an individual or entity.
§ 594.309
Property; property interest.
The terms
property
and
property interest
include, but are not limited to, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future or contingent.
§ 594.310
Specially designated global terrorist; SDGT.
The term
specially designated global terrorist
or
SDGT
means any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a).
[78 FR 38575, June 27, 2013]
§ 594.311
Terrorism.
The term
terrorism
means an activity that:
(a) Involves a violent act or an act dangerous to human life, property, or infrastructure; and
(b) Appears to be intended:
(1) To intimidate or coerce a civilian population;
(2) To influence the policy of a government by intimidation or coercion; or
(3) To affect the conduct of a government by mass destruction, assassination, kidnapping, or hostage-taking.
§ 594.312
Transfer.
The term
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property and, without limitation upon the foregoing, shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
§ 594.313
United States.
The term
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
§ 594.314
U.S. financial institution.
The term
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. person (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent; including but not limited to, depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
§ 594.315
United States person; U.S. person.
The term
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
§ 594.316
[Reserved]
§ 594.317
Financial, material, or technological support.
The term
financial, material, or technological support,
as used in this part, means any property, tangible or intangible, including but not limited to currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of
value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
[74 FR 61037, Nov. 23, 2009, as amended at 87 FR 39339, July 1, 2022]
§ 594.318
Agency or instrumentality of a foreign state.
The term
agency or instrumentality of a foreign state
has the meaning given that term in section 1603(b) of title 28, United States Code.
[84 FR 35312, July 23, 2019]
§ 594.319
HAMAS.
The term
HAMAS
means:
(a) The entity known as HAMAS and designated by the Secretary of State as a foreign terrorist organization pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189); or
(b) Any person:
(1) The property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
); and
(2) Who is identified on the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) maintained by OFAC as an agent, instrumentality, or affiliate of HAMAS.

# Note 1 to § 594.319:
The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. Persons on the SDN List based on conduct described in § 594.201(a)(9), (10), (11) are identified by a special reference at the end of their entries on the SDN List—“[SHIELD-ACT]”—in addition to the reference to the regulatory part of this chapter pursuant to which their property and interests in property are blocked. For example, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the Global Terrorism Sanctions Regulations, § 594.201(a)(9), (10), or (11), and identified on the SDN List will have the program tag “[SDGT]” and “[SHIELD-ACT].”
[84 FR 35313, July 23, 2019]
§ 594.320
Hizballah.
The term
Hizballah
means:
(a) The entity known as Hizballah and designated by the Secretary of State as a foreign terrorist organization pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189); or
(b) Any person:
(1) The property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
); and
(2) Who is identified on the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) maintained by OFAC as an agent, instrumentality, or affiliate of Hizballah.

# Note 1 to § 594.320:
The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. Persons on the SDN List based on conduct described in § 594.201(a)(8), (10), and (11) are identified by a special reference at the end of their entries on the SDN List—“[SHIELD-ACT]”—in addition to the reference to the regulatory part of this chapter pursuant to which their property and interests in property are blocked. For example, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the Global Terrorism Sanctions Regulations, § 594.201(a)(8), (10), or (11), and identified on the SDN List will have the program tag “[SDGT]” and “[SHIELD-ACT]”. Persons on the SDN List based on conduct described in § 594.201(a)(6) and (7) are identified by a special reference at the end of their entries on the SDN List—“[HIFPAA]”—in addition to the reference to the regulatory part of this chapter pursuant to which their property and interests in property are blocked. For example, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the Global Terrorism Sanctions Regulations, § 594.201(a)(6) or (7), and identified on the SDN List will have the program tag “[SDGT]” and “[HIFPAA]”.
[84 FR 35313, July 23, 2019]
§ 594.321
Knowingly.
The term
knowingly,
with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result,
means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result.
[84 FR 35313, July 23, 2019]
§ 594.322
Arms or related materiel.
The term
arms or related materiel
means:
(a) Nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological weapons or materials or components of such weapons;
(b) Ballistic or cruise missile weapons or materials or components of such weapons; or
(c) Destabilizing numbers and types of advanced conventional weapons.
[84 FR 35313, July 23, 2019]

# Subpart D—Interpretations
§ 594.401
Reference to amended sections.
Except as otherwise specified, reference to any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or to any regulation, ruling, order, instruction, direction, or license issued pursuant to this part refers to the same as currently amended.
§ 594.402
Effect of amendment.
Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by or under the direction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal suit or proceeding commenced or pending prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.
§ 594.403
Setoffs prohibited.
A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under §§ 594.201 and 594.204 if effected after the effective date.
§ 594.404
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a), unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) or any other part of this chapter, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a), such property shall be deemed to be property in which that person has an interest and therefore blocked.
§ 594.405
Transactions incidental to a licensed transaction.
Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(a) An incidental transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a); or
(b) An incidental transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
§ 594.406
Provision of services.
(a) Except as provided in § 594.207, the prohibitions on transactions or dealings involving blocked property contained in §§ 594.201 and 594.204 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, including by an overseas branch of an entity located in the United States:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a); or
(2) With respect to property interests subject to §§ 594.201 and 594.204.
(b) Example: U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, educational, or other services to a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a).

# Note to § 594.406:
See §§ 594.506 and 594.507, respectively, on licensing policy with regard to the provision of certain legal or medical services.
§ 594.407
Offshore transactions.
The prohibitions in §§ 594.201 and 594.204 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property apply to transactions or dealings by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States with respect to property that the U.S. person knows, or has reason to know, is held in the name of a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) or in which the U.S. person knows, or has reason to know, a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) has or has had an interest since the effective date.
§ 594.408
Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.
Pursuant to §§ 594.201 and 594.204, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized pursuant to this part.
§ 594.409
Charitable contributions.
Unless specifically authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution or donation of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions or donations to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a). For the purposes of this part, a contribution or donation is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions or donations by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions or donations from any such person.
[78 FR 38575, June 27, 2013]
§ 594.410
Credit extended and cards issued by U.S. financial institutions.
The prohibitions in §§ 594.201 and 594.204 on engaging in transactions or dealings in property subject to those sections prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including, but not limited to, charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a U.S. financial institution to a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a).
§ 594.411
Palestinian Authority.
Following the January 2006 Palestinian elections, Hamas, a designated terrorist entity whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201, has been determined to have a property interest in the transactions of the Palestinian Authority. Accordingly, pursuant to §§ 594.201 and 594.204, U.S. persons are prohibited from engaging in transactions with the Palestinian Authority unless authorized. Certain transactions with the Palestinian Authority may be authorized by license, see subpart E of this part.
[71 FR 27200, May 10, 2006]
§ 594.412
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.
Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a
person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).
[87 FR 78481, Dec. 21, 2022]

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations and Statements of Licensing Policy
§ 594.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part.
[68 FR 53660, Sept. 11, 2003]
§ 594.502
Effect of license or authorization.
(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by or under the direction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of the license, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction or license is issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any provision of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such provision.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction otherwise prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property which would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
§ 594.503
Exclusion from licenses and other authorizations.
The Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control reserves the right to exclude any person, property, or transaction from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. The Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon all persons receiving actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.
§ 594.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) has any interest, that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution, must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may only be made to another blocked account held in the same name.

# Note to § 594.504.
Please refer to § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 594.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
§ 594.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges authorized.
(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term
normal service charge
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
§ 594.506
Provision of certain legal services authorized.
(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) is authorized, provided that all receipts of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be specifically licensed or otherwise authorized pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons when named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to domestic U.S. legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings;
(3) Initiation and conduct of domestic U.S. legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings in defense of property interests subject to U.S. jurisdiction;
(4) Representation of persons before any federal or state agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons;
(5) Representation of persons, wherever located, detained within the jurisdiction of the United States or by the United States government, with respect to either such detention or any charges made against such persons, including, but not limited to, the conduct of military commission prosecutions and the initiation and conduct of federal court proceedings; and
(6) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of legal services not otherwise authorized by paragraph (a) of this section to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) in connection with the initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency is authorized, provided that all receipts of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be specifically licensed.
(c) The provision of any other legal services to persons whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a), not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement affecting property or interests in property or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) is prohibited except to the extent otherwise provided by law or unless specifically licensed in accordance with § 594.202(e).
[68 FR 34197, June 6, 2003, as amended at 73 FR 78632, Dec. 23, 2008; 75 FR 75906, Dec. 7, 2010]
§ 594.507
Authorization of emergency medical services.
The provision of nonscheduled emergency medical services in the United States to persons whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) is authorized, provided that all receipt of payment for such services must be specifically licensed.
§ 594.508
Transactions related to telecommunications authorized.
All transactions ordinarily incident to the receipt or transmission of telecommunications involving persons whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) are authorized, provided that any payment owed to any such person is paid into a
blocked account in a U.S. financial institution. This section does not authorize the provision, sale, or lease to persons whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) of telecommunications equipment or technology; nor does it authorize the provision, sale, or leasing of capacity on telecommunications transmission facilities (such as satellite or terrestrial network connectivity).
§ 594.509
Transactions related to mail authorized.
All transactions by U.S. persons, including payment and transfers to common carriers, incident to the receipt or transmission of mail between a U.S. person and a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) are authorized, provided the mail is limited to personal communications not involving a transfer of anything of value and not exceeding 12 ounces in weight.
§ 594.510
U.S. person employees of certain governments.
Effective April 12, 2006, U.S. persons who are employees of the governments of states bordering the West Bank or Gaza are authorized to engage in all transactions and activities outside of the United States with the Palestinian Authority that are otherwise prohibited under this part in support of the U.S. persons' official duties, provided that no payment pursuant to this license may involve a debit to an account of the Palestinian Authority on the books of a U.S. financial institution or to any account blocked pursuant to this part.
[71 FR 27200, May 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 78481, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 594.511
Travel, employment, residence and maintenance transactions with the Palestinian Authority.
Effective April 12, 2006, U.S. persons are authorized to engage in all transactions with the Palestinian Authority otherwise prohibited under this part that are ordinarily incident to their travel to or from, or employment, residence or personal maintenance within, the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, including, but not limited to, receipt of salaries, payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use. Nothing in this license authorizes any debit to an account of the Palestinian Authority on the books of a U.S. financial institution or to any account blocked pursuant to this part.
[71 FR 27200, May 10, 2006]
§ 594.512
Payment of taxes and incidental fees to the Palestinian Authority.
Effective April 12, 2006, U.S. persons are authorized to pay taxes or fees to, and purchase or receive permits or public utility services from, the Palestinian Authority where such transactions are necessary and ordinarily incident to such persons' day-to-day operations. Nothing in this license authorizes a debit to an account of the Palestinian Authority on the books of a U.S. financial institution or to any account blocked pursuant to this part.
[71 FR 27200, May 10, 2006]
§ 594.513
Transactions with entities under the control of the Palestinian President and certain other entities.
(a) Effective April 12, 2006, U.S. persons are authorized to engage in all transactions otherwise prohibited under this part with the following entities and individuals:
(1) The Palestinian Authority Presidency, including only the Office of the President, Presidential Security, General Intelligence Apparatus, Governors and Governorate staff, the Attorney General's Office, the Palestine Investment Fund (PIF), the Border Crossings Administration, and the Palestine Broadcasting Corporation (including the Voice of Palestine, Wafa News Agency, and the General Public Information Agency/State Information Services);
(2) The Palestinian Judiciary, including the Higher Judicial Council;
(3) Members of the Palestinian Legislative Council (PLC) who were not elected to the PLC on the party slate of Hamas or any other Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO), Specially
Designated Terrorist (SDT), or Specially Designated Global Terrorist (SDGT); and
(4) The following independent agencies: The Central Elections Commission; the Independent Citizens Rights Commission; the General Audit Authority/External Audit Agency; and the Palestinian Monetary Authority.
(b) Effective April 12, 2006, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to reject transactions with members of the Palestinian Legislative Council (PLC) who were elected to the PLC on the party slate of Hamas or any other Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO), Specially Designated Terrorist (SDT), or Specially Designated Global Terrorist (SDGT), provided that any such individuals are not named on OFAC's list of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons.
(c) Nothing in this license authorizes a debit to an account of the Palestinian Authority on the books of a U.S. financial institution or to any account blocked pursuant to this part.
[71 FR 27200, May 10, 2006]
§ 594.514
Concluding activities with the Palestinian Authority.
Effective April 12, 2006, all transactions and activities with the Palestinian Authority otherwise prohibited under this part are authorized through May 12, 2006, provided that they are necessary to conclude ongoing contracts or programs with the Palestinian Authority, and further provided that no payment pursuant to this license may involve a debit to an account of the Palestinian Authority on the books of a U.S. financial institution or to any account blocked pursuant to this part.
[71 FR 27200, May 10, 2006]
§ 594.515
In-kind donations of medicine, medical devices, and medical services.
(a) Effective July 6, 2006, nongovernmental organizations that are U.S. persons are authorized to provide in-kind donations of medicine, medical devices, and medical services to the Palestinian Authority Ministry of Health, provided that such donations are strictly for distribution in the West Bank or Gaza and not intended for resale, and provided further that no payment pursuant to this license may involve a debit to an account of the Palestinian Authority on the books of a U.S. financial institution or to any account blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) For the purposes of this section only, the term medical device has the meaning given the term “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321), including medical supplies, but does not include any item listed on the Commerce Control List in the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR part 774, supplement no. 1.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# ):
Nongovernmental organizations that are interested in providing items listed on the Commerce Control List to the Palestinian Authority Ministry of Health must apply for a specific license from the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
[72 FR 58743, Oct. 5, 2006]
§ 594.516
Transactions with the Palestinian Authority authorized.
(a) As of June 20, 2007, U.S. persons are authorized to engage in all transactions otherwise prohibited under this part with the Palestinian Authority.
(b) For purposes of this section only, the term
Palestinian Authority
means the Palestinian Authority government of Prime Minister Salam Fayyad and President Mahmoud Abbas, including all branches, ministries, offices, and agencies (independent or otherwise) thereof.
[72 FR 61518, Oct. 31, 2007]
§ 594.517
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States and the formation of legal defense funds.
(a)
Payments from funds originating outside the United States.
(1) Effective December 7, 2010, receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 594.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201 are authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 594.506(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest or the receipt or payment of professional fees or reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 594.506(b).
(b)
Legal defense funds.
Effective December 7, 2010, U.S. persons that are attorneys, law firms, or legal services organizations are authorized to form legal defense funds from which payments of professional fees and reimbursement for expenses incurred in connection with the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 594.506(a) may be debited provided that:
(1) The legal defense fund must be held in a savings or checking account at a financial institution located in the United States;
(2) Prior to debiting the legal defense fund, the U.S. person responsible for establishing the legal defense fund must submit the following information to OFAC: a copy of a letter of engagement or a letter of intent to engage, specifying the services to be performed and signed by the individual to whom such services are to be provided, or, where services are to be provided to an entity, by a legal representative of the entity; the name of the individual or entity responsible for establishing the legal defense fund; the name of the financial institution at which the account for the legal defense fund will be held; a point of contact at the financial institution holding the account for the legal defense fund; and the account name and account number for the legal defense fund. The foregoing information must be accompanied by correspondence referencing this paragraph (b) and is to be submitted to OFAC at
OFACReport@treasury.gov
with this section number in the subject line.
(3) The legal defense fund may not receive funds from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201 or any other part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute; and
(4) The U.S. person responsible for establishing the legal defense fund must notify the financial institution at which the account for the legal defense fund is held that the account may only be debited to make payments of professional fees and reimburse expenses incurred in connection with the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 594.506(a).
(5) Nothing in this paragraph (b) authorizes the formation or debiting of legal defense funds in connection with the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 594.506(b).

# Note 1 to paragraph (
b

# ):
Any funds remaining in a legal defense fund account after all payments of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses authorized pursuant to this paragraph have been made or upon termination of the legal services for which payment is authorized pursuant to this paragraph are property in which the person to or on whose behalf the legal services were rendered has an interest and is subject to the prohibitions of this part. Persons in the possession or control of such remaining funds may apply for the unblocking of the funds by following the procedures set forth at § 501.801 of this chapter.
(c)
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[75 FR 75906, Dec. 7, 2010, as amended at 89 FR 103649, Dec. 19, 2024]
§ 594.518
Official business of the United States Government.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[87 FR 78481, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 594.519
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(1) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(2) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(3) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing; and
(4) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(5) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
(b) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
[87 FR 78481, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 594.520
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.

# Note 1 to § 594.520.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78504, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 594.521
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.
(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1)
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2)
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3)
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).

# Note 1 to § 594.521.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78505, Dec. 21, 2022]

# Subpart F—Reports
§ 594.601
Records and reports.
For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

# Subpart G—Penalties
§ 594.701
Penalties.
(a) Attention is directed to section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (the “Act”) (50 U.S.C. 1705), which is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the Act.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in Section 206 of the Act may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under the Act.
(2) The applicable maximum civil penalty per violation of the Act is the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, or willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, may be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b)
Adjustments to penalty amounts.
(1) The civil penalties provided in the Act are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in the Act are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Attention is directed to section 5 of the United Nations Participation Act (22 U.S.C. 287c(b)), which provides that any person who willfully violates or evades or attempts to violate or evade any order, rule, or regulation issued by the President pursuant to the authority granted in that section, upon conviction, shall be fined not more than $10,000 and, if a natural person, may also be imprisoned for not more than 10 years; and the officer, director, or agent of any corporation who knowingly participates in such violation or evasion shall be punished by a like fine, imprisonment, or both and any property, funds, securities, papers, or other articles or documents, or any vessel, together with her tackle, apparel, furniture, and equipment, or vehicle, or aircraft, concerned in such violation shall be forfeited to the United States. The criminal penalties provided in the United Nations Participation Act are subject to increase pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(d) Attention is also directed to 18 U.S.C. 1001, which provides that whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device, a material fact, or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned not more than five years, or both.
(e) Violations of this part may also be subject to relevant provisions of other applicable laws.
[68 FR 34197, June 6, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 29253, May 22, 2006; 73 FR 32656, June 10, 2008; 81 FR 43077, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 10439 Feb. 10, 2017; 83 FR 11880, Mar. 19, 2018; 84 FR 27718, June 14, 2019; 85 FR 19888, Apr. 9, 2020; 86 FR 14538, Mar. 17, 2021; 87 FR 7373, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2234, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2144, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3693, Jan. 15, 2025]
§ 594.702
Prepenalty notice.
(a)
When required.
If the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control has reasonable cause to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, and the Director determines that further proceedings are warranted, the Director shall notify the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty by issuing a prepenalty notice. The prepenalty notice shall be in writing. The prepenalty notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter.
(b)
Contents of notice
—(1)
Facts of violation.
The prepenalty notice shall describe the violation, specify the laws and regulations allegedly violated, and state the amount of the proposed monetary penalty.
(2)
Right to respond.
The prepenalty notice also shall inform the respondent of the respondent's right to make a written presentation within the applicable 30-day period set forth in § 594.703 as to why a monetary penalty should not be imposed or why, if imposed, the monetary penalty should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
(c)
Informal settlement prior to issuance of prepenalty notice.
At any time prior to the issuance of a prepenalty notice, an alleged violator may request in writing that, for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days, the agency withhold issuance of the prepenalty notice for the exclusive purpose of effecting settlement of the agency's potential civil monetary penalty claims. In the event the Director grants the request, under terms and conditions within their discretion, the Office of Foreign Assets Control will agree to withhold issuance of the prepenalty notice for a period not to exceed 60 days and will enter into settlement negotiations of the potential civil monetary penalty claim.
[68 FR 34197, June 6, 2003, as amended at 89 FR 15743, Mar. 5, 2024]
§ 594.703
Response to prepenalty notice; informal settlement.
(a)
Deadline for response.
The respondent may submit a response to the prepenalty notice within the applicable 30-day period set forth in this paragraph. The Director may grant, at their discretion, an extension of time in which to submit a response to the prepenalty notice. The failure to submit a response within the applicable time period set forth in this paragraph shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(1)
Computation of time for response.
A response to the prepenalty notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the prepenalty notice was mailed. If the respondent refused delivery or otherwise avoided receipt of the prepenalty notice, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date on the stamped postal receipt maintained at the Office of Foreign Assets Control. If the prepenalty notice was personally delivered to the respondent by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by the Director, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(2)
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the Director's discretion, only upon the respondent's specific request to the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
(b)
Form and method of response.
The response must be submitted in writing and may be handwritten or typed. The response need not be in any particular form. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to the Office of Foreign Assets Control Civil Penalties Division by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Contents of response.
A written response must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the prepenalty notice.
(1) A written response must include the respondent's full name, address, telephone number, and facsimile number, if available, or those of the representative of the respondent.
(2) A written response should either admit or deny each specific violation alleged in the prepenalty notice and also state if the respondent has no knowledge of a particular violation. If the written response fails to address any specific violation alleged in the prepenalty notice, that alleged violation shall be deemed to be admitted.
(3) A written response should include any information in defense, evidence in support of an asserted defense, or other factors that the respondent requests the Office of Foreign Assets Control to consider. Any defense or explanation previously made to the Office of Foreign Assets Control or any other agency must be repeated in the written response. Any defense not raised in the written response will be considered waived. The written response also should set forth the reasons why the
respondent believes the penalty should not be imposed or why, if imposed, it should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
(d)
Default.
If the respondent elects not to submit a written response within the time limit set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, the Office of Foreign Assets Control will conclude that the respondent has decided not to respond to the prepenalty notice. The agency generally will then issue a written penalty notice imposing the penalty proposed in the prepenalty notice.
(e)
Informal settlement.
In addition to or as an alternative to a written response to a prepenalty notice, the respondent or respondent's representative may contact the Office of Foreign Assets Control as advised in the prepenalty notice to propose the settlement of allegations contained in the prepenalty notice and related matters. However, the requirements set forth in paragraph (f) of this section as to oral communication by the representative must first be fulfilled. In the event of settlement at the prepenalty stage, the claim proposed in the prepenalty notice will be withdrawn, the respondent will not be required to take a written position on allegations contained in the prepenalty notice, and the Office of Foreign Assets Control will make no final determination as to whether a violation occurred. The amount accepted in settlement of allegations in a prepenalty notice may vary from the civil penalty that might finally be imposed in the event of a formal determination of violation. In the event no settlement is reached, the time limit specified in paragraph (a) of this section for written response to the prepenalty notice will remain in effect unless additional time is granted by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
(f)
Representation.
A representative of the respondent may act on behalf of the respondent, but any oral communication with the Office of Foreign Assets Control prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the prepenalty notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the prepenalty notice was served upon the respondent in care of the representative.
[68 FR 34197, June 6, 2003, as amended at 89 FR 15743, Mar. 5, 2024]
§ 594.704
Penalty imposition or withdrawal.
(a)
No violation.
If, after considering any response to the prepenalty notice and any relevant facts, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was no violation by the respondent named in the prepenalty notice, the Director shall notify the respondent in writing of that determination and of the cancellation of the proposed monetary penalty.
(b)
Violation.
(1) If, after considering any written response to the prepenalty notice, or default in the submission of a written response, and any relevant facts, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was a violation by the respondent named in the prepenalty notice, the Director is authorized to issue a written penalty notice to the respondent of the determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty.
(2) The penalty notice shall inform the respondent that payment or arrangement for installment payment of the assessed penalty must be made within 30 days of the date of mailing of the penalty notice by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
(3) The penalty notice shall inform the respondent of the requirement to furnish the respondent's taxpayer identification number pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 7701 and that such number will be used for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent penalty amount.
(4) The issuance of the penalty notice finding a violation and imposing a monetary penalty shall constitute final agency action. The respondent has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in a federal district court.
§ 594.705
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.
In the event that the respondent does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control within
30 days of the date of mailing of the penalty notice, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.

# Subpart H—Procedures
§ 594.801
Procedures.
For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
[68 FR 53660, Sept. 11, 2003]
§ 594.802
Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.
Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 13224 of September 23, 2001, and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared therein, and any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Presidential Memorandum of October 11, 2017: Delegation of Certain Functions and Authorities under the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act of 2017 or any further Presidential action relating to Title I of the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act of 2017 (Pub. L. 115-44), Presidential Memorandum of January 15, 2019: Delegation of Functions and Authorities Under the Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015, as Amended, and the Hizballah International Financing Prevention Amendments Act of 2018, and Presidential Memorandum of May 24, 2019: Delegation of Functions and Authorities Under the Sanctioning the Use of Civilians as Defenseless Shields Act, may be taken by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.
[82 FR 50314, Oct. 31, 2017, as amended at 87 FR 39339, July 1, 2022]

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
§ 594.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures (including those pursuant to statements of licensing policy), and other procedures, see 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
Pt. 596

# PART 596—TERRORISM LIST GOVERNMENTS SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
Sec.
596.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
596.201
Prohibited financial transactions.
596.202
Evasions; attempts; conspiracies.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
596.301
Donation.
596.302
Effective date.
596.303
Financial institution.
596.304
Financial transaction.
596.305
General license.
596.306
License.
596.307
Monetary instruments.
596.308
Person; entity.
596.309
Specific license.
596.310
Terrorism List Government.
596.311
Transaction.
596.312
United States.
596.313
United States person.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
596.401
Reference to amended sections.
596.402
Effect of amendment.
596.403
Transactions incidental to a licensed transaction.
596.404
Financial transactions transferred through a bank of a Terrorism List Government.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations and Statements of Licensing Policy
596.500
Licensing procedures.
596.501
Effect of license or authorization.
596.502
Exclusion from licenses and authorizations.
596.503
Financial transactions with a Terrorism List Government otherwise subject to 31 CFR chapter V.
596.504
Certain financial transactions with Terrorism List Governments authorized.
596.505
Certain transactions related to stipends and scholarships authorized.
596.506
[Reserved]
596.507
Official business of the United States Government.
596.508
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

# Subpart F—Reports
596.601
Records and reports.

# Subpart G—Penalties
596.701
Penalties.

# Subpart H—Procedures
596.801
Procedures.
596.802
Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
596.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

# Authority:
18 U.S.C. 2332d; 22 U.S.C. 7201-7211; 31 U.S.C. 321(b).

# Source:
61 FR 43463, Aug. 23, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
§ 596.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
(a) This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security contexts may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. Except as otherwise authorized in this part, no license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. Except as otherwise authorized in this part, no license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. See § 596.503.
(b) No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[61 FR 43463, Aug. 23, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 45112, Aug. 25, 1997]

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
§ 596.201
Prohibited financial transactions.
Except as authorized by regulations, orders, directives, rulings, instructions, licenses, or otherwise, no United States person, on or after the effective date, knowing or having reasonable cause to know that a country is designated under section 6(j) of the Export Administration Act, 50 U.S.C. App. 2405, as a country supporting international terrorism, shall engage in a financial transaction with the government of that country.
Note to § 596.201: The name of each country that has been designated under section 6(j) of the Export Administration Act, 50 U.S.C. App. 2405, as a country supporting international terrorism is published in the
Federal Register
by the Department of State, and a complete list of countries currently so designated can be found via the Web site of the Department of State at
http://www.state.gov/j/ct/.
[80 FR 34054, June 15, 2015]
§ 596.202
Evasions; attempts; conspiracies.
Any transaction for the purpose of, or which has the effect of, evading or avoiding, or which facilitates the evasion or avoidance of, any of the prohibitions set forth in this part, is hereby prohibited. Any attempt to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is hereby prohibited. Any conspiracy formed for the purpose of engaging in a transaction prohibited by this part is hereby prohibited.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
§ 596.301
Donation.
The term
donation
means a transfer made in the form of a gift or charitable contribution.
§ 596.302
Effective date.
The term
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part which is 12:01 a.m. EDT, August 22, 1996.
§ 596.303
Financial institution.
The term
financial institution
shall have the definition given that term in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or the regulations promulgated thereunder, as from time to time amended.

# Note:
The breadth of the definition precludes its reproduction in this section.
§ 596.304
Financial transaction.
The term
financial transaction
shall have the meaning set forth in 18 U.S.C. 1956(c)(4), as from time to time amended. As of the effective date, this term includes:
(a) A transaction which in any way or degree affects interstate or foreign commerce;
(1) Involving the movement of funds by wire or other means; or
(2) Involving one or more monetary instruments; or
(3) Involving the transfer of title to any real property, vehicle, vessel, or aircraft; or
(b) A transaction involving the use of a financial institution which is engaged in, or the activities of which affect, interstate or foreign commerce in any way or degree.
§ 596.305
General license.
The term
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in this part.
§ 596.306
License.
Except as otherwise specified, the term
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
§ 596.307
Monetary instruments.
The term
monetary instruments
shall have the meaning set forth in 18 U.S.C. 1956(c)(5), as from time to time amended. As of the effective date, this term includes coin or currency of the United States or of any other country, travelers' checks, personal checks, bank checks, and money orders, or investment securities or negotiable instruments, in bearer form or otherwise in such form that title thereto passes upon delivery.
§ 596.308
Person; entity.
(a) The term
person
means an individual or entity.
(b) The term
entity
means a partnership, association, corporation, or other organization.
§ 596.309
Specific license.
The term
specific license
means any license or authorization not set forth in this part but issued pursuant to this part.
§ 596.310
Terrorism List Government.
The term
Terrorism List Government
includes:
(a) The government of a country designated under section 6(j) of the Export Administration Act, as well as any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the central bank of such a country;
(b) Any entity owned or controlled by such a government.
§ 596.311
Transaction.
The term
transaction
shall have the meaning set forth in 18 U.S.C. 1956(c)(3), as from time to time amended. As of the effective date, this term includes a purchase, sale, loan, pledge, gift, transfer, delivery, or other disposition, and with respect to a financial institution includes a deposit, withdrawal, transfer between accounts, exchange of currency, loan, extension of credit, purchase or sale of any stock, bond, certificate of deposit, or other monetary instrument, use of a safe deposit box, or any other payment, transfer, or delivery by, through, or to a financial institution, by whatever means effected.
§ 596.312
United States.
The term
United States
means the United States, including its territories and possessions.
§ 596.313
United States person.
The term
United States person
means any United States citizen or national, permanent resident alien, juridical person organized under the laws of the United States, or any person in the United States.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
§ 596.401
Reference to amended sections.
Except as otherwise specified, reference to any section of this part or to any regulation, ruling, order, instruction, direction, or license issued pursuant to this part refers to the same as currently amended.
§ 596.402
Effect of amendment.
Any amendment, modification, or revocation of any section of this part or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by or under the direction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control does not, unless otherwise specifically provided, affect any act done or omitted to be done, or any civil or criminal suit or proceeding commenced or pending prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.
§ 596.403
Transactions incidental to a licensed transaction.
Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized.
§ 596.404
Financial transactions transferred through a bank of a Terrorism List Government.
For the purposes of this part only, a financial transaction not originated by a Terrorism List Government, but transferred to the United States through a bank owned or controlled by a Terrorism List Government, shall not be deemed a financial transaction with the government of a country supporting international terrorism pursuant to § 596.201.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations and Statements of Licensing Policy
§ 596.500
Licensing procedures.
For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part.
[68 FR 53660, Sept. 11, 2003]
§ 596.501
Effect of license or authorization.
(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by or under the direction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of the license, unless specifically provided in such license or other authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes a transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and specifically refers to a part in 31 CFR chapter V. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part authorizes any transactions prohibited by any provision of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction or license specifically refers to such provision.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction or license authorizing any transaction otherwise prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition or prohibitions contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect
to, any property which would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
§ 596.502
Exclusion from licenses and authorizations.
The Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control reserves the right to exclude any person, property, or transaction from the operation of any license, or from the privileges therein conferred, or to restrict the applicability thereof with respect to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such action is binding upon all persons receiving actual or constructive notice of such exclusion or restriction.
§ 596.503
Financial transactions with a Terrorism List Government otherwise subject to 31 CFR chapter V.
United States persons are authorized to engage in financial transactions with a Terrorism List Government that is subject to regulations contained in parts of 31 CFR chapter V other than this part to the extent and subject to the conditions stated in such other parts, or in any regulations, orders, directives, rulings, instructions, or licenses issued pursuant thereto.
§ 596.504
Certain financial transactions with Terrorism List Governments authorized.
(a) United States persons are authorized to engage in all financial transactions with a Terrorism List Government that is not otherwise subject to 31 CFR chapter V, except for a transfer from a Terrorism List Government:
(1) Constituting a donation to a United States person; or
(2) With respect to which the United States person knows (including knowledge based on advice from an agent of the United States Government), or has reasonable cause to believe, that the transfer poses a risk of furthering terrorist acts in the United States.
(b) Nothing in this section authorizes the return of a transfer prohibited by paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
§ 596.505
Certain transactions related to stipends and scholarships authorized.
(a) United States persons are authorized to engage in all financial transactions with respect to stipends and scholarships covering tuition and related educational, living and travel expenses provided by the Government of Syria to Syrian nationals who are enrolled as students in an accredited educational institution in the United States. Representations made by an accredited educational institution concerning the status of a student maybe relied upon in determining the applicability of this section.
(b) Nothing in this section authorizes a transaction prohibited by § 596.504(a)(2).
[61 FR 67944, Dec. 26, 1996, as amended at 86 FR 27274, May 20, 2021]
§ 596.506
[Reserved]
§ 596.507
Official business of the United States Government.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[87 FR 78481, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 596.508
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(1) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(2) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(3) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(4) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International
Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(5) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
(b) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
[87 FR 78481, Dec. 21, 2022]

# Subpart F—Reports
§ 596.601
Records and reports.
For provisions relating to records and reports, see subpart C of part 501 of this chapter.
[62 FR 45112, Aug. 25, 1997]

# Subpart G—Penalties
§ 596.701
Penalties.
Attention is directed to 18 U.S.C. 2332d, as added by Public Law 104-132, section 321, which provides that, except as provided in regulations issued by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, a United States person, knowing or having reasonable cause to know that a country is designated under section 6(j) of the Export Administration Act, 50 U.S.C. App. 2405, as a country supporting international terrorism, engages in a financial transaction with the government of that country, shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned for not more than 10 years, or both.

# Subpart H—Procedures
§ 596.801
Procedures.
For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
[62 FR 45112, Aug. 25, 1997, as amended at 68 FR 53660, Sept. 11, 2003]
§ 596.802
Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.
Any action which the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to section 321 of the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996, Pub. L. 104-132, 110 Stat. 1214, 1254 (18 U.S.C. 2332d), may be taken by the Director, Office of Foreign Assets Control, or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.
[61 FR 43463, Aug. 23, 1996. Redesignated at 62 FR 45112, Aug. 25, 1997]

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
§ 596.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, to licensing procedures (including those pursuant to statements of licensing policy), and to other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
[62 FR 45112, Aug. 25, 1997]
Pt. 597

# PART 597—FOREIGN TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
Sec.
597.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
597.201
Prohibited transactions involving blocked assets or funds of foreign terrorist organizations or their agents.
597.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
597.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
597.204
Evasions; attempts; conspiracies.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
597.301
Agent.
597.302
Assets.
597.303
Blocked account; blocked funds.
597.304
Designation.
597.305
Effective date.
597.306
Entity.
597.307
Financial institution.
597.308
Financial transaction.
597.309
Foreign terrorist organization.
597.310
Funds.
597.311
General license.
597.312
Interest.
597.313
License.
597.314
Person.
597.315
Specific license.
597.316
Transaction.
597.317
Transfer.
597.318
United States.
597.319
U.S. financial institution.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
597.401
Reference to amended sections.
597.402
Effect of amendment.
597.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked funds.
597.404
Setoffs prohibited.
597.405
Transactions incidental to a licensed transaction.
597.406
Offshore transactions.
597.407
Palestinian Authority.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
597.500
Licensing procedures.
597.501
Effect of license or authorization.
597.502
Exclusion from licenses and authorizations.
597.503
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
597.504
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges authorized.
597.505
Payment for certain legal services.
597.506
Official activities of certain international organizations; U.S. person employees of certain governments.
597.507
Travel, employment, residence and maintenance transactions with the Palestinian Authority.
597.508
Payment of taxes and incidental fees to the Palestinian Authority.
597.509
Transactions with entities under the control of the Palestinian President and certain other entities.
597.510
Concluding activities with the Palestinian Authority.
597.511
In-kind donations of medicine, medical devices, and medical services.
597.512
Transactions with the Palestinian Authority authorized.
597.513
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States and the formation of legal defense funds.
597.514
Official business of the United States Government.
597.515
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
597.516
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
597.517
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

# Subpart F—Reports
597.601
Records and reports.

# Subpart G—Penalties
597.701
Penalties.
597.702
Prepenalty notice.
597.703
Response to prepenalty notice.
597.704
Penalty notice.
597.705
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

# Subpart H—Procedures
597.801
Procedures.
597.802
Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
597.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1189; 18 U.S.C. 2339B; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note).

# Source:
62 FR 52495, Oct. 8, 1997, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
§ 597.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
(a) This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Differing statutory authority and foreign policy and national security contexts may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other
parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part.
(b) No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations. This part does not implement, construe, or limit the scope of any other part of this chapter, including (but not limited to) the Terrorism Sanctions Regulations, part 595 of this chapter, and does not excuse any person from complying with any other part of this chapter, including (but not limited to) part 595 of this chapter.
(c) This part does not implement, construe, or limit the scope of any criminal statute, including (but not limited to) 18 U.S.C. 2339B(a)(1) and 2339A, and does not excuse any person from complying with any criminal statute, including (but not limited to) 18 U.S.C. 2339B(a)(1) and 18 U.S.C. 2339A.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
§ 597.201
Prohibited transactions involving blocked assets or funds of foreign terrorist organizations or their agents.
(a) Upon notification to Congress of the Secretary of State's intent to designate an organization as a foreign terrorist organization pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1189(a), until the publication in the
Federal Register
as described in paragraph (c) of this section, any U.S. financial institution receiving notice from the Secretary of the Treasury by means of order, directive, instruction, regulation, ruling, license, or otherwise shall, except as otherwise provided in such notice, block all financial transactions involving any assets of such organization within the possession or control of such U.S. financial institution until further directive from the Secretary of the Treasury, Act of Congress, or order of court.
(b) Except as otherwise authorized by order, directive, instruction, regulation, ruling, license, or otherwise, from and after the designation of an organization as a foreign terrorist organization pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1189(a), any U.S. financial institution that becomes aware that it has possession of or control over any funds in which the designated foreign terrorist organization or its agent has an interest shall:
(1) Retain possession of or maintain control over such funds; and
(2) Report to the Secretary of the Treasury the existence of such funds in accordance with § 501.603 of this chapter.
(c) Publication in the
Federal Register
of the designation of an organization as a foreign terrorist organization pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1189(a) shall be deemed to constitute a further directive from the Secretary of the Treasury for purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, and shall require the actions contained in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) The requirements of paragraph (b) of this section shall remain in effect until the effective date of an administrative, judicial, or legislative revocation of the designation of an organization as a foreign terrorist organization, or until the designation lapses, pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1189.
(e) When a transaction results in the blocking of funds at a financial institution pursuant to this section and a party to the transaction believes the funds have been blocked due to mistaken identity, that party may seek to have such funds unblocked pursuant to the administrative procedures set forth in § 501.806 of this chapter. Requests for the unblocking of funds pursuant to § 501.806 must be submitted to the attention of the Compliance Programs Division.
§ 597.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
(a) Any transfer after the effective date which is in violation of § 597.201 or any other provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, license, or other authorization hereunder and involves any funds or assets held in the name of a foreign terrorist organization or its agent or in which a foreign terrorist organization or its agent has or has had an interest since such date, is null and void and shall not be the basis for
the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power or privilege with respect to such funds or assets.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or interest in, any funds or assets held in the name of a foreign terrorist organization or its agent or in which a foreign terrorist organization or its agent has an interest, or has had an interest since such date, unless the financial institution with whom such funds or assets are held or maintained, prior to such date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, an appropriate license or other authorization issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or render it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part, and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued hereunder.
(d) Transfers of funds or assets which otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any financial institution with whom such funds or assets were held or maintained (and as to such financial institution only) in cases in which such financial institution is able to establish to the satisfaction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the financial institution with whom such funds or assets were held or maintained;
(2) The financial institution with which such funds or assets were held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such institution, that such transfer required a license or authorization by or pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or the withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The financial institution with which such funds or assets were held or maintained filed with the Office of Foreign Assets Control a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other direction or authorization hereunder; or
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or the withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(e) Except for exercises of judicial authority pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1189(b), unless licensed or authorized pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any funds or assets which, on or since the effective date, were in the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution and were held in the name of a foreign terrorist organization or its agent or in which there existed an interest of a foreign terrorist organization or its agent.
§ 597.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, or as otherwise directed by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, any U.S. financial institution holding funds subject to § 597.201(b) shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account which is in the name of the foreign terrorist
organization or its agent and which is located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term
interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) in a federally-insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates which are commercially reasonable for the amount of funds in the account or certificate of deposit; or
(ii) with a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury Bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked interest-bearing account pursuant to this paragraph may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days. If interest is credited to a separate blocked account or sub-account, the name of the account party on each account must be the same and must clearly indicate the foreign terrorist organization or agent having an interest in the accounts.
(c) Blocked funds held as of the effective date in the form of stocks, bonds, debentures, letters of credit, or instruments which cannot be negotiated for the purpose of placing the funds in a blocked interest-bearing account pursuant to paragraph (a) may continue to be held in the form of the existing security or instrument until liquidation or maturity, provided that any dividends, interest income, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(d) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner in which an immediate financial or economic benefit or access accrues to the foreign terrorist organization or its agent.
§ 597.204
Evasions; attempts; conspiracies.
Any transaction for the purpose of, or which has the effect of, evading or avoiding, or which facilitates the evasion or avoidance of, any of the prohibitions set forth in this part, is hereby prohibited. Any attempt to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is hereby prohibited. Any conspiracy formed for the purpose of engaging in a transaction prohibited by this part is hereby prohibited.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
§ 597.301
Agent.
(a) The term
agent
means:
(1) Any person owned or controlled by a foreign terrorist organization; or
(2) Any person to the extent that such person is, or has been, or to the extent that there is reasonable cause to believe that such person is, or has been, since the effective date, acting or purporting to act directly or indirectly on behalf of a foreign terrorist organization.
(b) The term
agent
includes, but is not limited to, any person determined by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control to be an agent as defined in paragraph (a) of this section.

# Note to § 597.301:
The names of persons designated as foreign terrorist organizations or determined to fall within this definition are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (“SDN List”) with the identifier “[FTO].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site:
http://www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. Section 501.807 of this chapter sets forth the procedures to be followed by a person seeking administrative reconsideration of a determination that the person falls within this definition, or who wishes to assert that the circumstances resulting in such a determination are no longer applicable.
[62 FR 52495, Oct. 8, 1997, as amended at 76 FR 38544, June 30, 2011; 78 FR 38577, June 27, 2013]
§ 597.302
Assets.
The term
assets
includes, but is not limited to, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of
title, ownership or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future or contingent.
§ 597.303
Blocked account; blocked funds.
The terms
blocked account
and
blocked funds
shall mean any account or funds subject to the prohibitions in § 597.201 held in the name of a foreign terrorist organization or its agent or in which a foreign terrorist organization or its agent has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to an authorization or license from the Office of Foreign Assets Control authorizing such action.
§ 597.304
Designation.
The term
designation
includes both the designation and redesignation of a foreign terrorist organization pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1189.
§ 597.305
Effective date.
Except as that term is used in § 597.201(d), the term
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part which is October 6, 1997, or, in the case of foreign terrorist organizations designated after that date and their agents, the earlier of the date on which a financial institution receives actual or constructive notice of such designation or of the Secretary of Treasury's exercise of their authority to block financial transactions pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1189(a)(2)(C) and § 597.201(a).
[62 FR 52495, Oct. 8, 1997, as amended at 89 FR 15743, Mar. 5, 2024]
§ 597.306
Entity.
The term
entity
includes a partnership, association, corporation, or other organization, group, or subgroup.
§ 597.307
Financial institution.
The term
financial institution
shall have the definition given that term in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) as from time to time amended, notwithstanding the definition of that term in 31 CFR part 103.

# Note:
The breadth of the statutory definition of
financial institution
precludes its reproduction in this section. Among the types of businesses covered are insured banks (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(h)), commercial banks or trust companies, private bankers, agencies or branches of a foreign bank in the United States, insured institutions (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1724(a)), thrift institutions, brokers or dealers registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under 15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.,
securities or commodities brokers and dealers, investment bankers or investment companies, currency exchanges, issuers, redeemers, or cashiers of traveler's checks, checks, money orders, or similar instruments, credit card system operators, insurance companies, dealers in precious metals, stones or jewels, pawnbrokers, loan or finance companies, travel agencies, licensed senders of money, telegraph companies, businesses engaged in vehicle sales, including automobile, airplane or boat sales, persons involved in real estate closings and settlements, the United States Postal Service, a casino, gambling casino, or gaming establishment with an annual gaming revenue of more than $1,000,000 as further described in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2), or agencies of the United States Government or of a State or local government carrying out a duty or power of any of the businesses described in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2).
§ 597.308
Financial transaction.
The term
financial transaction
means a transactioninvolving the transfer or movement of funds, whether by wire or other means.
§ 597.309
Foreign terrorist organization.
The term
foreign terrorist organization
means an organization designated or redesignated as a foreign terrorist organization, or with respect to which
the Secretary of State has notified Congress of the intention to designate as a foreign terrorist organization, under 8 U.S.C. 1189(a).
§ 597.310
Funds.
The term
funds
includes coin or currency of the United States or any other country, traveler's checks, personal checks, bank checks, money orders, stocks, bonds, debentures, drafts, letters of credit, any other negotiable instrument, and any electronic representation of any of the foregoing. An electronic representation of any of the foregoing includes any form of digital or electronic cash, coin, or currency in use currently or placed in use in the future.
§ 597.311
General license.
The term
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in this part.
§ 597.312
Interest.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
interest
when used with respect to funds or assets (e.g., “an interest in funds”) means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
§ 597.313
License.
Except as otherwise specified, the term
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
§ 597.314
Person.
The term
person
means an individual or entity.
§ 597.315
Specific license.
The term
specific license
means any license or authorization not set forth in this part but issued pursuant to this part.
§ 597.316
Transaction.
The term
transaction
shall have the meaning set forth in 18 U.S.C. 1956(c)(3), as from time to time amended. As of the effective date, this term includes a purchase, sale, loan, pledge, gift, transfer, delivery, or other disposition of any asset, and with respect to a financial institution includes a deposit, withdrawal, transfer between accounts, exchange of currency, loan, extension of credit, purchase or sale of any stock, bond, certificate of deposit, or other monetary instrument, use of a safe deposit box, or any other payment, transfer, or delivery by, through, or to a financial institution, by whatever means effected.
§ 597.317
Transfer.
The term
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property and, without limitation upon the foregoing, shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
§ 597.318
United States.
The term
United States
means the United States, its territories, states, commonwealths, districts, and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
§ 597.319
U.S. financial institution.
The term
U.S. financial institution
means:
(a) Any financial institution organized under the laws of the United States, including such financial institution's foreign branches;
(b) Any financial institution operating or doing business in the United States; or
(c) Those branches, offices and agencies of foreign financial institutions which are located in the United States, but not such foreign financial institutions' other foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
§ 597.401
Reference to amended sections.
Except as otherwise specified, reference to any section of this part or to any regulation, ruling, order, instruction, direction, or license issued pursuant to this part shall be deemed to refer to the same as currently amended.
§ 597.402
Effect of amendment.
Any amendment, modification, or revocation of any section of this part or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by or under the direction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control shall not, unless otherwise specifically provided, be deemed to affect any act done or omitted to be done, or any civil or criminal suit or proceeding commenced or pending prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license shall continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.
§ 597.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked funds.
(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of funds (including any interest in funds) away from a foreign terrorist organization or its agent, such funds shall no longer be deemed to be funds in which the foreign terrorist organization or its agent has or has had an interest, or which are held in the name of a foreign terrorist organization or its agent, unless there exists in the funds another interest of a foreign terrorist organization or its agent, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if funds (including any interest in funds) are or at any time since the effective date have been held by a foreign terrorist organization or its agent, or at any time thereafter are transferred or attempted to be transferred to a foreign terrorist organization or its agent, including by the making of any contribution to or for the benefit of a foreign terrorist organization or its agent, such funds shall be deemed to be funds in which there exists an interest of the foreign terrorist organization or its agent.
§ 597.404
Setoffs prohibited.
A setoff against blocked funds (including a blocked account) by a U.S. financial institution is a prohibited transaction under § 597.201 if effected after the effective date.
§ 597.405
Transactions incidental to a licensed transaction.
Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except a transaction by an unlicensed, foreign terrorist organization or its agent or involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked funds not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license.
§ 597.406
Offshore transactions.
The prohibitions contained in § 597.201 apply to transactions by U.S. financial institutions in locations outside the United States with respect to funds or assets which the U.S. financial institution knows, or becomes aware, are held in the name of a foreign terrorist organization or its agent, or in which the U.S. financial institution knows, or becomes aware that, a foreign terrorist organization or its agent has or has had an interest since the effective date.
§ 597.407
Palestinian Authority.
Following the January 2006 Palestinian elections, Hamas, a designated terrorist entity whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 597.201, has been determined to have a property interest in the transactions of the Palestinian Authority. Accordingly, pursuant to § 597.201, U.S. persons are prohibited from engaging in transactions with the Palestinian Authority unless authorized. Certain transactions with the Palestinian Authority may be authorized by license, see subpart E of this part.
[71 FR 27202, May 10, 2006]

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
§ 597.500
Licensing procedures.
For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part.
[68 FR 53660, Sept. 11, 2003]
§ 597.501
Effect of license or authorization.
(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by or under the direction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, shall be deemed to authorize or validate any transaction effected prior to the issuance of the license, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any provision of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction or license specifically refers to such provision.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction otherwise prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition or prohibitions contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property which would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
§ 597.502
Exclusion from licenses and authorizations.
The Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control reserves the right to exclude any person, property, or transaction from the operation of any license, or from the privileges therein conferred, or to restrict the applicability thereof with respect to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such action shall be binding upon all persons receiving actual or constructive notice of such exclusion or restriction.
§ 597.503
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
(a) Any payment of funds or transfer of credit or other financial or economic resources or assets by a financial institution into a blocked account in a U.S. financial institution is authorized, provided that a transfer from a blocked account pursuant to this authorization may only be made to another blocked account held in the same name on the books of the same U.S. financial institution.
(b) This section does not authorize any transfer from a blocked account within the United States to an account held outside the United States.

# Note to § 597.503:
Please refer to §§ 501.603 and 597.601 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
§ 597.504
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges authorized.
(a) U.S. financial institutions are hereby authorized to debit any blocked account with such U.S. financial institution in payment or reimbursement
for normal service charges owed to such U.S. financial institution by the owner of such blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charge shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photostats, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail insurance, stationery and supplies, check books, and other similar items.
§ 597.505
Payment for certain legal services.
Except as otherwise authorized, specific licenses may be issued, on a case-by-case basis, authorizing receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses through a U.S. financial institution for the following legal services by U.S. persons:
(a) Provision of legal advice and counseling to a foreign terrorist organization or an agent thereof on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling is not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of any of the prohibitions of this part;
(b) Representation of a foreign terrorist organization or an agent thereof when named as a defendant in or otherwise made a party to domestic U.S. legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings;
(c) Initiation and conduct of domestic U.S. legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings on behalf of a foreign terrorist organization or an agent thereof;
(d) Representation of a foreign terrorist organization or an agent thereof before any federal or state agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against a foreign terrorist organization or an agent thereof;
(e) Representation of an agent of a foreign terrorist organization, wherever located, detained within the jurisdiction of the United States or by the United States government, with respect to either such detention or any charges made against such agent, including, but not limited to, the conduct of military commission prosecutions and the initiation and conduct of federal court proceedings;
(f) Provision of legal services to a foreign terrorist organization or an agent thereof in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense; and
(g) Representation of a foreign terrorist organization seeking judicial review of a designation before the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1189(b)(1).

# Note to § 597.505:
See
§ 597.513 of this part for authorized mechanisms for payment through a U.S. financial institution of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for legal services specified in this section provided by a U.S. person to or on behalf of a foreign terrorist organization or an agent thereof.
[62 FR 52495, Oct. 8, 1997, as amended at 73 FR 78633, Dec. 23, 2008; 75 FR 75909, Dec. 7, 2010]
§ 597.506
Official activities of certain international organizations; U.S. person employees of certain governments.
(a) Effective April 12, 2006, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to engage in all financial transactions with the Palestinian Authority otherwise prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United Nations, provided that no payment pursuant to this license may involve a debit to an account of the Palestinian Authority on the books of a U.S. financial institution or to any account blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) For purposes of this section only, the term “United Nations” means its principal organs, including funds, bodies, commissions, agencies, departments and other entities of the Security Council, General Assembly, Economic and Social Council and Secretariat, specifically including, among others, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the World Food Programme, and the World Health Organization.
(c) The retention and reporting provisions of § 597.201 shall not apply with
respect to transactions authorized by paragraph (a) of this section.
[71 FR 27202, May 10, 2006]
§ 597.507
Travel, employment, residence and maintenance transactions with the Palestinian Authority.
(a) Effective April 12, 2006, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to engage in all transactions that are ordinarily incident to U.S. persons' travel to or from, or employment, residence or personal maintenance within, the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, including, but not limited to, receipt of salaries, payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use. Nothing in this license authorizes any debit to an account of the Palestinian Authority on the books of a U.S. financial institution or to any account blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The retention and reporting provisions of § 597.201 shall not apply with respect to transactions authorized by paragraph (a) of this section.
[71 FR 27202, May 10, 2006]
§ 597.508
Payment of taxes and incidental fees to the Palestinian Authority.
(a) Effective April 12, 2006, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to conduct all transactions ordinarily incident to the following activities by U.S. persons: the payment of taxes or fees to, or the purchase or receipt of permits or public utility services from, the Palestinian Authority where such transactions are necessary and ordinarily incident to such persons' day-to-day operations. Nothing in this license authorizes a debit to an account of the Palestinian Authority on the books of a U.S. financial institution or to any account blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The retention and reporting provisions of § 597.201 shall not apply with respect to transactions authorized by paragraph (a) of this section.
[71 FR 27202, May 10, 2006]
§ 597.509
Transactions with entities under the control of the Palestinian President and certain other entities.
(a) Effective April 12, 2006, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to engage in all transactions otherwise prohibited under this part with the following entities and individuals:
(1) The Palestinian Authority Presidency, including only the Office of the President, Presidential Security, General Intelligence Apparatus, Governors and Governorate staff, the Attorney General's Office, the Palestine Investment Fund (PIF), the Border Crossings Administration, and the Palestine Broadcasting Corporation (including the Voice of Palestine, Wafa News Agency, and the General Public Information Agency/State Information Services);
(2) The Palestinian Judiciary, including the Higher Judicial Council;
(3) Members of the Palestinian Legislative Council (PLC) who were not elected to the PLC on the party slate of Hamas or any other Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO), Specially Designated Terrorist (SDT), or Specially Designated Global Terrorist (SDGT); and
(4) The following independent agencies: The Central Elections Commission; the Independent Citizens Rights Commission; the General Audit Authority/External Audit Agency; and the Palestinian Monetary Authority.
(b) Effective April 12, 2006, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to reject transactions with members of the Palestinian Legislative Council (PLC) who were elected to the PLC on the party slate of Hamas or any other Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO), Specially Designated Terrorist (SDT), or Specially Designated Global Terrorist (SDGT), provided that any such individuals are not named on OFAC's list of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons.
(c) Nothing in this license authorizes a debit to an account of the Palestinian Authority on the books of a U.S. financial institution or to any account blocked pursuant to this part.
(d) The retention and reporting provisions of § 597.201 shall not apply with respect to transactions authorized by
paragraph (a) of this section. The retention provisions of § 597.201 shall not apply with respect to transactions authorized by paragraph (b) of this section.
[71 FR 27202, May 10, 2006]
§ 597.510
Concluding activities with the Palestinian Authority.
(a) Effective April 12, 2006, all transactions and activities with the Palestinian Authority otherwise prohibited under this part are authorized through May 12, 2006, provided that they are necessary to conclude ongoing contracts or programs with the Palestinian Authority, and further provided that no payment pursuant to this license may involve a debit to an account of the Palestinian Authority on the books of a U.S. financial institution or to any account blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The retention and reporting provisions of § 597.201 shall not apply with respect to transactions authorized by paragraph (a) of this section.
[71 FR 27202, May 10, 2006]
§ 597.511
In-kind donations of medicine, medical devices, and medical services.
(a) Effective July 6, 2006, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to conduct all transactions ordinarily incident to the provision by nongovernmental organizations that are U.S. persons of in-kind donations of medicine, medical devices, and medical services to the Palestinian Authority Ministry of Health, provided that such donations are strictly for distribution in the West Bank or Gaza and not intended for resale, and provided further that no payment pursuant to this license may involve a debit to an account of the Palestinian Authority on the books of a U.S. financial institution or to any account blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) For the purposes of this section only, the term medical device has the meaning given the term “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321), including medical supplies, but does not include any item listed on the Commerce Control List in the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR part 774, supplement no. 1.
(c) U.S. financial institutions are authorized to conduct all transactions ordinarily incident to the provision by nongovernmental organizations that are U.S. persons of in-kind donations of medical devices listed on the Commerce Control List to the Palestinian Authority Ministry of Health, provided that
(1) Such donation is licensed by OFAC; and
(2) Such donation is authorized under or pursuant to the Export Administration Regulations.
(d) The retention and reporting provisions of § 597.201 shall not apply with respect to transactions authorized by paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section.
[71 FR 58744, Oct. 5, 2006]
§ 597.512
Transactions with the Palestinian Authority authorized.
(a) As of June 20, 2007, U.S. persons are authorized to engage in all transactions otherwise prohibited under this part with the Palestinian Authority.
(b) For purposes of this section only, the term
Palestinian Authority
means the Palestinian Authority government of Prime Minister Salam Fayyad and President Mahmoud Abbas, including all branches, ministries, offices, and agencies (independent or otherwise) thereof.
[72 FR 61518, Oct. 31, 2007]
§ 597.513
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States and the formation of legal defense funds.
(a)
Payments from funds originating outside the United States.
(1) Effective December 7, 2010, receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 597.505 to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 597.201 are authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 597.505 are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 597.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b)
Legal defense funds.
Effective December 7, 2010, U.S. persons that are attorneys, law firms, or legal services organizations are authorized to form legal defense funds from which payments of professional fees and reimbursement for expenses incurred in connection with the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 597.505 may be debited provided that:
(1) The legal defense fund must be held in a savings or checking account at a financial institution located in the United States;
(2) Prior to debiting the legal defense fund, the U.S. person responsible for establishing the legal defense fund must submit the following information to OFAC: a copy of a letter of engagement or a letter of intent to engage, specifying the services to be performed and signed by the individual to whom such services are to be provided, or, where services are to be provided to an entity, by a legal representative of the entity; the name of the individual or entity responsible for establishing the legal defense fund; the name of the financial institution at which the account for the legal defense fund will be held; a point of contact at the financial institution holding the account for the legal defense fund; and the account name and account number for the legal defense fund. The foregoing information must be accompanied by correspondence referencing this paragraph (b) and is to be submitted to OFAC at
OFACReport@treasury.gov
with this section number in the subject line.
(3) The legal defense fund may not receive funds from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 597.201 or any other part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute; and
(4) The U.S. person responsible for establishing the legal defense fund must notify the financial institution at which the account for the legal defense fund is held that the account may only be debited to make payments of professional fees and reimburse expenses incurred in connection with the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 597.505.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
b

# ):
Any funds remaining in a legal defense fund account after all payments of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses authorized pursuant to this paragraph have been made or upon termination of the legal services for which payment is authorized pursuant to this paragraph are property in which the person to or on whose behalf the legal services were rendered has an interest and is subject to the prohibitions of this part. Persons in the possession or control of such remaining funds may apply for the unblocking of the funds by following the procedures set forth at § 501.801 of this chapter.
(c)
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[75 FR 75909, Dec. 7, 2010, as amended at 89 FR 103650, Dec. 19, 2024]
§ 597.514
Official business of the United States Government.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States
Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[87 FR 78481, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 597.515
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(1) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(2) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(3) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing; and
(4) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(5) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
(b) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
[87 FR 78481, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 597.516
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or
import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.

# Note 1 to § 597.516.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78505, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 597.517
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.
(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1)
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2)
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3)
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).

# Note 1 to § 597.517.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78505, Dec. 21, 2022]

# Subpart F—Reports
§ 597.601
Records and reports.
For provisions relating to records and reports, see subpart C of part 501 of this chapter; provided, however, that all of the powers afforded the Director pursuant to the first 3 sentences of § 501.602 of this chapter may also be exercised by the Attorney General in conducting administrative investigations pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 2339B(e); provided further, that the investigative authority of the Director pursuant to § 501.602 of this chapter shall be exercised in accordance with 18 U.S.C. 2339B(e); and provided further, that for purposes of this part no person other than a U.S. financial institution and its directors, officers, employees, and agents shall be required to maintain records or to file any reports or furnish any information under §§ 501.601, 501.602, or 501.603 of this chapter.

# Subpart G—Penalties
§ 597.701
Penalties.
(a) Attention is directed to 18 U.S.C. 2339B(a)(1), as added by Public Law 104-132, 110 Stat. 1250-1253, section 303, which provides that whoever, within
the United States or subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, knowingly provides material support or resources to a foreign terrorist organization, or attempts or conspires to do so, shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned for not more than 10 years, or both.
(b)(1) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 2339B(b), except as authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury, any financial institution that knowingly fails to retain possession of or maintain control over funds in which a foreign terrorist organization or its agent has an interest, or to report the existence of such funds in accordance with these regulations, shall be subject to a civil penalty in an amount that is the greater of the amount set forth in 18 U.S.C. 2339B(b) per violation, or twice the amount of which the financial institution was required to retain possession or control.
(2) The civil penalties provided in 18 U.S.C. 2339B(b) are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(3) The applicable maximum civil penalty per violation is $99,703 or twice the amount of which a financial institution was required to retain possession or control.
(c) Attention is directed to 18 U.S.C. 1001, which provides that whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact, or makes any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or representation, or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or entry, shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.
(d) Conduct covered by this part may also be subject to relevant provisions of other applicable laws.
[62 FR 52495, Oct. 8, 1997, as amended at 68 FR 61361, Oct. 28, 2003; 81 FR 43077, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 10439, Feb. 10, 2017; 83 FR 11880, Mar. 19, 2018; 84 FR 27719, June 14, 2019; 85 FR 19888, Apr. 9, 2020; 86 FR 14539, Mar. 17, 2021; 87 FR 7373, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2234, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2144, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3693, Jan. 15, 2025]
§ 597.702
Prepenalty notice.
(a)
When required.
If the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control has reasonable cause to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part, and the Director, acting in coordination with the Attorney General, determines that civil penalty proceedings are warranted, the Director shall issue to the person concerned a notice of intent to impose a monetary penalty. The prepenalty notice shall be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to this matter.
(b)
Contents
—(1)
Facts of violation.
The prepenalty notice shall describe the violation, specify the laws and regulations allegedly violated, and state the amount of the proposed monetary penalty.
(2)
Right to respond.
The prepenalty notice also shall inform the respondent of respondent's right to respond within 30 days of mailing of the notice as to why a monetary penalty should not be imposed, or, if imposed, why it should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
§ 597.703
Response to prepenalty notice.
(a)
Time within which to respond.
The respondent shall have 30 days from the date of mailing of the prepenalty notice to respond in writing to the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
(b)
Form and contents of written response.
The written response need not be in any particular form, but shall
contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the prepenalty notice. It should respond to the allegations in the prepenalty notice and set forth the reasons why the respondent believes the penalty should not be imposed or, if imposed, why it should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
(c)
Informal settlement.
In addition or as an alternative to a written response to a prepenalty notice pursuant to this section, the respondent or respondent's representative may contact the Office of Foreign Assets Control as advised in the prepenalty notice to propose the settlement of allegations contained in the prepenalty notice and related matters. In the event of settlement at the prepenalty stage, the prepenalty notice will be withdrawn, the respondent is not required to take a written position on allegations contained in the prepenalty notice, and the Office of Foreign Assets Control will make no final determination as to whether a violation occurred. The amount accepted in settlement of allegations in a prepenalty notice may vary from the civil penalty that might finally be imposed in the event of a formal determination of violation. In the event no settlement is reached, the 30-day period specified in paragraph (a) of this section for written response to the prepenalty notice remains in effect unless additional time is granted by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
§ 597.704
Penalty notice.
(a)
No violation.
If, after considering any written response to the prepenalty notice and any relevant facts, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was no violation by the respondent, the Director promptly shall notify the respondent in writing of that determination and that no monetary penalty will be imposed.
(b)
Violation.
(1) If, after considering any written response to the prepenalty notice and any relevant facts, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was a violation by the respondent, the Director promptly shall issue a written notice of the imposition of the monetary penalty on the respondent. The issuance of a written notice of the imposition of a monetary penalty shall constitute final agency action.
(2) The penalty notice shall inform the respondent that payment of the assessed penalty must be made within 30 days of the mailing of the penalty notice.
(3) The penalty notice shall inform the respondent of the requirement to furnish respondent's taxpayer identification number pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 7701 and that the Department intends to use such number for the purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent penalty amount in the event of a failure to pay the penalty imposed.
§ 597.705
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.
In the event that the respondent does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control within 30 days of the mailing of the written notice of the imposition of the penalty, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a Federal district court.

# Subpart H—Procedures
§ 597.801
Procedures.
For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
[62 FR 52495, Oct. 8, 1997, as amended at 68 FR 53660, Sept. 11, 2003]
§ 597.802
Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.
Any action which the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1189 or 18 U.S.C. 2339B, as added by Public Law 104-132, 110 Stat. 1248-1253, sections 302 and 303,
may be taken by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
§ 597.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, to licensing procedures (including those pursuant to statements of licensing policy), and to other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
Pt. 598

# PART 598—FOREIGN NARCOTICS KINGPIN SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—Relation of this Part to Other Laws and Regulations
Sec.
598.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
598.201
Applicability of sanctions.
598.202
Prohibited transactions.
598.203
[Reserved]
598.204
Evasions; attempts; conspiracies.
598.205
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
598.206
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
598.207
Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
598.300
Applicability of definitions.
598.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
598.302
Effective date.
598.303
Entity.
598.304
Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act.
598.305
Foreign person.
598.306
[Reserved]
598.307
Interest.
598.308
Licenses; general and specific.
598.309
Narcotic drug; controlled substance; listed chemical.
598.310
Narcotics trafficking.
598.311
Person.
598.312
Property; property interest.
598.313
Significant foreign narcotics trafficker.
598.314
Specially designated narcotics trafficker.
598.315
[Reserved]
598.316
Transfer.
598.317
United States.
598.318
United States person; U.S. person.
598.319
U.S. financial institution.
598.320
Finance.
598.321
OFAC.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
598.401
Reference to amended sections.
598.402
Effect of amendment.
598.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
598.404
Setoffs prohibited.
598.405
Transactions incidental to a licensed transaction.
598.406
Provision of services.
598.407
Offshore transactions involving blocked property.
598.408
Alleged change in ownership or control of an entity designated as a specially designated narcotics trafficker.
598.409
Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a specially designated narcotics trafficker.
598.410
Payments from blocked accounts to U.S. exporters and for other obligations prohibited.
598.411
Charitable contributions.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
598.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
598.502
Effect of license.
598.503
Exclusion from licenses.
598.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
598.505
Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.
598.506
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges authorized.
598.507
Provision of certain legal services.
598.508
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
598.509
Payment of legal fees and expenses at public expense.
598.510
Certain transactions for maintenance, employment, and related banking services for blocked individuals physically located in the United States.
598.511
Certain transactions for the expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property
598.512
Emergency medical services.
598.513
Official business of the United States Government.
598.514
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
598.515
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
598.516
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

# Subpart F—Reports
598.601
Records and reports.

# Subpart G—Penalties
598.701
Penalties.
598.702
Prepenalty notice.
598.703
Response to prepenalty notice; informal settlement.
598.704
Penalty imposition or withdrawal.
598.705
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.
598.706
Judicial review of civil penalty.

# Subpart H—Procedures
598.801
Procedures.
598.802
Availability of information pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act.
598.803
Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
598.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 21 U.S.C. 1901-1908; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note).

# Source:
65 FR 41336, July 5, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
§ 598.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
(a) This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, including part 536 of this chapter, “Narcotics Trafficking Sanctions Regulations,” with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the provisions of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security contexts may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part.
(b) No license contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
§ 598.201
Applicability of sanctions.
A specially designated narcotics trafficker is subject to any and all sanctions authorized by the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act and implemented in this part. The application of sanctions on any specially designated narcotics trafficker will remain in effect until revoked by the President pursuant to section 804(h)(2) of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, waived by the President pursuant to section 804(g)(1) of that Act, or revoked by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to section 805(e)(1)(A) of that Act.
§ 598.202
Prohibited transactions.
(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person, of a specially designated narcotics trafficker are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# ):
See
§ 598.314 and the notes to that section for the definition and information about the public listing of specially designated narcotics traffickers and OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).
See
paragraph (c) of § 598.314 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
a

# ):
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to
mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a).
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this part, any dealing in securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, a specially designated narcotics trafficker is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
[86 FR 26667, May 17, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 75968, Sept. 17, 2024]
§ 598.203
[Reserved]
§ 598.204
Evasions; attempts; conspiracies.
(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
[86 FR 26667, May 17, 2021]
§ 598.205
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property of a specially designated narcotics trafficker is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or property interests.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property of a specially designated narcotics trafficker, unless the person with whom such property is held or maintained, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, an appropriate license or other authorization issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, this part, and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Property transfers that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this
section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property was held or maintained;
(2) The person with whom such property was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed, or if a license did purport to cover the transfer, that such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property was held or maintained filed with the Office of Foreign Assets Control a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, direction, or license issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ) of § 598.205:
The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(e) Unless licensed or authorized pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property in which on or since the effective date there existed an interest of a specially designated narcotics trafficker.
§ 598.206
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 598.202 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 598.202 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraphs (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 598.202 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides immediate financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 598.202, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.
[86 FR 26667, May 17, 2021]
§ 598.207
Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.
(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 598.202 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 598.202 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.
[86 FR 26668, May 17, 2021]

# Subpart C—General Definitions
§ 598.300
Applicability of definitions.
The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.
[86 FR 26668, May 17, 2021]
§ 598.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
The terms
blocked account
and
blocked property
shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 598.202 held in the name of a specially designated narcotics trafficker, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.

# Note 1 to § 598.301:
See
§ 598.314 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more specially designated narcotics traffickers.
[86 FR 26668, May 17, 2021]
§ 598.302
Effective date.
The term
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives of this part, which is December 3, 1999, or, in the case of specially designated narcotics traffickers designated after that date, the earlier of the date on which actual or constructive notice of such designation is received.
§ 598.303
Entity.
The term
entity
means a partnership, joint venture, association, corporation, organization, network, group, or subgroup, or any form of business collaboration.
§ 598.304
Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act.
The term
Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act
means the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, Pub. L. 106-120, title 8, 113 Stat. 1606, 1626-1636 (codified at 21 U.S.C. 1901-1908, 8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(2)(C)).
§ 598.305
Foreign person.
The term
foreign person
means any citizen or national of a foreign state, wherever located, or any entity not organized under the laws of the United States, but does not include a foreign state.
[86 FR 26668, May 17, 2021]
§ 598.306
[Reserved]
§ 598.307
Interest.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
interest
when used with respect to property (e.g., an interest in property) means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
§ 598.308
Licenses; general and specific.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
(c) The term
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.

# Note 1 to § 598.308:
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
[86 FR 26668, May 17, 2021]
§ 598.309
Narcotic drug; controlled substance; listed chemical.
The terms
narcotic drug, controlled substance,
and
listed chemical
have the meanings given those terms in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802).
§ 598.310
Narcotics trafficking.
The term
narcotics trafficking
means any illicit activity to cultivate, produce, manufacture, distribute, sell, finance, or transport narcotic drugs, controlled substances, or listed chemicals, or otherwise endeavor or attempt to do so, or to assist, abet, conspire, or collude with others to do so.
§ 598.311
Person.
The term
person
means an individual or entity.
§ 598.312
Property; property interest.
The terms
property
and
property interest
include but are not limited to money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, whether present, future, or contingent.
§ 598.313
Significant foreign narcotics trafficker.
The term
significant foreign narcotics trafficker
means any foreign person that plays a significant role in international narcotics trafficking that the President has determined to be appropriate for sanctions and has publicly identified under section 804(b) or section 804(h)(1) of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act.
[86 FR 26668, May 17, 2021]
§ 598.314
Specially designated narcotics trafficker.
The term
specially designated narcotics trafficker
means:
(a) Significant foreign narcotics traffickers; and
(b) Foreign persons designated by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Attorney General, the Director of Central Intelligence, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Secretary of Defense, and the Secretary of State, because they are found to be:
(1) Materially assisting in, or providing financial or technological support for or to, or providing goods or services in support of, the international narcotics trafficking activities of a specially designated narcotics trafficker;
(2) Owned, controlled, or directed by, or acting for or on behalf of, a specially designated narcotics trafficker; or
(3) Playing a significant role in international narcotics trafficking; and
(c) Entities owned in the aggregate, directly or indirectly, 50 percent or more by one or more specially designated narcotics traffickers.

# Note 1 to § 598.314:
The names of persons determined to fall within paragraph (a) or (b) of this definition, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this part, are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the identifier “[SDNTK].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in Appendix A to this chapter. Entities that fall within paragraph (c) of this section are also persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part, regardless of whether they are identified by OFAC or appear on the SDN List.

# Note 2 to § 598.314:
The Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act (21 U.S.C. 1901-1908), in Section 806 (21 U.S.C. 1905), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this part are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-SDNTK].”

# Note 3 to § 598.314:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a specially designated narcotics trafficker; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.

# Note 4 to § 598.314:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the unblocking of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
[86 FR 26668, May 17, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 75968, Sept. 17, 2024]
§ 598.315
[Reserved]
§ 598.316
Transfer.
The term
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation upon the foregoing, the term
transfer
includes the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order; the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
§ 598.317
United States.
The term
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
§ 598.318
United States person; U.S. person.
The term
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen or national, permanent resident alien, an entity organized under the laws of the United States (including its foreign branches), or any person within the United States.
§ 598.319
U.S. financial institution.
The term
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including a foreign branch) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, as principal or agent. This terms includes but is not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions which are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
§ 598.320
Finance.
The term
finance
includes engaging in any transaction involving funds, other assets, property, or interest in property, that are derived, obtained, or retained from, directly or indirectly, narcotic drugs, controlled substances, or listed chemicals. This includes the transporting, transmitting, or transferring of any such assets, property, or interests in property that creates the appearance that the funds, assets, or property were legitimately acquired, furthers the illicit activity, conceals or disguises the assets, avoids reporting requirements, or otherwise promotes the carrying on of illicit activity, such as money laundering.

# Note 1 to § 598.320:
The definition of
finance
listed above is specific to this part and not any other parts of Chapter 31.
See
§ 598.101.
[86 FR 26669, May 17, 2021]
§ 598.321
OFAC.
The term
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
[86 FR 26669, May 17, 2021]

# Subpart D—Interpretations
§ 598.401
Reference to amended sections.
Except as otherwise specified, reference to any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or to any regulation, ruling, order, instruction, direction, or license issued pursuant to this part refers to the same as currently amended.
§ 598.402
Effect of amendment.
Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by or under the direction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal suit or proceeding commenced or pending prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.
§ 598.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
(a) Whenever a transaction licensed pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a specially designated narcotics trafficker, the transferred property will no longer be considered property in which that person has or has had an interest. Provided no other specially designated narcotics trafficker has any interest in
the transferred property following the transfer, the transferred property will no longer be considered property blocked pursuant to § 598.202.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a specially designated narcotics trafficker, such property shall be deemed to be property in which that person has an interest, and such property is therefore blocked pursuant to § 598.202.
§ 598.404
Setoffs prohibited.
A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 598.202 if effected after the effective date.
[86 FR 26669, May 17, 2021]
§ 598.405
Transactions incidental to a licensed transaction.
Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect to the licensed transaction is also authorized by the license. Except as specifically authorized by the terms of a license, prohibited transactions by specially designated narcotics traffickers and debits to accounts blocked pursuant to § 598.202 are not considered incidental to a licensed transaction and therefore remain prohibited.
§ 598.406
Provision of services.
(a) The prohibitions on transactions contained in § 598.202 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, including by a foreign branch of an entity located in the United States:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of a specially designated narcotics trafficker; or
(2) With respect to property interests of a specially designated narcotics trafficker.
(b) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to a specially designated narcotics trafficker.

# Note 1 to § 598.406:
See
§§ 598.507 and 598.513 on licensing policy with regard to the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
[86 FR 26669, May 17, 2021]
§ 598.407
Offshore transactions involving blocked property.
The prohibitions in § 598.202 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property, as defined in § 598.301, apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States.
[86 FR 26669, May 17, 2021]
§ 598.408
Alleged change in ownership or control of an entity designated as a specially designated narcotics trafficker.
(a) A change or alleged change in ownership or control of an entity designated as a specially designated narcotics trafficker shall not be the basis for removal of that entity from the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (“SDN List”) unless, upon investigation by the Office of Foreign Control and submission of evidence by the entity, it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control that the transfer to a bona fide purchaser at arm's length, or other means of changing ownership or control, is legitimate and that the entity no longer meets the criteria for designation under § 598.314. Evidence submitted must conclusively demonstrate that all ties with other specially designated narcotics traffickers have been completely severed, and may include, but is not limited to, articles of incorporation; identification of new directors, officers, shareholders, and sources of capital; and contracts evidencing the sale of the entity to its new owners.
(b) Any continuing substantial financial obligations on the part of the new owners to any specially designated narcotics traffickers, including long-term payment plans, leases, or rents, will be considered as evidence of continuing control of the entity by the specially designated narcotics trafficker. Purchase of a designated entity without ongoing substantial financial obligations to a specially designated narcotics trafficker may nonetheless be a
basis for subsequent designation of the purchaser, if the transaction is determined materially to assist in or provide financial support for the international narcotics trafficking activities of specially designated narcotics traffickers for purposes of § 598.314(b)(1). For example, any acquisition transaction resulting in a direct cash transfer to or other enrichment of a specially designated narcotics trafficker could lead to designation of the purchaser. Mere change in name of an entity will not be considered as constituting a change of the entity's status.
[65 FR 41336, July 5, 2000, as amended at 76 FR 38545, June 30, 2011]
§ 598.409
Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a specially designated narcotics trafficker.
The prohibition in § 598.202 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a financial institution to a specially designated narcotics trafficker.
[86 FR 26669, May 17, 2021]
§ 598.410
Payments from blocked accounts to U.S. exporters and for other obligations prohibited.
No debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, including payment for goods or services exported prior to the effective date of the blocking, except as authorized pursuant to this part.
§ 598.411
Charitable contributions.
Unless specifically authorized by OFAC pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a specially designated narcotics trafficker. For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a specially designated narcotics trafficker if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from such a person.
[86 FR 26669, May 17, 2021]

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
§ 598.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part.
[65 FR 41336, July 5, 2000, as amended at 68 FR 53660, Sept. 11, 2003]
§ 598.502
Effect of license.
(a) No license contained in this part, or otherwise issued by or under the direction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control pursuant to this part, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of the license, unless the prior transaction is specifically authorized in such license.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part authorizes any transaction prohibited by any provision of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such provision.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction otherwise prohibited by this part has the effect of removing from the transaction a prohibition or prohibitions contained in this part, but only to the extent specifically stated by its
terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law in or with respect to any property.
§ 598.503
Exclusion from licenses.
The Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control reserves the right to exclude any person, property, or transaction from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. The Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon all persons receiving actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.
§ 598.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a specially designated narcotics trafficker has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may only be made to another blocked account held in the same name.

# Note to § 598.504:
Please refer to part 501, subpart C of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 598.206 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
§ 598.505
Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.
Subject to the requirements of § 598.206, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets held in blocked accounts in the name of a specially designated narcotics trafficker, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but in no case may funds be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments are not credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (e.g., through pledging or other use) to the specially designated narcotics trafficker.
§ 598.506
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges authorized.
(a) U.S. financial institutions are authorized to debit any blocked account with such U.S. financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed to such U.S. financial institution by the owner of such blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term
normal service charges
includes but is not limited to charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; minimum balance charges; notary and protest fees; and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
§ 598.507
Provision of certain legal services.
(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of a specially designated narcotics trafficker is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to §§ 598.508 and 598.509, which authorize
certain types of payments for legal services; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons when named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to specially designated narcotics traffickers, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by this paragraph. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by this paragraph do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services.
See
§ 598.405.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 598.202(a), is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 598.507:
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds necessary for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses where alternative funding sources are not available.
[86 FR 26669, May 17, 2021]
§ 598.508
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
(a)
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 598.507(a) to or on behalf of a specially designated narcotics trafficker is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 598.507(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) This paragraph authorizes the blocked person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 598.507(a) are to be provided to make payments for authorized legal services using funds originating outside the United States that were not previously blocked.
(b)
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten five years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[86 FR 26670, May 17, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 103650, Dec. 19, 2024]
§ 598.509
Payment of legal fees and expenses at public expense.
U.S. persons that are attorneys, law firms, or legal services organizations are authorized to receive payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses from public funds for the provision of legal services authorized by § 598.507(a).
[86 FR 26670, May 17, 2021]
§ 598.510
Certain transactions for maintenance, employment, and related banking services for blocked individuals physically located in the United States.
(a) Individuals who are specially designated narcotics traffickers who are in U.S. custody or incarcerated in jails, prisons, or similar facilities in the United States (“covered individuals”), are authorized to engage in the following transactions within the United States:
(1) Purchasing, making payment for, and receiving goods and services for their maintenance and the maintenance of their spouse or persons who are sharing or who would ordinarily share a common dwelling as a family with them, located in the United States, including food, clothing, housing, medical care, education, transportation, insurance, and utilities;
(2) Obtaining or continuing employment and engaging in all transactions ordinarily incident to such employment, including receipt of salary and benefits;
(3) Establishing accounts with a U.S. financial institution, or a commissary-type account with a prison, jail, or other similar facility, located in the United States, for use in connection with the transactions authorized in paragraph (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section; and
(4) Receiving and making funds transfers in furtherance of the authorized transactions set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section from unblocked funds originating within or outside the United States, provided that any funds received may not originate from any individual or entity whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute, other than the covered individual or his or her spouse or persons who are sharing or who would ordinarily share a common dwelling as a family with the covered individual.
(b) Any financial institution that has established any account pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section, excluding commissary-type accounts with prisons, jails, or other similar facilities, must provide the name and address of the financial institution, the name of the account holder, and the account number to OFAC within 10 business days of the establishment of the account.
(c) This general license does not authorize any funds transfers to any location outside the United States.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# ):
A covered individual has an interest in any funds remaining in a commissary-type account with a prison, jail, or other similar facility established pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section after the covered individual is released from custody or incarceration.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
c

# ):
In the case of individuals who are in custody or incarcerated, funds transfers must be authorized by and consistent with the conditions, protocols, and other requirements established by the jail, prison, or other facility.

# Note 3 to § 598.510:
The authorization in this section only applies to laws and regulations administered by OFAC and should not be interpreted to excuse compliance with other applicable laws or regulations, including the immigration laws of the United States.
[86 FR 26670, May 17, 2021]
§ 598.511
Certain transactions for the expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property.
(a) Specially designated narcotics traffickers are authorized to engage in the following transactions:
(1) Making payment for and receiving goods and services for the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 598.202(a); and
(2) Receiving and making funds transfers in furtherance of the authorized transactions set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section from unblocked funds originating outside the United States, provided that any funds received may not originate from any individual or entity whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute, other than the specially designated narcotics trafficker(s) who owns the property.
(b)(1) Any person making payment for or receiving goods and services for the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 598.202(a) authorized by paragraph (a)(1) of this section must file a report on the transactions with OFAC within 30 days of the first transaction related to that property. Such reports shall include the following numbered sections and information:
(i) Estimated or actual dollar value of the transaction(s), as determined by the value of the payment, goods, or services;
(ii) A description of the blocked property;
(iii) The parties involved;
(iv) The type and scope of transactions conducted; and
(iv) The dates and duration of the transactions.
(2) The reports, which must reference this section, are to be submitted to OFAC via email to
OFACReport@treasury.gov
.
[86 FR 26671, May 17, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 15743, Mar. 5, 2024]
§ 598.512
Emergency medical services.
The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.
[86 FR 26671, May 17, 2021]
§ 598.513
Official business of the United States Government.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[87 FR 78482, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 598.514
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(1) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(2) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(3) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(4) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(5) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
(b) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
[87 FR 78482, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 598.515
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities
described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a specially designated narcotics trafficker.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a specially designated narcotics trafficker, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.

# Note 1 to § 598.515.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78506, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 598.516
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.
(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual who is a specially designated narcotics trafficker are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1)
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2)
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3)
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).

# Note 1 to § 598.516.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78506, Dec. 21, 2022]

# Subpart F—Reports
§ 598.601
Records and reports.
For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

# Subpart G—Penalties
§ 598.701
Penalties.
(a) Attention is directed to section 807 of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, which is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, rule, or regulation issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under that Act. Section 807 of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, as adjusted pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note), provides that:
(1) Whoever willfully violates the provisions of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, or any license, rule, or regulation issued pursuant to that Act, or willfully neglects or refuses to comply with any order of the President issued under that Act, shall be imprisoned for not more than 10 years, fined in the amount provided in title 18, United States Code, or both, or, in the case of an entity, fined not more than $10,000,000;
(2) Any officer, director, or agent of any entity who knowingly participates in a violation of the provisions of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, shall be imprisoned for not more than 30 years, fined not more than $5,000,000, or both;
(3) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 807 of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act (21 U.S.C. 1901-1908) per violation may be imposed by the Secretary of the Treasury on any person who violates any license, order, rule, or regulation issued in compliance with the provisions of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act.
(4) The maximum civil penalty is $1,876,699 per violation.
(b)
Adjustments to penalty amounts.
(1) The current civil penalty cap may be adjusted for inflation pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in this part are subject to increase pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Attention is directed to 18 U.S.C. 1001, which provides that whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of any department or agency of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact, or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation, or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned not more than five years, or both.
(d) Violations of this part may also be subject to relevant provisions of other applicable laws.
[65 FR 41336, July 5, 2000, as amended at 68 FR 61361, Oct. 28, 2003; 81 FR 43077, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 10439, Feb. 10, 2017; 83 FR 11881, Mar. 19, 2018; 84 FR 27719, June 14, 2019; 85 FR 19888, Apr. 9, 2020; 86 FR 14539, Mar. 17, 2021; 87 FR 7373, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2234, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2144, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3693, Jan. 15, 2025]
§ 598.702
Prepenalty notice.
(a)
When required.
If the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control has reasonable cause to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, and the Director determines that further proceedings are warranted, the Director shall issue to the person concerned a notice of intent to impose a monetary penalty. This prepenalty notice shall be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to this matter.
(b)
Contents
—(1)
Facts of violation.
The prepenalty notice shall describe the violation, specify the laws and regulations allegedly violated, and state the amount of the proposed monetary penalty.
(2)
Right to respond.
The prepenalty notice also shall inform the respondent of respondent's right to make a written presentation within 30 days of the date of mailing of the notice as to why a monetary penalty should not be imposed or why, if imposed, the monetary penalty should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
§ 598.703
Response to prepenalty notice; informal settlement.
(a)
Deadline for response.
The respondent shall have 30 days from the date of mailing of the prepenalty notice to make a written response to the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
(b)
Form and contents of response.
The written response need not be in any particular form, but must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the prepenalty notice. It should contain responses to the allegations in the prepenalty notice and set forth the reasons why the respondent believes the penalty should not be imposed or why, if imposed, it should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
(c)
Informal settlement.
In addition or as an alternative to a written response to a prepenalty notice issued pursuant to this section, the respondent or respondent's representative may contact the Office of Foreign Assets Control as advised in the prepenalty notice to propose the settlement of allegations contained in the prepenalty notice and related matters. In the event of settlement at the prepenalty stage, the claim proposed in the prepenalty notice will be withdrawn, the respondent will not be required to take a written position on allegations contained in the prepenalty notice, and the Office of Foreign Assets Control will make no final determination as to whether a violation occurred. The amount accepted in settlement of allegations in a prepenalty notice may vary from the civil penalty that might finally be imposed in the event of a formal determination of violation. In the event no settlement is reached, the 30-day period specified in paragraph (a) of this section for written response to the prepenalty notice remains in effect unless additional time is granted by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
§ 598.704
Penalty imposition or withdrawal.
(a)
No violation.
If, after considering any response to a prepenalty notice and any relevant facts, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was no violation by the respondent named in the prepenalty notice, the Director promptly shall notify the respondent in writing of that determination and that no monetary penalty will be imposed.
(b)
Violation.
If, after considering any response to a prepenalty notice and any relevant facts, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was a violation by the respondent named in the prepenalty notice, the Director promptly shall issue a written notice of the imposition of the monetary penalty to the respondent. The issuance of a written notice of the imposition of a monetary penalty shall constitute final agency action.
(1) The penalty notice shall inform the respondent that payment of the assessed penalty must be made within 30 days of the date of mailing of the penalty notice.
(2) The penalty notice shall inform the respondent of the requirement to furnish the respondent's taxpayer identification number pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 7701 and that such number will be used for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent penalty amount.
§ 598.705
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.
In the event that the respondent does not pay a penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control within 30 days of the date of mailing of a penalty notice, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a Federal district court.
§ 598.706
Judicial review of civil penalty.
A civil penalty imposed pursuant to this subpart G is subject to judicial review only to the extent provided in 5 U.S.C. 702.

# Subpart H—Procedures
§ 598.801
Procedures.
For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a), see part 501, subpart E of this chapter.
[65 FR 41336, July 5, 2000, as amended at 68 FR 53660, Sept. 11, 2003]
§ 598.802
Availability of information pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act.
Any record or information obtained or created in the implementation of this part is not subject to disclosure under section 552(a)(3) of the Freedom of Information Act. Information required to be made available to the public under other provisions of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) will be made available in accordance with § 501.805(a) of this chapter.
§ 598.803
Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.
Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, the Presidential Memorandum of May 15, 2015: Delegation of Functions Under the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, or the Presidential Memorandum of May 31, 2013: Delegation of Functions Under Subsection 804(h)(2)(A) of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act may be taken by the Director of the OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.
[86 FR 26671, May 17, 2021]

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
§ 598.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures (including those pursuant to statements of licensing policy), and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
Pt. 599

# PART 599—ILLICIT DRUG TRADE SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
Sec.
599.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
599.201
Prohibited transactions.
599.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
599.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
599.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.
599.205
Exempt transactions.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
599.300
Applicability of definitions.
599.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
599.302
Effective date.
599.303
Entity.
599.304
Financial, material, or technological support.
599.305
Financial institution.
599.306
Foreign person.
599.307
[Reserved]
599.308
Interest.
599.309
Knowingly; knows.
599.310
Licenses; general and specific.
599.311
Means of production.
599.312
OFAC.
599.313
Person.
599.314
Proliferation of illicit drugs.
599.315
Property; property interest.
599.316
Transfer.
599.317
United States.
599.318
United States person; U.S. person.
599.319
U.S. financial institution.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
599.401
[Reserved]
599.402
Effect of amendment.
599.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
599.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
599.405
Setoffs prohibited.
599.406
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
599.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
599.502
Effect of license or other authorization.
599.503
Exclusion from licenses.
599.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
599.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.
599.506
Provision of certain legal services.
599.507
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
599.508
Emergency medical services.
599.509
Official business of the United States Government.
599.510
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
599.511
Certain transactions for maintenance, employment, and related banking services for blocked individuals physically located in the United States.
599.512
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
599.513
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

# Subpart F—Reports
599.601
Records and reports.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation
599.701
Penalties and Findings of Violation.

# Subpart H—Procedures
599.801
Procedures.
599.802
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
599.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
Appendix A to Part 599—Executive Order 14059 of December 15, 2021

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 21 U.S.C. 2301
et seq.;
31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 14059, 86 FR 71549, 3 CFR, 2021 Comp., p. 715.

# Source:
87 FR 77712, Dec. 20, 2022, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
§ 599.101
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant
to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

# Note 1 to § 599.101.
This part has been published in abbreviated form for the purpose of providing immediate guidance to the public. OFAC intends to supplement this part with a more comprehensive set of regulations, which may include additional interpretive guidance and definitions, general licenses, and other regulatory provisions.

# Subpart B—Prohibitions
§ 599.201
Prohibited transactions.
All transactions prohibited pursuant to E.O. 14059 of December 15, 2021, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 14059 are prohibited pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 599.201.
The names of persons designated or identified as blocked pursuant to this section are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifier formulation: “[ILLICIT-DRUGS-E.O.]-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 599.406 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.

# Note 2 to § 599.201.
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifier formulation: “[BPI-[ILLICIT-DRUGS-E.O.]-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”

# Note 3 to § 599.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.

# Note 4 to § 599.201.
The names of persons on whom non-blocking sanctions implemented by the Department of the Treasury are imposed pursuant to this section will be incorporated into a data file containing OFAC's Consolidated Non-SDN data and are provided in a human readable format on OFAC's Non-SDN Menu-Based Sanctions List (NS-MBS List) on the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/consolidated-sanctions-list-non-sdn-lists.
These listings are published in the
Federal Register
and include specific information on the non-blocking sanctions imposed on such persons. However, for any persons on whom blocking and non-blocking sanctions are imposed pursuant to this section, such persons' names are instead incorporated into OFAC's SDN List using the identifier “[ILLICIT-DRUGS-E.O.-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].”

# Note 5 to § 599.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section.
[87 FR 77712, Dec. 20, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 75968, Sept. 17, 2024]
§ 599.202
Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.
(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 599.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right,
remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 599.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 599.201.
§ 599.203
Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, blocked pursuant to § 599.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For the purposes of this section, the term
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of
this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For the purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For the purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become blocked pursuant to § 599.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become blocked pursuant to § 599.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds blocked pursuant to § 599.201 may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.
§ 599.204
Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.
(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 599.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 599.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.
§ 599.205
Exempt transactions.
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
§ 599.300
Applicability of definitions.
The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.
§ 599.301
Blocked account; blocked property.
The terms
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 599.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.

# Note 1 to § 599.301.
See
§ 599.406 concerning the status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201.
§ 599.302
Effective date.
(a) The term
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and with respect to a person
whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201 or on whom other sanctions are imposed, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked or that other sanctions are imposed on such person.
(b) For the purposes of this section,
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property or imposition of other sanctions is published in the
Federal Register
.
§ 599.303
Entity.
The term
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
§ 599.304
Financial, material, or technological support.
The term
financial, material, or technological support
means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
§ 599.305
Financial institution.
The term
financial institution
includes a depository institution (as defined in section 3(c)(l) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(l))), including a branch or agency of a foreign bank (as defined in section 1(b)(7) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3101(7))); a credit union; a securities firm, including a broker or dealer; an insurance company, including an agency or underwriter; and any other company that provides financial services.
§ 599.306
Foreign person.
The term
foreign person
means any citizen or national of a foreign state (including any such individual who is also a citizen or national of the United States, provided such individual does not reside in the United States) or any entity not organized under the laws of the United States.
§ 599.307
[Reserved]
§ 599.308
Interest.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
§ 599.309
Knowingly; knows.
The term
knowingly
or
knows
with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result.
§ 599.310
Licenses; general and specific.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
(c) The term
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.

# Note 1 to § 599.310.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
§ 599.311
Means of production.
The term
means of production
includes any activities or transactions involving any equipment, chemical, product, or material that may be used, directly or indirectly, in the manufacture of illicit drugs or precursor chemicals.
§ 599.312
OFAC.
The term
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
§ 599.313
Person.
The term
person
means an individual or entity.
§ 599.314
Proliferation of illicit drugs.
The term
proliferation of illicit drugs
means any illicit activity to produce, manufacture, distribute, sell, or knowingly finance or transport: narcotic drugs, controlled substances, listed chemicals, or controlled substance analogues, as defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802).
§ 599.315
Property; property interest.
The terms
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
§ 599.316
Transfer.
The term
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
§ 599.317
United States.
The term
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
§ 599.318
United States person; U.S. person.
The term
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
§ 599.319
United States financial institution.
The term
United States financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits,
making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
§ 599.401
[Reserved]
§ 599.402
Effect of amendment.
Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.
§ 599.403
Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.
(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 599.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 599.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.
§ 599.404
Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.
Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(a) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201; or
(b) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
§ 599.405
Setoffs prohibited.
A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. financial institution or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 599.201 if effected after the effective date.
§ 599.406
Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.
Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201, regardless of whether the
name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

# Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
§ 599.501
General and specific licensing procedures.
For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Counter Narcotics Trafficking sanctions page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
§ 599.502
Effect of license or other authorization.
(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. Government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. Government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.
§ 599.503
Exclusion from licenses.
OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.
§ 599.504
Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.
Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account
on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.

# Note 1 to § 599.504.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 599.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
§ 599.505
Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.
(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
§ 599.506
Provision of certain legal services.
(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 599.507, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services.
See
§ 599.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 599.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.

# Note 1 to § 599.506.
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.
§ 599.507
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.
(a)
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 599.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 599.506(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b)
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[87 FR 77712, Dec. 20, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 103651, Dec. 19, 2024]
§ 599.508
Emergency medical services.
The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.
§ 599.509
Official business of the United States Government.
All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
§ 599.510
Official business of certain international organizations and entities.
(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(1) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(2) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(3) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing; and
(4) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.
§ 599.511
Certain transactions for maintenance, employment, and related banking services for blocked individuals physically located in the United States.
(a) Individuals whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201 who are in U.S. custody or incarcerated in jails, prisons, or similar facilities in the United States (“covered individuals”), are authorized to engage in the following transactions within the United States:
(1) Purchasing, making payment for, and receiving goods and services for their maintenance and the maintenance of their spouse or persons who would ordinarily share a common dwelling as a family with them, located in the United States, including food, clothing, housing, medical care, education, transportation, insurance, and utilities;
(2) Obtaining or continuing employment and engaging in all transactions ordinarily incident to such employment, including receipt of salary and benefits;
(3) Establishing accounts with a U.S. financial institution, or a commissary-type account with a prison, jail, or other similar facility, located in the United States, for use in connection with the transactions authorized in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section; and
(4) Receiving and making funds transfers in furtherance of the authorized transactions set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section from unblocked funds originating within or outside the United States, provided that any funds received may not originate from any individual or entity whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute, other than the covered individual or his or her spouse or persons who would ordinarily share a common dwelling as a family with the covered individual.
(b) Any financial institution that has established any account pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section, excluding commissary-type accounts with prisons, jails, or other similar facilities, must provide the name and address of the financial institution, the name of the account holder, and the account number to OFAC within 10 business days of the establishment of the account.
(c) This general license does not authorize any funds transfers to any location outside the United States.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# ).
A covered individual has an interest in any funds remaining in a commissary-type account with a prison, jail, or other similar facility established pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section after the covered individual is released from custody or incarceration.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
c

# ).
In the case of individuals who are in custody or incarcerated, funds transfers must be authorized by and consistent with the conditions, protocols, and other requirements established by the jail, prison, or other facility.

# Note 3 to § 599.511.
The authorization in this section only applies to laws and regulations administered by OFAC and should not be interpreted to excuse compliance with other applicable laws or regulations, including the immigration laws of the United States.
§ 599.512
Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation,
government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.

# Note 1 to § 599.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78506, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 599.513
Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.
(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1)
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2)
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3)
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).

# Note 1 to § 599.513.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder
from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[87 FR 78507, Dec. 21, 2022]

# Subpart F—Reports
§ 599.601
Records and reports.
For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation
§ 599.701
Penalties and Findings of Violation.
(a) The penalties available under section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) (IEEPA), as adjusted annually pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note) or, in the case of criminal violations, as adjusted pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571, are applicable to violations of the provisions of this part.
(b) OFAC has the authority, pursuant to IEEPA, to issue Pre-Penalty Notices, Penalty Notices, and Findings of Violation; impose monetary penalties; engage in settlement discussions and enter into settlements; refer matters to the United States Department of Justice for administrative collection; and, in appropriate circumstances, refer matters to appropriate law enforcement agencies for criminal investigation and/or prosecution. For more information, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, which provides a general framework for the enforcement of all economic sanctions programs administered by OFAC, including enforcement-related definitions, types of responses to apparent violations, general factors affecting administrative actions, civil penalties for failure to comply with a requirement to furnish information or keep records, and other general civil penalties information.

# Subpart H—Procedures
§ 599.801
Procedures.
For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
§ 599.802
Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.
Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to E.O. 14059 of December 15, 2021, and any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared therein, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

# Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act
§ 599.901
Paperwork Reduction Act notice.
For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
Pt. 599, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 599—Executive Order 14059 of December 15, 2021

# Executive Order 14059 of December 15, 2021

# Imposing Sanctions on Foreign Persons Involved in the Global Illicit Drug Trade
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) (NEA), the Fentanyl Sanctions Act (21 U.S.C. 2301
et seq.
) (FSA), sections 212(f) and 215(a)
of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185(a)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of America, find that the trafficking into the United States of illicit drugs, including fentanyl and other synthetic opioids, is causing the deaths of tens of thousands of Americans annually, as well as countless more non-fatal overdoses with their own tragic human toll. Drug cartels, transnational criminal organizations, and their facilitators are the primary sources of illicit drugs and precursor chemicals that fuel the current opioid epidemic, as well as drug-related violence that harms our communities. I find that international drug trafficking—including the illicit production, global sale, and widespread distribution of illegal drugs; the rise of extremely potent drugs such as fentanyl and other synthetic opioids; as well as the growing role of internet-based drug sales—constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. This serious threat requires our country to modernize and update our response to drug trafficking. I hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat.
Accordingly, I hereby order:
Section 1.
(a) The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to impose any of the sanctions described in section 2 of this order on any foreign person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland Security:
(i) to have engaged in, or attempted to engage in, activities or transactions that have materially contributed to, or pose a significant risk of materially contributing to, the international proliferation of illicit drugs or their means of production; or
(ii) to have knowingly received any property or interest in property that the foreign person knows:
(A) constitutes or is derived from proceeds of activities or transactions that have materially contributed to, or pose a significant risk of materially contributing to, the international proliferation of illicit drugs or their means of production; or
(B) was used or intended to be used to commit or to facilitate activities or transactions that have materially contributed to, or pose a significant risk of materially contributing to, the international proliferation of illicit drugs or their means of production.
(b) The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to impose any of the sanctions described in section 2 of this order on any foreign person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland Security:
(i) to have provided, or attempted to provide, financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of:
(A) any activity or transaction described in subsection (a)(i) of this section; or
(B) any sanctioned person;
(ii) to be or have been a leader or official of any sanctioned person or of any foreign person that has engaged in any activity or transaction described in subsection (a)(i) of this section; or
(iii) to be owned, controlled, or directed by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any sanctioned person.
(c) The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to impose any of the sanctions described in section 2 of this order consistent with the requirements of section 7212 of the FSA (21 U.S.C. 2312) on any foreign person determined by the President, or by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to authority delegated by the President and in accordance with the terms of such delegation, to be subject to sanctions pursuant to section 7212 of the FSA.
Sec. 2.
When the Secretary of the Treasury, in accordance with the terms of section 1 of this order, has determined that a foreign person meets any of the criteria in section 1(a)-(c) of this order, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, is authorized to select one or more of the sanctions set forth in subsections (a)(i)-(vi) of this section to impose on that foreign person.
(a) The Secretary of the Treasury shall take the following actions as necessary to implement the selected sanctions:
(i) block all property and interests in property of the sanctioned person that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person, and provide that such property and interests in property may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in;
(ii) prohibit any transfers of credit or payments between financial institutions, or by, through, or to any financial institution, to the extent that such transfers or payments are subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and involve any interest of the sanctioned person;
(iii) prohibit any United States financial institution from making loans or providing credit to the sanctioned person;
(iv) prohibit any transactions in foreign exchange that are subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and in which the sanctioned person has any interest;
(v) prohibit any United States person from investing in or purchasing significant amounts of equity or debt instruments of the sanctioned person; or
(vi) impose on the principal executive officer or officers of the sanctioned person, or on persons performing similar functions and with similar authorities as such officer or officers, any of the sanctions described in subsections (a)(i)-(v) of this section that are applicable.
(b) The heads of the relevant executive departments and agencies, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, shall take the following actions as necessary and appropriate to implement the sanctions selected by the Secretary of the Treasury:
(i) with respect to a sanctioned person that is a financial institution:
(A) the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York shall not designate, and shall rescind any prior designation of, the sanctioned person as a primary dealer in United States Government debt instruments; and
(B) the sanctioned person shall not serve as an agent of the United States Government or serve as a repository for United States Government funds;
(ii) actions required to ensure that executive departments and agencies shall not procure, or enter into a contract for the procurement of, any goods or services from the sanctioned person;
(iii) actions required to suspend entry into the United States of any noncitizen whom the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, determines is a leader, official, senior executive officer, or director of, or a shareholder with a controlling interest in, the sanctioned person; or
(iv) actions required to impose on the principal executive officer or officers of the sanctioned person, or on persons performing similar functions and with similar authorities as such officer or officers, any of the sanctions described in subsections (b)(i)-(iii) of this section that are applicable.
Sec. 3.
The prohibitions in section 2 of this order apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order.
Sec. 4.
(a) The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of noncitizens determined to meet any of the criteria in section l(a)-(c) of this order, and for whom the sanctions described in section 2(a)(i) or 2(b)(iii) of this order have been selected, would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and the entry of such persons into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended, except when the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland Security, as appropriate, determines that the person's entry would not be contrary to the interests of the United States, including when the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland Security, as appropriate, so determines, based on a recommendation of the Attorney General, that the person's entry would further important United States law enforcement objectives.
(b) The Secretary of State shall implement this order as it applies to visas pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, may establish.
(c) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall implement this order as it applies to the entry of noncitizens pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of State, may establish.
(d) Such persons shall be treated by this section in the same manner as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions).
Sec. 5.
The prohibitions in section 2(a)(i) of this order include:
(a) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and
(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.
Sec. 6.
(a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 7.
I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 2(a) of this order.
Sec. 8.
For the purpose of this order:
(a) the term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;
(b) the term “financial institution” includes a depository institution (as defined in section 3(c)(l) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(l))), including a branch or agency of a foreign bank (as defined in section 1(b)(7) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3101(7))); a credit union; a securities firm, including a
broker or dealer; an insurance company, including an agency or underwriter; and any other company that provides financial services;
(c) the term “foreign person” means any citizen or national of a foreign state (including any such individual who is also a citizen or national of the United States, provided such individual does not reside in the United States) or any entity not organized under the laws of the United States;
(d) the term “knowingly” or “knows” with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result;
(e) the phrase “means of production” includes any activities or transactions involving any equipment, chemical, product, or material that may be used, directly or indirectly, in the manufacture of illicit drugs or precursor chemicals;
(f) the term “noncitizen” means any person who is not a citizen or noncitizen national of the United States;
(g) the term “person” means an individual or entity;
(h) the term “proliferation of illicit drugs” means any illicit activity to produce, manufacture, distribute, sell, or knowingly finance or transport: narcotic drugs, controlled substances, listed chemicals, or controlled substance analogues, as defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802);
(i) the term “sanctioned person” means any person sanctioned pursuant to this order;
(j) the term “United States financial institution” means a financial institution (including its foreign branches) organized under the laws of the United States or of any jurisdiction within the United States or located in the United States; and
(k) the term “United States person” means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
Sec. 9.
For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for those measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to this order.
Sec. 10.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, is authorized to take such actions, including promulgating rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by the FSA or IEEPA as may be necessary to implement this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All executive departments and agencies shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement the provisions of this order.
Sec. 11.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 12.
(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
THE WHITE HOUSE,
December 15, 2021.
Ch. V, App. A

# Appendix A to Chapter V—Information Pertaining to the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 8 U.S.C. 1182, 1189; 18 U.S.C. 2339B; 21 U.S.C. 1901-1908; 22 U.S.C. 287c; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 22 U.S.C. 9201-9255; 22 U.S.C. 10101-10103; 50 U.S.C. App. 1-44; Pub. L. 110-286, 122 Stat. 2632 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); Pub. L. 111-195, 124 Stat. 1312 (22 U.S.C. 8501-8551); Pub. L.112-81, 125 Stat. 1298 (22 U.S.C. 8513a); Pub. L. 112-158, 126 Stat. 1214 (22 U.S.C. 8701-8795); Pub. L. 112-208, 126 Stat. 1502 (22 U.S.C. 5811 note); Pub. L. 113-278, 128 Stat. 3011 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); Pub. L. 114-102, 129 Stat. 2205 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); Pub. L. 114-194, 130 Stat. 674 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); Pub. L. 115-44, 131 Stat. 886 (codified in scattered sections of 22 U.S.C.).
The Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) maintains on its Web site a list of blocked persons, blocked vessels, specially designated nationals, specially designated terrorists, specially designated global terrorists, foreign terrorist organizations, and specially designated narcotics traffickers whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the various economic sanctions programs administered by OFAC. This Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (“SDN List”) is updated frequently and at irregular intervals to incorporate changes reflected in notices of blocking, designation, identification, and delisting actions, all of which are published in the
Federal Register.
The SDN List is available in a variety of formats for review on, or download from, the following location on OFAC's Web site:
http://www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Members of the public may also sign up through OFAC's Web site to receive e-mail notifications of changes to the SDN List.
In addition to accessing information through OFAC's Web site, the public may contact OFAC's Compliance Division, at 202/622-2490 or 800/540-6322 (toll-free), for information on blocking, designation, identification, and delisting actions. The public also may contact OFAC in writing at the following address: Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220.
Notes:
The SDN List provides the following information (to the extent known) concerning blocked persons, specially designated nationals, specially designated terrorists, specially designated global terrorists, foreign terrorist organizations, specially designated narcotics traffickers and blocked vessels:
1. For blocked individuals: Name and title (known aliases); address(es); other identifying information, such as date of birth, place of birth, nationality, and passport or national identification number; the notation “(individual)”; and [sanctions program under which the individual is blocked].
2. For blocked entities: Name (known former or alternate names); address(es); other identifying information, such as national tax identification number(s); and [sanctions program under which the entity is blocked].
3. For blocked vessels: Name (known former or alternate names); other identifying information, such as International Maritime Organization number, country of registration or flag, vessel type, size in dead weight and/or gross tons, call sign, vessel owner; the notation “(vessel)”; and [sanctions program under which the vessel is blocked].
4. Abbreviations. “a.k.a.” means “also known as”; “d.b.a.” means “doing business as”; “f.k.a.” means “formerly known as”; “IMO” means “International Maritime Organization”; “n.k.a.” means “now known as”; “DOB” means “date of birth”; “DWT” means “deadweight”; “GRT” means “Gross Registered Tonnage”; “POB” means “place of birth”.
5. Notices of blocking, designation, identification, and delisting actions are published in the
Federal Register
frequently and at irregular intervals. Updated information on OFAC blocking, designation, identification, and delisting actions is provided on OFAC's Web site (
http://www.treasury.gov/ofac
). In addition, such information is incorporated on an ongoing basis into OFAC's SDN List, which is available for review on, or download from, the following location on OFAC's Web site:
http://www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Please call OFAC's Compliance Division with questions about OFAC-administered sanctions programs, including current electronic sources of OFAC information: 202/622-2490 or 800/540-6322 (toll-free). Updated information on OFAC designations and other OFAC actions should be consulted before engaging in transactions that may be prohibited by the economic sanctions programs in chapter V.
6. Specific licenses previously issued by OFAC may include references to appendix A or appendix B to 31 CFR chapter V. OFAC hereby notifies persons who have been issued specific licenses by OFAC that any reference to appendix A to 31 CFR chapter V or Appendix B to 31 CFR chapter V in an outstanding specific license shall be read to refer to the SDN List. The SDN List is available for review on or download from the following location on OFAC's Web site:
http://www.treasury.gov/sdn.
7. The SDN List incorporates the names of vessels owned by blocked persons, which are themselves blocked. SDN List entries for blocked vessels, which include the notation “(vessel),” are incorporated in alphabetical order into the SDN List. In addition, these entries are segregated into a separate sub-section of the SDN List under the heading “(vessels).” Except in limited circumstances, financial institutions are instructed to reject any funds transfer referencing a blocked vessel and must notify OFAC, preferably via facsimile at 202/622-2426 with a copy of the payment instructions, that funds have been returned to remitter due to the possible involvement of a blocked vessel in the underlying transaction.
See
§ 501.604(b)(1) of this chapter. Financial institutions should contact OFAC's Compliance Division, at 202/622-2490 or 800/540-6322 (toll-free), for further instructions should the name of a blocked vessel appear in shipping documents presented under a letter of credit or if noticed in a documentary collection. Blocked vessels must themselves be physically blocked should they enter U.S. jurisdiction. Freight forwarders and shippers may not charter, book
cargo on, or otherwise deal with blocked vessels.
8. The SDN List includes the names of persons identified as the
Government of Iran
or an
Iranian financial institution
and other persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 of the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 560 (ITSR). The SDN List entries for such persons include the identifier “[IRAN].” U.S. persons are advised to review 31 CFR part 560 prior to engaging in transactions involving the persons included on the SDN List with the identifier “[IRAN].” U.S. persons are further cautioned that persons identified as the
Government of Iran
or an
Iranian financial institution
and any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to 31 CFR 560.211 also may be designated or blocked pursuant to other sanctions programs administered by OFAC. The SDN List entry for such a person may include—in addition to the identifier “[IRAN]”—identifier(s) for the other sanctions program(s) pursuant to which the person is listed on the SDN List. Moreover, the prohibitions set forth in the ITSR, and the compliance obligations, with respect to persons who meet the definition of the
Government of Iran
in § 560.304 of the ITSR or the definition of
Iranian financial institution
in § 560.324 of the ITSR apply regardless of whether such persons are identified on the SDN List.
[76 FR 38545, June 30, 2011, as amended at 77 FR 64691, Oct. 22, 2012; 81 FR 3333, Jan. 21, 2016; 81 FR 76863, Nov. 4, 2016; 83 FR 55271, Nov. 5, 2018; 89 FR 15743, Mar. 5, 2024]
31 CFR Ch. VI (7-1-25 Edition)
Bur. of Engraving and Printing, Treas.

# CHAPTER VI—BUREAU OF ENGRAVING AND PRINTING, DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
Part
Page
600
[Reserved]
601
Distinctive paper and distinctive counterfeit deterrents for United States Federal Reserve notes
933
605
Regulations governing conduct in Bureau of Engraving and Printing buildings and on the grounds of Washington, DC and Fort Worth, Texas
933
606-699
[Reserved]
PART 600 [RESERVED]
Pt. 601

# PART 601—DISTINCTIVE PAPER AND DISTINCTIVE COUNTERFEIT DETERRENTS FOR UNITED STATES FEDERAL RESERVE NOTES
601.1
Notice and scope.
601.2
Distinctiveness requirement.
601.3
Distinctive paper.
601.4
Distinctive counterfeit deterrents.
601.5
Penalty for unauthorized control or possession.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 418, 421; 18 U.S.C. 474A; 31 U.S.C. 321.

# Source:
88 FR 43063, July 6, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 601.1
Notice and scope.
The regulation in this part governs the distinctive paper and distinctive counterfeit deterrents adopted by the Secretary of the Treasury for United States Federal Reserve notes, which are subject to 18 U.S.C. 474A. The Director of Bureau of Engraving and Printing, by delegated authority, hereby gives notice of the distinctive paper and distinctive counterfeit deterrents adopted by the Secretary of the Treasury.
§ 601.2
Distinctiveness requirement.
(a) The Secretary of the Treasury has adopted distinctive paper and distinctive counterfeit deterrents:
(1) In which the United States has an exclusive property interest; or
(2) That are not otherwise in commercial use or the public domain and are necessary for preventing the counterfeiting of United States Federal Reserve notes.
(b) The distinctive paper and counterfeit deterrents are used in United States Federal Reserve notes.
§ 601.3
Distinctive paper.
The distinctive paper is a cream-white currency note paper with fibers, colored red and blue, evenly distributed throughout the currency note paper. The distinctive paper shall contain distinctive counterfeit deterrents in the currency note paper denominations prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury.
§ 601.4
Distinctive counterfeit deterrents.
The distinctive counterfeit deterrents that may be used in the denominations of United States Federal Reserve notes as prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury are:
(a) Security threads containing graphics consisting of the designation “USA” and the denomination of the currency note, expressed in alphabetic or numeric characters.
(b) Optically variable inks with material characteristics.
(c) Non-visual characteristic inks with material characteristics.
(d) Optically variable thread (three-dimensional (3-D) security ribbon and micro-optic stripe) visible in front or back of the currency note.
(e) Non-visual characteristic features with material characteristics.
§ 601.5
Penalty for Unauthorized Control or Possession.
(a) Control or possession of distinctive paper and/or distinctive counterfeit deterrents adopted in §§ 601.3 and 601.4 require authorization by the Secretary of the Treasury.
(b) The penalty for unauthorized control and/or possession of distinctive paper and/or distinctive counterfeit deterrents adopted in §§ 601.3 and 601.4 is found at 18 U.S.C. 474A.
Pt. 605

# PART 605—REGULATIONS GOVERNING CONDUCT IN BUREAU OF ENGRAVING AND PRINTING BUILDINGS AND ON THE GROUNDS OF WASHINGTON, DC AND FORT WORTH, TEXAS

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; Delegation, Administrator, General Services, dated December 3, 1992; Treasury Delegation, Assistant Secretary (Management), dated February 4, 1993.
§ 605.1
Conduct on Bureau of Engraving and Printing property.
(a)
Applicability.
These regulations apply to the buildings and grounds of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing (BEP) located in Washington, DC, at 14th and C Streets SW., and in Fort Worth, Texas, at 9000 Blue Mound Road, and to all persons entering on
such property. Unless otherwise stated, BEP buildings and grounds are referred to in these regulations as the “property.”
(b)
Limited access.
(1) The property is a high-security facility and shall, in general, be closed to the public. Except as specified in this paragraph (b), access is limited to BEP employees and those persons having official business with BEP. Failure to comply with any regulations of this part may result in denial of access or removal from the property.
(2) Public tours of limited areas of the property are available during such times as the Director may prescribe.
(3) Limited areas of the property may be open to persons authorized by the Director or the Director's designee.
(4) All persons entering and exiting the property may be required to present suitable identification and may be required to sign entry logs or registers.
(5) All persons entering and exiting the property may be subject to screening devices and shall submit to screening upon request by BEP Police or authorized officials.
(6) All persons entering and exiting the property may be subject to search or inspection of their person, handbags, briefcases, and other handheld articles by BEP Police or authorized officials. All persons on the property may be subject to additional search or inspection by BEP Police or authorized officials upon entry, exit, and request.
(7) All motor vehicles entering, exiting, or located on the property are subject to search or inspection of the exterior and interior compartments by BEP Police or authorized officials at any time.
(8) All lockers, cabinets, closets, desks or similar storage areas on the property are subject to search or inspection by BEP Police or authorized officials.
(9) All computers, data storage devices, and data files owned or controlled by BEP are subject to search or inspection at any time.
(10) Any entrance onto the property without official permission is prohibited.
(c)
Video monitoring.
All persons entering, exiting, and on the property will be monitored by video. Most internal areas of the property, especially production areas, are continuously monitored by video. Any video image may be recorded.
(d)
Preservation of property.
It shall be unlawful for any person, without proper authority, to willfully destroy, damage, deface, or remove property.
(e)
Compliance with instructions and signs.
All persons on the property shall comply with the instructions of BEP Police, authorized officials, and posted signs or notices.
(f)
Nuisances.
The use of loud, abusive, or profane language, loitering, unauthorized assembly, the creation of any hazard to persons or property, improper disposal of rubbish, spitting, prurient prying, the commission of any obscene or indecent act, or any other disorderly conduct on the property is prohibited. The throwing of any articles of any kind in, upon, or from the property and climbing upon any unauthorized portion of the property is prohibited.
(g)
Gambling.
(1) Participation in games for money or other property, the operation of gambling devices, the conduct of a lottery or pool, the selling or purchasing of numbers, tickets, or any other gambling on the property is prohibited.
(2) Possession on the property of any numbers slip or ticket, record, notation, receipt or other writing of a type ordinarily used in any illegal form of gambling, unless explained to the satisfaction of the Director or the Director's designee, shall be evidence of participation in an illegal form of gambling on the property.
(h)
Intoxicating substances, illegal narcotics, and other controlled substances.
The possession, use, consumption, or being under the influence of intoxicating substances, illegal narcotics, and other controlled substances (see 21 CFR part 1308) while entering and on the property is prohibited. BEP Police may direct a person to complete a field sobriety test or breathalyzer test upon reasonable suspicion of intoxication or influence. The Director may authorize the possession, use, and consumption of alcoholic beverages on BEP property for infrequent, special occasions. Such authorization must be in writing.
(i)
Soliciting, vending, debt collection, and distribution of handbills.
Fundraising for any cause other than the Combined Federal Campaign or other cause authorized by the Office of Personnel Management, the commercial soliciting and vending of all kinds, the display or distribution of commercial advertising, or the collecting of private debts other than as provided by law, in or on the property is prohibited. This rule does not apply to BEP concessions or notices posted by authorized employees on the bulletin boards. Distribution of material such as pamphlets, handbills, and flyers is prohibited without prior approval from the Director or the Director's designee.
(j)
Photographs and recordings.
The taking of photographs on the property is prohibited without permission of the Director or the Director's designee. The taking of voice or video recordings on the property is prohibited without the permission of the Director or the Director's designee.
Note:
The property includes the Tour and Visitor Center and the limited areas accessible for public tour.
(k)
Animals.
Animals, except service animals, shall not be brought on the property for other than official purposes.
(l)
Vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
(1) Drivers of all vehicles on the property shall drive in a careful and safe manner at all times and shall comply with the signals and directions of BEP Police and all posted traffic signs. Drivers are subject to all applicable motor vehicle laws and regulations of the surrounding jurisdiction.
(2) The blocking of entrances, driveways, walks, loading platforms, fire hydrants, or standpipes on the property is prohibited.
(3) Parking on the property is not allowed without a permit or authority. Parking without a permit or authority, not in accordance with a permit or authority, or contrary to the direction of BEP Police, authorized officials, and posted signs or notices is prohibited.
(m)
Weapons and explosives.
No person on the property shall carry firearms, explosives, or other dangerous or deadly weapons as defined by Title 18 United States Code, either openly or concealed, except for official purposes.
(n)
Smoking.
Smoking on the property is not permitted except in designated smoking areas.
(o)
Penalties and other law.
(1) Violations of this part shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $5,000 or the maximum extent allowable under the United States Code, whichever is greater, or imprisonment of not more than 30 days, or both in accordance with 40 United States Code, Section 1315.
(2) Violations of 18 United States Code, Section 930 (dangerous weapon clause) shall be punishable by a fine of $100,000 or imprisonment for not more than a year, or both, unless there is intent to commit a crime with the weapon, in which case the punishment shall be a fine of $250,000 or imprisonment for not more than five years, or both.
(3) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to abrogate any other Federal, District of Columbia, or Texas law or regulations, or any Tarrant County ordinance applicable to the property.
[81 FR 11432, Mar. 4, 2016]
PARTS 606-699 [RESERVED]
31 CFR Ch. VII (7-1-25 Edition)
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Treasury

# CHAPTER VII—FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT TRAINING CENTER, DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
Part
Page
700
Regulations governing conduct in or on the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) buildings and grounds
939
701-799
[Reserved]
Pt. 700

# PART 700—REGULATIONS GOVERNING CONDUCT IN OR ON THE FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT TRAINING CENTER (FLETC) BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS
Sec.
700.2
Applicability.
700.3
Recording presence.
700.4
Preservation of property.
700.5
Compliance with signs and directions.
700.6
Nuisances.
700.7
Alcoholic beverages, narcotics, and drugs.
700.8
Soliciting, vending, debt collection, and distribution of handbills.
700.9
Photographs for news, advertising, or commercial purposes.
700.10
Vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
700.11
Weapons and explosives.
700.12
Authority to search persons and vehicles.
700.13
Nondiscrimination.
700.14
Smoking.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321; Treasury Department Order No. 140-01, dated September 20, 1994; 41 FR 5869, dated Feb. 10, 1996.

# Source:
63 FR 39730, July 24, 1998, unless otherwise noted.
§ 700.2
Applicability.
The regulations in this part apply to the buildings and surrounding property of the FLETC, Glynco, Georgia; Artesia, New Mexico; FLECT's Washington Office; any other temporary site FLETC may occupy; and to all persons entering such buildings or property.
§ 700.3
Recording presence.
Except as otherwise ordered, the property shall be closed to the general public. Admission to the property will be limited to authorized individuals who will be required to obtain a visitor's pass and/or display identification documents, in accordance with FLETC policy.
§ 700.4
Preservation of property.
It shall be unlawful for any person without proper authority to willfully destroy, damage, deface, or remove property (including Federal records) or any part thereof or any furnishing therein.
§ 700.5
Compliance with signs and directions.
Persons in and on the property shall comply with the instructions of uniformed FLETC security officers, other authorized officials, official signs of a prohibitory or directory nature, and all applicable statutes and regulations.
§ 700.6
Nuisances.
The use of loud, abusive, or profane language, except as part of an authorized practical training exercise, unwarranted loitering, unauthorized assembly, the creation of any hazard to persons or things, improper disposal of rubbish, or the commission of any disorderly conduct on the property is prohibited. Prohibited actions in the preceding sentence are limited to those actions which impede, obstruct, or otherwise interfere with the Government's business which includes, among other things, the maintenance of the facility, protection of persons and property, and the smooth administration of academic activities and supporting services. The entry, without specific permission, upon any part of the property to which authorized visitors do not customarily have access, is prohibited.
§ 700.7
Alcoholic beverages, narcotics, and drugs.
Entering or being on the property, or operating a motor vehicle thereon, by a person under the influence of alcoholic beverages, narcotics, hallucinogenic or dangerous drugs, or marijuana is prohibited. The possession or use of any unlawful drug or substance contrary to the provisions of Federal, State, or local law in or on the property is prohibited.
§ 700.8
Soliciting, vending, debt collection and distribution of handbills.
The unauthorized soliciting for charity and contributions, commercial soliciting and vending of all kinds, the display or distribution of commercial advertising, or the collecting of private debts, other than legal service of process, in or on the property, is prohibited. This prohibition does not apply to Federal Law Enforcement Training Center concessions or notices posted by authorized employees on the bulletin boards. Distribution of material such
as pamphlets, handbills, and flyers is prohibited without prior approval of the Director.
§ 700.9
Photographs for news, advertising, or commercial purposes.
Photographs for news, advertising, or commercial purposes may be taken on the property only with the prior permission of the Director. Taking photographs of a student is prohibited without the consent of the student.
§ 700.10
Vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
(a) Drivers of all vehicles on the property shall drive in a careful and safe manner at all times and shall comply with the signals and directions of security officers and all posted traffic signs. All persons on the property must comply with all applicable Federal, State, and local laws. All drivers operating a vehicle on property roadways must possess a valid driver's license.
(b) The blocking of entrances, driveways, walks, loading platforms, or fire-hydrants in or on the property is prohibited.
(c) Parking is permitted only in authorized locations.
(d) This section may be supplemented from time to time by the Director by the issuance and posting of traffic directives. When so issued and posted, such directives shall have the same force and effect as if made a part hereof.
§ 700.11
Weapons and explosives.
No person, while on the property, shall carry firearms, other dangerous or deadly weapons, or explosives, either openly or concealed, except for authorized training or official purposes, in accordance with FLETC regulations.
§ 700.12
Authority to search persons and vehicles.
Persons and vehicles entering upon FLETC facilities are subject to search by authorized security officers.
§ 700.13
Nondiscrimination.
(a) No one entering upon FLETC property shall discriminate against or harass any other person on such property, on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, age, or disability, Sexual harassment is a form of sex discrimination and is expressly prohibited.
(b) Appropriate action will be taken against any person who violates any discrimination prohibition contained in paragraph (a) of this section. However, this section does not create any legal rights enforceable against the Department of the Treasury, its officers, or employees, or any other person. Although this section does not create any enforceable rights, actions in violation of the section may still result in civil or criminal action in accordance with applicable laws.
§ 700.14
Smoking.
Smoking of cigarettes, cigars and pipes is prohibited in all FLETC buildings and vehicles.
PARTS 701-799 [RESERVED]
31 CFR Ch. VIII (7-1-25 Edition)
Office of Investment Security, Treasury

# CHAPTER VIII—OFFICE OF INVESTMENT SECURITY, DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
Part
Page
800
Regulations pertaining to certain investments in the United States by foreign persons
943
801
Pilot program to review certain transactions involving foreign persons and critical technologies
1006
802
Regulations pertaining to certain transactions by foreign persons involving real estate in the United States
1019
803-849
[Reserved]
1063
850
Provisions Pertaining to U.S. Investments in certain national security technologies and products in countries of concern
1063
851-899
[Reserved]
Pt. 800

# PART 800—REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO CERTAIN INVESTMENTS IN THE UNITED STATES BY FOREIGN PERSONS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
800.101
Scope.
800.102
Risk-based analysis.
800.103
Effect on other law.
800.104
Applicability rule.
800.105
Rules of construction and interpretation.

# Subpart B—Definitions
800.201
Aggregated data.
800.202
Anonymized data.
800.203
Business day.
800.204
Certification.
800.205
Committee; Chairperson of the Committee; Staff Chairperson.
800.206
Completion date.
800.207
Contingent equity interest.
800.208
Control.
800.209
Conversion.
800.210
Covered control transaction.
800.211
Covered investment.
800.212
Covered investment critical infrastructure.
800.213
Covered transaction.
800.214
Critical infrastructure.
800.215
Critical technologies.
800.216
Encrypted data.
800.217
Entity.
800.218
Excepted foreign state.
800.219
Excepted investor.
800.220
Foreign entity.
800.221
Foreign government.
800.222
Foreign government-controlled transaction.
800.223
Foreign national.
800.224
Foreign person.
800.225
Hold.
800.226
Identifiable data.
800.227
Investment.
800.228
Investment fund.
800.229
Involvement.
800.230
Lead agency.
800.231
Manufacture.
800.232
Material nonpublic technical information.
800.233
Minimum excepted ownership.
800.234
Own.
800.235
Parent.
800.236
Party to a transaction.
800.237
Person.
800.238
Personal identifier.
800.239
Principal place of business.
800.240
Section 721.
800.241
Sensitive personal data.
800.242
Service.
800.243
Solely for the purpose of passive investment.
800.244
Substantial interest.
800.245
Substantive decisionmaking.
800.246
Supply.
800.247
Targets or tailors.
800.248
TID U.S. business.
800.249
Transaction.
800.250
Unaffiliated TID U.S. business.
800.251
United States.
800.252
U.S. business.
800.253
U.S. national.
800.254
U.S. regulatory authorization.
800.255
Voting interest.
800.256
Voting interest for purposes of critical technology mandatory declarations.

# Subpart C—Coverage
800.301
Transactions that are covered control transactions.
800.302
Transactions that are not covered control transactions.
800.303
Transactions that are covered investments.
800.304
Transactions that are not covered investments.
800.305
Incremental acquisitions.
800.306
Lending transactions.
800.307
Specific clarification for investment funds.
800.308
Timing rule for a contingent equity interest.

# Subpart D—Declarations
800.401
Mandatory declarations.
800.402
Voluntary declarations.
800.403
Procedures for declarations.
800.404
Contents of declarations.
800.405
Beginning of 30-day assessment period.
800.406
Rejection, disposition, or withdrawal of declarations.
800.407
Committee actions.

# Subpart E—Notices
800.501
Procedures for notices.
800.502
Contents of voluntary notices.
800.503
Beginning of 45-day review period.
800.504
Deferral, rejection, or disposition of certain voluntary notices.
800.505
Determination of whether to undertake an investigation.
800.506
Determination not to undertake an investigation.
800.507
Commencement of investigation.
800.508
Completion or termination of investigation and report to the President.
800.509
Withdrawal of notices.

# Subpart F—Committee Procedures
800.601
General.
800.602
Role of the Secretary of Labor.
800.603
Materiality.
800.604
Tolling of deadlines during lapse in appropriations.

# Subpart G—Finality of Action
800.701
Finality of actions under section 721.

# Subpart H—Provision and Handling of Information
800.801
Obligation of parties or other persons to provide information.
800.802
Confidentiality.

# Subpart I—Penalties and Damages
800.901
Penalties and damages.
800.902
Effect of lack of compliance.

# Subpart J—Foreign National Security Investment Review Regimes
800.1001
Determinations.
800.1002
Effect of determinations.

# Subpart K—Filing Fees
800.1101
Amount of fee.
800.1102
Timing of payment.
800.1103
Valuation.
800.1104
Manner of payment.
800.1105
Refunds.
800.1106
Waiver.
800.1107
Refilings.
800.1108
Rejection of voluntary notice.
Appendix A to Part 800—Covered Investment Critical Infrastructure and Functions Related to Covered Investment Critical Infrastructure.

# Authority:
50 U.S.C. 4565; E.O. 11858, as amended, 73 FR 4677.

# Source:
85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 800.101
Scope.
(a) Section 721 of title VII of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4565), authorizes the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States to review any covered transaction, as defined in § 800.213 of this part, and to mitigate any risk to the national security of the United States that arises as a result of such transactions. Section 721 also authorizes the President to suspend or prohibit any covered transaction when, in the President's judgment, there is credible evidence that leads the President to believe that the foreign person engaging in a covered transaction might take action that threatens to impair the national security of the United States, and when provisions of law other than section 721 and the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) do not, in the judgment of the President, provide adequate and appropriate authority for the President to protect the national security of the United States in the matter before the President.
(b) This part implements regulations pertaining to covered transactions. Regulations pertaining to “covered real estate transactions” are addressed in part 802 of this chapter.
§ 800.102
Risk-based analysis.
Any determination of the Committee with respect to a covered transaction to suspend, refer to the President, or to negotiate, enter into or impose, or enforce any agreement or condition under section 721 shall be based on a risk-based analysis, conducted by the Committee, of the effects on the national security of the United States of the covered transaction. Any such risk-based analysis shall include credible evidence demonstrating the risk and an assessment of the threat, vulnerabilities, and consequences to national security related to the transaction. For purposes of this part, any such analysis of risk shall include and be informed by consideration of the following elements:
(a) The
threat,
which is a function of the intent and capability of a foreign person to take action to impair the national security of the United States;
(b) The
vulnerabilities,
which are the extent to which the nature of the U.S. business presents susceptibility to impairment of national security; and
(c) The
consequences to national security,
which are the potential effects on national security that could reasonably result from the exploitation of the vulnerabilities by the threat actor.
§ 800.103
Effect on other law.
Nothing in this part shall be construed as altering or affecting any other authority, process, regulation, investigation, enforcement measure, or review provided by or established under any other provision of federal law, including the International Emergency
Economic Powers Act, or any other authority of the President or the Congress under the Constitution of the United States.
§ 800.104
Applicability rule.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section and otherwise in this part, the regulations in this part apply from February 13, 2020.
(b) Subject to paragraph (c) of this section, for any transaction for which the following has occurred before February 13, 2020, the corresponding provisions of the regulations in this part that were in effect on February 12, 2020, will apply:
(1) The completion date;
(2) The parties to the transaction have executed a binding written agreement, or other binding document, establishing the material terms of the transaction;
(3) A party has made a public offer to shareholders to buy shares of a U.S. business; or
(4) A shareholder has solicited proxies in connection with an election of the board of directors of a U.S. business or an owner or holder of a contingent equity interest has requested the conversion of the contingent equity interest.
(c) For any transaction to which part 801 of this title was applicable from November 10, 2018, through February 12, 2020, the regulations in part 801 in effect during that time will continue to apply.

# Note 1 to § 800.104:
See subpart I (Penalties and Damages) of this part for specific applicability rules pertaining to that subpart.
(d) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, for any transaction for which the following has occurred on or after February 13, 2020, and before October 15, 2020, the corresponding provisions of the regulations in this part that were in effect during that time will apply:
(1) The completion date;
(2) The parties to the transaction have executed a binding written agreement, or other binding document, establishing the material terms of the transaction;
(3) A party has made a public offer to shareholders to buy shares of a U.S. business; or
(4) A shareholder has solicited proxies in connection with an election of the board of directors of a U.S. business or an owner or holder of a contingent equity interest has requested the conversion of the contingent equity interest.
(e) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, the amendments to this part published in the
Federal Register
on September 15, 2020 apply from October 15, 2020.
(f) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, the amendments to this part published in the
Federal Register
on November 26, 2024 apply from December 26, 2024.
[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 57128, Sept. 15, 2020; 89 FR 93184, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 800.105
Rules of construction and interpretation.
(a) The examples included in this part are provided for informational purposes and should not be construed to alter the meaning of the text of the regulations in this part.
(b) As used in this part, the term “including” means “including but not limited to.”

# Subpart B—Definitions
§ 800.201
Aggregated data.
The term
aggregated data
means data that have been combined or collected together in summary or other form such that the data cannot be identified with any individual.
§ 800.202
Anonymized data.
The term
anonymized data
means data from which all personal identifiers have been completely removed.
§ 800.203
Business day.
The term
business day
means Monday through Friday, except the legal public holidays specified in 5 U.S.C. 6103, any day declared to be a holiday by federal statute or executive order, or any day with respect to which the U.S. Office of Personnel Management has announced
that Federal agencies in the Washington, DC, area are closed. For purposes of calculating any deadline imposed by this part triggered by the submission of a party to a transaction under § 800.401(g)(2) or § 800.501(i), any submissions received after 5 p.m. Eastern Time are deemed to be submitted on the next business day.

# Note 1 to § 800.203:
See § 800.604 regarding the tolling of deadlines during a lapse in appropriations.
§ 800.204
Certification.
(a) The term
certification
means a written statement signed by the chief executive officer or other duly authorized designee of a party filing a notice, declaration, or information, certifying under the penalties provided in the False Statements Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (18 U.S.C. 1001) that the notice, declaration, or information filed:
(1) Fully complies with the requirements of section 721, the regulations in this part, and any agreement or condition entered into with the Committee or any member of the Committee, and
(2) Is accurate and complete in all material respects, as it relates to:
(i) The transaction; and
(ii) The party providing the certification, including its parents, subsidiaries, and any other related entities described in the notice, declaration, or information.
(b) For purposes of this section, a
duly authorized designee
is:
(1) In the case of a partnership, any general partner thereof;
(2) In the case of a corporation, any officer or director thereof;
(3) In the case of any entity lacking partners, officers, and directors, any individual within the organization exercising executive functions similar to those of a general partner of a partnership or an officer or director of a corporation; and
(4) In the case of an individual, such individual or his or her legal representative.
(c) In each case described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, such designee must possess actual authority to make the certification on behalf of the party filing a notice, declaration, or information.

# Note 1 to § 800.204:
A sample certification may be found at the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
§ 800.205
Committee; Chairperson of the Committee; Staff Chairperson.
The term
Committee
means the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States. The
Chairperson of the Committee
is the Secretary of the Treasury. The
Staff Chairperson
of the Committee is the Department of the Treasury official so designated by the Secretary of the Treasury or by the Secretary's designee.
§ 800.206
Completion date.
The term
completion date
means, with respect to a transaction, the earliest date upon which any ownership interest, including a contingent equity interest, is conveyed, assigned, delivered, or otherwise transferred to a person, or a change in rights that could result in a covered control transaction or covered investment occurs.

# Note 1 to § 800.206:
See § 800.308 regarding the timing rule for a contingent equity interest.
§ 800.207
Contingent equity interest.
The term
contingent equity interest
means a financial instrument that currently does not constitute an equity interest but is convertible into, or provides the right to acquire, an equity interest upon the occurrence of a contingency or defined event.
§ 800.208
Control.
(a) The term
control
means the power, direct or indirect, whether or not exercised, through the ownership of a majority or a dominant minority of the total outstanding voting interest in an entity, board representation, proxy voting, a special share, contractual arrangements, formal or informal arrangements to act in concert, or other means, to determine, direct, or decide important matters affecting an entity; in particular, but without limitation, to determine, direct, take, reach, or cause decisions regarding the following matters, or any other similarly important matters affecting an entity:
(1) The sale, lease, mortgage, pledge, or other transfer of any of the tangible
or intangible principal assets of the entity, whether or not in the ordinary course of business;
(2) The reorganization, merger, or dissolution of the entity;
(3) The closing, relocation, or substantial alteration of the production, operational, or research and development facilities of the entity;
(4) Major expenditures or investments, issuances of equity or debt, or dividend payments by the entity, or approval of the operating budget of the entity;
(5) The selection of new business lines or ventures that the entity will pursue;
(6) The entry into, termination, or non-fulfillment by the entity of significant contracts;
(7) The policies or procedures of the entity governing the treatment of non-public technical, financial, or other proprietary information of the entity;
(8) The appointment or dismissal of officers or senior managers or, in the case of a partnership, the general partner;
(9) The appointment or dismissal of employees with access to critical technology or other sensitive technology or classified U.S. Government information; or
(10) The amendment of the Articles of Incorporation, constituent agreement, or other organizational documents of the entity with respect to the matters described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section.
(b) In examining questions of control in situations where more than one foreign person has an ownership interest in an entity, consideration will be given to factors such as whether the foreign persons are related or have formal or informal arrangements to act in concert, whether they are agencies or instrumentalities of the national or subnational governments of a single foreign state, and whether a given foreign person and another person that has an ownership interest in the entity are both controlled by any of the national or subnational governments of a single foreign state.
(c) The following minority shareholder protections shall not in themselves be deemed to confer control over an entity:
(1) The power to prevent the sale or pledge of all or substantially all of the assets of an entity or a voluntary filing for bankruptcy or liquidation;
(2) The power to prevent an entity from entering into contracts with majority investors or their affiliates;
(3) The power to prevent an entity from guaranteeing the obligations of majority investors or their affiliates;
(4) The right to purchase an additional interest in an entity to prevent the dilution of an investor's pro rata interest in that entity in the event that the entity issues additional instruments conveying interests in the entity;
(5) The power to prevent the change of existing legal rights or preferences of the particular class of stock held by minority investors, as provided in the relevant corporate documents governing such shares; and
(6) The power to prevent the amendment of the Articles of Incorporation, constituent agreement, or other organizational documents of an entity with respect to the matters described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.
(d) The Committee will consider, on a case-by-case basis, whether minority shareholder protections other than those listed in paragraph (c) of this section do not confer control over an entity.
(e) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
Corporation A is a U.S. business. A U.S. investor owns 50 percent of the voting interest in Corporation A, and the remaining voting interest is owned in equal shares by five unrelated foreign investors. The foreign investors jointly financed their investment in Corporation A and vote as a single block on matters affecting Corporation A. The foreign investors have an informal arrangement to act in concert with regard to Corporation A, and, as a result, the foreign investors control Corporation A.
(2)
Example 2.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (e)(1) of this section with regard to the composition of Corporation A's shareholders. The foreign investors in Corporation A have no contractual or other commitments to act in concert, and have no informal arrangements to do so. Assuming no
other relevant facts, the foreign investors do not control Corporation A.
(3)
Example 3.
Corporation A, a foreign person, is a private equity fund that routinely acquires equity interests in companies and manages them for a period of time. Corporation B is a U.S. business. In addition to its acquisition of seven percent of Corporation B's voting shares, Corporation A acquires the right to terminate significant contracts of Corporation B. Corporation A controls Corporation B.
(4)
Example 4.
Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires a nine percent interest in the shares of Corporation B, a U.S. business. As part of the transaction, Corporation A also acquires certain veto rights that determine important matters affecting Corporation B, including the right to veto the dismissal of senior executives of Corporation B. Corporation A controls Corporation B.
(5)
Example 5.
Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires a 13 percent interest in the shares of Corporation B, a U.S. business, and the right to appoint one member of Corporation B's seven-member board of directors. Corporation A receives minority shareholder protections listed in paragraph (c) of this section but receives no other positive or negative rights with respect to Corporation B. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A does not control Corporation B.
(6)
Example 6.
Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires a 20 percent interest in the shares of Corporation B, a U.S. business. Corporation A has negotiated an irrevocable passivity agreement that completely precludes it from controlling Corporation B. Corporation A does, however, receive the right to prevent Corporation B from entering into contracts with majority investors or their affiliates and to prevent Corporation B from guaranteeing the obligations of majority investors or their affiliates. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A does not control Corporation B.
(7)
Example 7.
Limited Partnership A comprises two limited partners, each of which holds 49 percent of the interest in the partnership, and a general partner, which holds two percent of the interest. The general partner has sole authority to determine, direct, and decide all important matters affecting the partnership and a fund operated by the partnership. The general partner alone controls Limited Partnership A and the fund.
(8)
Example 8.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (e)(7) of this section, except that each of the limited partners has the authority to veto major investments proposed by the general partner and to choose the fund's representatives on the boards of the fund's portfolio companies. The general partner and the limited partners each have control over Limited Partnership A and the fund.

# Note 1 to § 800.208:
See § 800.302(b) regarding the Committee's treatment of transactions in which a foreign person holds or acquires 10 percent or less of the outstanding voting interest in a U.S. business solely for the purpose of passive investment. See § 800.303 regarding the Committee's treatment of transactions that do not result in control over a U.S. business by a foreign person, but may be covered investments. See § 800.305 regarding the Committee's treatment of a subsequent transaction involving a foreign person that previously acquired control of the U.S. business.
§ 800.209
Conversion.
The term
conversion
means the exercise of a right inherent in the ownership or holding of a particular financial instrument to exchange any such instrument for an equity interest.
§ 800.210
Covered control transaction.
The term
covered control transaction
means any transaction that is proposed or pending after August 23, 1988, by or with any foreign person that could result in foreign control of any U.S. business, including such a transaction carried out through a joint venture.
§ 800.211
Covered investment.
The term
covered investment
means an investment, direct or indirect, by a foreign person other than an excepted investor, in an unaffiliated TID U.S. business that is proposed or pending on or after February 13, 2020, and that:
(a) Is not a covered control transaction; and
(b) Affords the foreign person:
(1) Access to any material nonpublic technical information in the possession of the TID U.S. business;
(2) Membership or observer rights on, or the right to nominate an individual to a position on, the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the TID U.S. business; or
(3) Any involvement, other than through voting of shares, in substantive decisionmaking of the TID U.S. business regarding:
(i) The use, development, acquisition, safekeeping, or release of sensitive personal data of U.S. citizens maintained or collected by the TID U.S. business;
(ii) The use, development, acquisition, or release of critical technologies; or
(iii) The management, operation, manufacture, or supply of covered investment critical infrastructure.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, no investment involving an air carrier, as defined in 49 U.S.C. 40102(a)(2), that holds a certificate issued under 49 U.S.C. 41102 shall be a covered investment.
(d) Example: Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, makes a non-controlling investment in Corporation B, a U.S. business, that affords Corporation A the right to nominate one of the directors on Corporation B's board of directors. Corporation B, through its wholly-owned subsidiary Corporation X, designs and manufactures a critical technology. Corporation A's investment in Corporation B is a covered investment.
§ 800.212
Covered investment critical infrastructure.
The term
covered investment critical infrastructure
means, in the context of a particular covered investment, the systems and assets, whether physical or virtual, set forth in column 1 of appendix A to this part.
§ 800.213
Covered transaction.
The term
covered transaction
means any of the following:
(a) A covered control transaction;
(b) A covered investment;
(c) A change in the rights that a foreign person has with respect to a U.S. business in which the foreign person has an investment, if that change could result in a covered control transaction or a covered investment; or
(d) Any other transaction, transfer, agreement, or arrangement, the structure of which is designed or intended to evade or circumvent the application of section 721.
(e) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires a 10 percent non-controlling equity interest in Corporation X, a U.S. business. Corporation X subsequently provides Corporation A the right to appoint the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Technical Officer of Corporation X. Corporation A does not acquire any additional equity interest in Corporation X. Assuming no other relevant facts, the change in rights is a covered transaction.
(2)
Example 2.
Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, acquires a 10 percent non-controlling equity interest in Corporation X, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business, but Corporation A is not afforded any of the access, rights, or involvement specified in § 800.211(b) at the time of its investment. Corporation X later expands its board of directors and provides Corporation A with the right to appoint a director. Assuming no other relevant facts, the change in rights is a covered transaction.
(3)
Example 3.
Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state and is wholly owned and controlled by a foreign national. With a view towards circumventing section 721, Corporation A transfers money to a U.S. citizen, who, pursuant to informal arrangements with Corporation A and on its behalf, purchases all the shares in Corporation X, a U.S. business. The transaction is a covered transaction.
(4)
Example 4.
Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state, is wholly owned and controlled by a foreign national, and is not an excepted investor. With a view towards circumventing section 721, Corporation A transfers money to a U.S. citizen, who, pursuant to informal arrangements with Corporation A and on its behalf, makes a non-controlling minority equity investment in Corporation X, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business that
maintains and collects sensitive personal data of U.S. citizens. In connection with the investment, the U.S. citizen is afforded the right to be involved in substantive decisionmaking regarding the release of sensitive personal data of U.S. citizens maintained by Corporation X. The transaction is a covered transaction.

# Note 1 to § 800.213:
Any transaction described in (a) through (d) of this section that arises pursuant to a bankruptcy proceeding or other form of default on debt is a covered transaction. See also § 800.306 for the treatment of certain lending transactions.
[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 57128, Sept. 15, 2020]
§ 800.214
Critical infrastructure.
The term
critical infrastructure
means, in the context of a particular covered control transaction, systems and assets, whether physical or virtual, so vital to the United States that the incapacity or destruction of such systems or assets would have a debilitating impact on national security.
§ 800.215
Critical technologies.
The term
critical technologies
means the following:
(a) Defense articles or defense services included on the United States Munitions List (USML) set forth in the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) (22 CFR parts 120-130);
(b) Items included on the Commerce Control List (CCL) set forth in Supplement No. 1 to part 774 of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) (15 CFR parts 730-774), and controlled—
(1) Pursuant to multilateral regimes, including for reasons relating to national security, chemical and biological weapons proliferation, nuclear nonproliferation, or missile technology; or
(2) For reasons relating to regional stability or surreptitious listening;
(c) Specially designed and prepared nuclear equipment, parts and components, materials, software, and technology covered by 10 CFR part 810 (relating to assistance to foreign atomic energy activities);
(d) Nuclear facilities, equipment, and material covered by 10 CFR part 110 (relating to export and import of nuclear equipment and material);
(e) Select agents and toxins covered by 7 CFR part 331, 9 CFR part 121, or 42 CFR part 73; and
(f) Emerging and foundational technologies controlled under section 1758 of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (50 U.S.C. 4817).
§ 800.216
Encrypted data.
The term
encrypted data
means data to which National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)-allowed cryptographic techniques, as identified in the most current NIST special publication 800-175B, or superseding publication, have been applied.
§ 800.217
Entity.
The term
entity
means any branch, partnership, group or sub-group, association, estate, trust, corporation or division of a corporation, or organization (whether or not organized under the laws of any State or foreign state); assets (whether or not organized as a separate legal entity) operated by any one of the foregoing as a business undertaking in a particular location or for particular products or services; and any government (including a foreign national or subnational government, the U.S. Government, a subnational government within the United States, and any of their respective departments, agencies, or instrumentalities). (See examples in § 800.301(g)(5) through (14) and § 800.302(g)(5) through (10).)
§ 800.218
Excepted foreign state.
The term
excepted foreign state
means, until February 13, 2023, a foreign state that meets the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section, and, beginning on February 13, 2023, a foreign state that meets both the criteria in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section:
(a) Is identified by the Committee as an eligible foreign state, and
(b) Is a foreign state for which the Committee has made a determination under § 800.1001(a).

# Note 1 to § 800.218:
The name of each foreign state identified by the Committee as an eligible foreign state will be available at the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website. See § 800.1001(c) regarding the publication of a notice in the
Federal Register
of a determination under § 800.1001(a). The list of excepted foreign
states will also be available at the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 732, Feb. 4, 2022]
§ 800.219
Excepted investor.
(a) The term
excepted investor
means a foreign person who is, as of the completion date of the transaction and subject to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section:
(1) A foreign national who is a national of one or more excepted foreign states and is not also a national of any foreign state that is not an excepted foreign state;
(2) A foreign government of an excepted foreign state; or
(3) An entity that meets each of the following conditions with respect to itself and each of its parents (if any):
(i) Such entity is organized under the laws of an excepted foreign state or in the United States;
(ii) Such entity has its principal place of business in an excepted foreign state or in the United States;
(iii) Seventy-five percent or more of the members and 75 percent or more of the observers of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of such entity are:
(A) U.S. nationals; or
(B) Nationals of one or more excepted foreign states who are not also nationals of any foreign state that is not an excepted foreign state;
(iv) Any foreign person that individually, and each foreign person that is part of a group of foreign persons that in the aggregate, holds 10 percent or more of the outstanding voting interest of such entity; holds the right to 10 percent or more of the profits of such entity; holds the right in the event of dissolution to 10 percent or more of the assets of such entity; or otherwise could exercise control over such entity, is:
(A) A foreign national who is a national of one or more excepted foreign states and is not also a national of any foreign state that is not an excepted foreign state;
(B) A foreign government of an excepted foreign state; or
(C) An entity that is organized under the laws of an excepted foreign state or in the United States and has its principal place of business in an excepted foreign state or in the United States; and
(v) The minimum excepted ownership of such entity is held, individually or in the aggregate, by one or more persons each of whom is:
(A) Not a foreign person;
(B) A foreign national who is a national of one or more excepted foreign states and is not also a national of any foreign state that is not an excepted foreign state;
(C) A foreign government of an excepted foreign state; or
(D) An entity that is organized under the laws of an excepted foreign state or in the United States and has its principal place of business in an excepted foreign state or in the United States.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a)(3)(iv) of this section, foreign persons who are related, have formal or informal arrangements to act in concert, or are agencies or instrumentalities of, or controlled by, the national or subnational governments of a single foreign state are considered part of a group of foreign persons and their individual ownerships are aggregated.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a foreign person is not an excepted investor with respect to a transaction if:
(1) In the five years prior to the completion date of the transaction the foreign person, any of its parents, or any entity of which it is a parent:
(i) Has received written notice from the Committee that it has submitted a material misstatement or omission in a notice or declaration or made a false certification under this part or part 801 or 802 of this title;
(ii) Has received written notice from the Committee that it has violated a material provision of a mitigation agreement entered into with, material condition imposed by, or an order issued by, the Committee or a lead agency under section 721(l);
(iii) Has been subject to action by the President under section 721(d);
(iv) Has:
(A) Received a written Finding of Violation or Penalty Notice imposing a
civil monetary penalty from the Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC); or
(B) Entered into a settlement agreement with OFAC with respect to apparent violations of U.S. sanctions laws administered by OFAC, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, the Trading With the Enemy Act, the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, each as amended, or of any executive order, regulation, order, directive, or license issued pursuant thereto;
(v) Has received a written notice of debarment from the Department of State, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, as described in 22 CFR parts 127 and 128;
(vi) Has been a respondent or party in a final order, including a settlement order, issued by the Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) regarding violations of U.S. export control laws administered by BIS, including the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (50 U.S.C. 4801
et seq.
), the EAR, or of any executive order, regulation, order, directive, or license issued pursuant thereto;
(vii) Has received a final decision from the Department of Energy, National Nuclear Security Administration imposing a civil penalty with respect to a violation of section 57b. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as implemented under 10 CFR part 810; or
(viii) Has been convicted of, or has entered into a deferred prosecution agreement or non-prosecution agreement with the Department of Justice with respect to, any felony in any jurisdiction within the United States; or
(2) The foreign person, any of its parents, or any entity of which it is a parent is, on the date on which the parties to the transaction first execute a binding written agreement, or other binding document, establishing the material terms of the transaction, listed on either the BIS Unverified List or Entity List in 15 CFR part 744.
(d) Irrespective of whether the foreign person satisfies the criteria in paragraph (a)(1) or (2), (a)(3)(i) through (iii), or (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section as of the completion date, if at any time during the three-year period following the completion date, the foreign person no longer meets all the criteria set forth in paragraph (a)(1) or (2), (a)(3)(i) through (iii), or (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section, the foreign person is not an excepted investor with respect to the transaction from the completion date onward. This paragraph does not apply when an excepted investor no longer meets any of the criteria solely due to a rescission of a determination under § 800.1001(b) or if the relevant foreign state otherwise ceases to be an excepted foreign state.
(e) A foreign person may waive its status as an excepted investor with respect to a transaction at any time by submitting a declaration under § 800.403 or filing a notice under § 800.501 regarding the transaction in which it explicitly waives such status. In such case, the foreign person will be deemed not to be an excepted investor with respect to the transaction and the relevant provisions of subpart D or E will apply.

# Note 1 to § 800.219:
See § 800.501(c)(2) regarding an agency notice where a foreign person is not an excepted investor solely due to § 800.219(d).
[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020; 85 FR 8747, Feb. 18, 2020]
§ 800.220
Foreign entity.
(a) The term
foreign entity
means any branch, partnership, group or sub-group, association, estate, trust, corporation or division of a corporation, or organization organized under the laws of a foreign state if either its principal place of business is outside the United States or its equity securities are primarily traded on one or more foreign exchanges.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, any branch, partnership, group or sub-group, association, estate, trust, corporation or division of a corporation, or organization that can demonstrate that a majority of the equity interest in such entity is ultimately owned by U.S. nationals is not a foreign entity.
§ 800.221
Foreign government.
The term
foreign government
means any government or body exercising governmental functions, other than the U.S. Government or a subnational government of the United States. The term includes, but is not limited to,
national and subnational governments, including their respective departments, agencies, and instrumentalities.
§ 800.222
Foreign government-controlled transaction.
The term
foreign government-controlled transaction
means any covered control transaction that could result in control of a U.S. business by a foreign government or a person controlled by or acting on behalf of a foreign government.
§ 800.223
Foreign national.
The term
foreign national
means any individual other than a U.S. national.
§ 800.224
Foreign person.
(a) The term
foreign person
means:
(1) Any foreign national, foreign government, or foreign entity; or
(2) Any entity over which control is exercised or exercisable by a foreign national, foreign government, or foreign entity.
(b) Any entity over which control is exercised or exercisable by a foreign person is a foreign person.
(c) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state and is engaged in business only outside the United States. All of its shares are held by Corporation X, which solely controls Corporation A. Corporation X is organized in the United States and is wholly owned and controlled by U.S. nationals. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A, although organized and operating only outside the United States, is not a foreign entity due to § 800.220(b) and is not a foreign person.
(2)
Example 2.
Same facts as the first sentence of the example in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The government of the foreign state under whose laws Corporation A is organized exercises control over Corporation A because a law establishing Corporation A gives the foreign state the right to appoint Corporation A's board members. Corporation A is a foreign person.
(3)
Example 3.
Corporation A is organized in the United States, is engaged in interstate commerce in the United States, and is controlled by Corporation X. Corporation X is organized under the laws of a foreign state, its principal place of business is located outside the United States, and 50 percent of its shares are held by foreign nationals and 50 percent of its shares are held by U.S. nationals. Both Corporation A and Corporation X are foreign persons. Corporation A is also a U.S. business.
(4)
Example 4.
Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state and is owned and controlled by a foreign national. A branch of Corporation A engages in interstate commerce in the United States. Corporation A (including its branch) is a foreign person. The branch is also a U.S. business.
(5)
Example 5.
Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state and its principal place of business is located outside the United States. Forty-five percent of the equity interest in Corporation A is owned in equal shares by numerous unrelated foreign investors, none of whom has control. The foreign investors have no formal or informal arrangement with any other holder of equity interest in Corporation A to act in concert regarding Corporation A. Corporation A can demonstrate that the remainder of the equity interest in Corporation A is ultimately held by U.S. nationals. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A is not a foreign entity or foreign person.
(6)
Example 6.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, except that one of the foreign investors, a foreign national, controls Corporation A. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A is not a foreign entity due to § 800.220(b), but it is a foreign person under paragraph (a)(2) of this section because it is controlled by a foreign national.
§ 800.225
Hold.
The terms
hold(s)
and
holding
mean legal or beneficial ownership, whether direct or indirect, whether through fiduciaries, agents, or other means.
§ 800.226
Identifiable data.
The term
identifiable data
means data that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual's identity, including through the use of any personal identifier. Aggregated data or anonymized
data is identifiable data if any party to the transaction has, or as a result of the transaction will have, the ability to disaggregate or de-anonymize the data, or if the data is otherwise capable of being used to distinguish or trace an individual's identity. Identifiable data does not include encrypted data, unless the U.S. business that maintains or collects the encrypted data has the means to de-encrypt the data so as to distinguish or trace an individual's identity.
§ 800.227
Investment.
The term
investment
means the acquisition of equity interest, including contingent equity interest.
§ 800.228
Investment fund.
The term
investment fund
means any entity that is an “investment company,” as defined in section 3(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
), or would be an “investment company” but for one or more of the exemptions provided in section 3(b) or 3(c) thereunder.
§ 800.229
Involvement.
The term
involvement
means the right or ability to participate, whether or not exercised, including by doing any of the following:
(a) Providing input into a final decision;
(b) Consulting with or providing advice to a decisionmaker;
(c) Exercising special approval or veto rights;
(d) Participating on a committee with decisionmaking authority; or
(e) Advising on the appointment officers or selecting employees who are engaged in substantive decisionmaking.
§ 800.230
Lead agency.
The term
lead agency
means the Department of the Treasury and any other agency designated by the Chairperson of the Committee to have primary responsibility, on behalf of the Committee, for the specific activity for which the Chairperson designates it as a lead agency, including all or a portion of an assessment, a review, an investigation, or the negotiation or monitoring of a mitigation agreement or condition.
§ 800.231
Manufacture.
Solely for the purposes of column 2 of appendix A to this part, the term
manufacture
means to produce or reproduce, whether physically or virtually.
§ 800.232
Material nonpublic technical information.
(a) The term
material nonpublic technical information
means information that:
(1) Provides knowledge, know-how, or understanding, in each case not available in the public domain, of the design, location, or operation of covered investment critical infrastructure, including vulnerability information such as that related to physical security or cybersecurity; or
(2) Is not available in the public domain and is necessary to design, fabricate, develop, test, produce, or manufacture a critical technology, including processes, techniques, or methods.
(b) The term
material nonpublic technical information
does not include financial information regarding the performance of an entity.
(c) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, proposes to acquire a four percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B. Corporation B is a U.S. business that services an industrial control system utilized by an interstate oil pipeline that has the capacity to transport 600,000 barrels per day of crude oil (ICS B). ICS B is covered investment critical infrastructure as set forth in column 1 of appendix A to this part. The source code for ICS B is not available in the public domain. Pursuant to the terms of the investment, Corporation A will have access to the source code for ICS B. The proposed investment therefore affords Corporation A access to material nonpublic technical information in the possession of Corporation B regarding the design and operation of covered investment critical infrastructure.
(2)
Example 2.
Fund A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, proposes to acquire a five percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B. Corporation B is an unaffiliated
TID U.S. business that develops a critical technology (Technology Z). Pursuant to the terms of the investment, Corporation B will notify Fund A when it achieves the developmental milestone of completing a demonstration prototype of Technology Z. The notification will only set out the milestone achieved and will not include technical details. Assuming no other facts, the proposed investment does not afford Fund A access to material nonpublic technical information in the possession of Corporation B necessary to design, fabricate, develop, test, produce, or manufacture a critical technology.
§ 800.233
Minimum excepted ownership.
The term
minimum excepted ownership
means:
(a) With respect to an entity whose equity securities are primarily traded on an exchange in an excepted foreign state or the United States, a majority of its voting interest, the right to a majority of its profits, and the right in the event of dissolution to a majority of its assets; and
(b) With respect to an entity whose equity securities are not primarily traded on an exchange in an excepted foreign state or the United States, 80 percent or more of its voting interest, the right to 80 percent or more of its profits, and the right in the event of dissolution to 80 percent or more of its assets.
§ 800.234
Own.
Solely for the purposes of column 2 of appendix A to this part, the term
own
means to directly possess the applicable covered investment critical infrastructure.
§ 800.235
Parent.
(a) The term
parent
means, with respect to an entity:
(1) A person who or which directly or indirectly:
(i) Holds or will hold at least 50 percent of the outstanding voting interest in the entity; or
(ii) Holds or will hold the right to at least 50 percent of the profits of the entity, or has or will have the right in the event of dissolution to at least 50 percent of the assets of the entity; or
(2) The general partner, managing member, or equivalent of the entity.
(b) Any entity that meets the conditions of paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section with respect to another entity (
i.e.,
the intermediate parent) is also a parent of any other entity of which the intermediate parent is a parent.
(c) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
Corporation P holds 50 percent of the voting interest in Corporations R and S; Corporation R holds 40 percent of the voting interest in Corporation X; and Corporation S holds 50 percent of the voting interest in Corporation Y, which in turn holds 50 percent of the voting interest in Corporation Z. Corporation P is a parent of Corporations R, S, Y, and Z, but not of Corporation X. Corporation S is a parent of Corporation Y and Z, and Corporation Y is a parent of Corporation Z.
(2)
Example 2.
Corporation A holds warrants which when exercised will entitle it to vote 50 percent of the outstanding shares of Corporation B. Corporation A is a parent of Corporation B.
(3)
Example 3.
Investor A holds 60 percent of the outstanding voting interest in Corporation B. Investor C holds the right to 80 percent of the profits of Corporation B. Each of Investor A and Investor C is a parent of Corporation B.
§ 800.236
Party to a transaction.
(a) The term
party to a transaction
means:
(1) In the case of an acquisition of an ownership interest in an entity, the person acquiring the ownership interest, the person from whom such ownership interest is acquired, and the entity whose ownership interest is being acquired, without regard to any person providing brokerage or underwriting services for the transaction;
(2) In the case of a merger, the surviving entity, and the entity or entities that are merged with or into that entity in the transaction;
(3) In the case of a consolidation, the entities being consolidated, and the new consolidated entity;
(4) In the case of a proxy solicitation, the person soliciting proxies, and the person who issued the voting interest;
(5) In the case of the acquisition or conversion of contingent equity interests, the issuer and the person holding the contingent equity interests;
(6) In the case of a change in rights that a person has with respect to an entity in which that person has an investment, the person whose rights change as a result of the transaction and the entity to which those rights apply;
(7) In the case of any other transaction, transfer, agreement, or arrangement, the structure of which is designed or intended to evade or circumvent the application of section 721, any person that participates in such transaction, transfer, agreement, or arrangement;
(8) In the case of any other type of transaction, any person who is in a role comparable to that of a person described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section; and
(9) In all cases, each party that submitted a declaration or notice to the Committee regarding a transaction.
(b) For purposes of section 721(l), the term
party to a transaction
includes any affiliate of any party described in paragraph (a) of this section that the Committee, or a lead agency acting on behalf of the Committee, determines is relevant to mitigating a risk to the national security of the United States.
§ 800.237
Person.
The term
person
means any individual or entity.
§ 800.238
Personal identifier.
The term
personal identifier
means name, physical address, email address, social security number, phone number, or other information that identifies a specific individual.
§ 800.239
Principal place of business.
(a) The term
principal place of business
means, subject to paragraph (b) of this section, the primary location where an entity's management directs, controls, or coordinates the entity's activities, or, in the case of an investment fund, where the fund's activities are primarily directed, controlled, or coordinated by or on behalf of the general partner, managing member, or equivalent.
(b) If the location determined under paragraph (a) of this section is in the United States and the entity has represented to the U.S. Government or a subnational government of the United States or any foreign government, in the most recent submission or filing to such government (other than a submission or filing to the Committee) in which the entity has identified its principal place of business, principal office and place of business, address of principal executive offices, address of headquarters, or equivalent, that any of the foregoing is outside the United States, then the location identified in such submission or filing is deemed for purposes of this definition to be the entity's principal place of business unless the entity can demonstrate that such location has changed to the United States since such submission or filing.
[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 45313, July 28, 2020]
§ 800.240
Section 721.
The term
section 721
means section 721 of title VII of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4565).
§ 800.241
Sensitive personal data.
(a) The term
sensitive personal data
means, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) Identifiable data that is:
(i) Maintained or collected by a U.S. business that:
(A) Targets or tailors products or services to any U.S. executive branch agency or military department with intelligence, national security, or homeland security responsibilities, or to personnel and contractors thereof;
(B) Has maintained or collected any identifiable data within one or more categories described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section on greater than one million individuals at any point over the twelve (12) months preceding the earliest of the completion date, the date of any of the events described in § 800.104(b)(2) through (4) (as applicable), or the date of filing of a written notice or submission of a declaration, unless the U.S. business can demonstrate that at the time of the completion date of the transaction it had or will have neither the capability to
maintain nor the capability to collect any identifiable data within one or more categories described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section on greater than one million individuals; or
(C) Has a demonstrated business objective to maintain or collect any identifiable data within one or more categories described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section on greater than one million individuals and such data is an integrated part of the U.S. business's primary products or services; and
(ii) Within any of the following categories:
(A) Financial data that could be used to analyze or determine an individual's financial distress or hardship;
(B) The set of data in a consumer report, as defined under 15 U.S.C. 1681a, unless such data is obtained from a consumer reporting agency for one or more purposes identified in 15 U.S.C. 1681b(a) and such data is not substantially similar to the full contents of a consumer file as defined under 15 U.S.C. 1681a;
(C) The set of data in an application for health insurance, long-term care insurance, professional liability insurance, mortgage insurance, or life insurance;
(D) Data relating to the physical, mental, or psychological health condition of an individual;
(E) Non-public electronic communications, including email, messaging, or chat communications, between or among users of a U.S. business's products or services if a primary purpose of such product or service is to facilitate third-party user communications;
(F) Geolocation data collected using positioning systems, cell phone towers, or WiFi access points such as via a mobile application, vehicle GPS, other onboard mapping tool, or wearable electronic device;
(G) Biometric enrollment data including facial, voice, retina/iris, and palm/fingerprint templates;
(H) Data stored and processed for generating a state or federal government identification card;
(I) Data concerning U.S. Government personnel security clearance status; or
(J) The set of data in an application for a U.S. Government personnel security clearance or an application for employment in a position of public trust; and
(2) The results of an individual's genetic tests, including any related genetic sequencing data, whenever such results constitute identifiable data. Such results shall not include data derived from databases maintained by the U.S. Government and routinely provided to private parties for purposes of research. For purposes of this paragraph, “genetic test” shall have the meaning provided in 42 U.S.C. 300gg-91(d)(17).
(b) The term
sensitive personal data
shall not include, regardless of the applicability of the criteria described in paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) Data maintained or collected by a U.S. business concerning the employees of that U.S. business, unless the data pertains to employees of U.S. Government contractors who hold U.S. Government personnel security clearances; or
(2) Data that is a matter of public record, such as court records or other government records that are generally available to the public.
(c) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
Corporation A, a U.S. business, periodically collects geolocation data as described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(F) of this section on its customers for marketing and customer experience purposes. Corporation A maintains the geolocation data for a short period, then purges the data from its systems. When Corporation A and a foreign person notify the Committee of a transaction, Corporation A maintains the geolocation data of only 200,000 individuals. However, in the 12 months prior to filing the notification to the Committee, Corporation A has collected the geolocation data of greater than one million individuals. Because Corporation A collected the geolocation data of greater than one million individuals in the 12 months prior to the filing date of the notice, it meets the criteria in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section.
(2)
Example 2.
Corporation A, a U.S. business, collects data relating to physical health conditions as described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(D) from new customers, which numbered fewer than one million over the 12 months prior to
executing a definitive binding agreement to be acquired by a foreign person. Under its data retention policy, Corporation A maintains the health data for a long period of time. Accordingly, Corporation A maintains the health data from new customers (those from whom the data was collected in the previous 12 months) and older customers (those from whom the data was collected in prior years). In total, Corporation A maintains the health data of three million individuals. Because Corporation A maintains health data of greater than one million individuals, it meets the criteria in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section.
(3)
Example 3.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, except that, under its data retention policy, the number of individuals for whom Corporation A maintains the health data fluctuates. Over the 12 months prior to executing a definitive binding agreement to be acquired by a foreign person, Corporation A usually maintained the health data of 900,000 individuals. However, at one point during the prior 12 months, it maintained the health data of 1,100,000 individuals. Corporation A currently maintains the health data of fewer than one million individuals. Because Corporation A maintained the health data of greater than one million individuals during the 12 months prior to executing a definitive binding agreement to be acquired by a foreign person, it meets the criteria in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section.
(4)
Example 4.
Corporation A, a U.S. business, maintains data under multiple categories in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section on over one million individuals. Specifically, Corporation A maintains financial data described by paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section on 400,000 individuals, and health data described by paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(D) of this section on another 700,000 individuals. Because Corporation A maintains the data described in the categories in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) on greater than one million individuals, despite not maintaining or collecting data of greater than one million individuals in any one category, it meets the criteria in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section.
(5)
Example 5.
Corporation A, a U.S. business, is a start-up mobile mapping venture that has maintained or collected geolocation data described by paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(F) of this section on substantially fewer than one million individual subscribers over the 12 months prior to completing a transaction with a foreign person. The geolocation data is an integrated part of Corporation A's primary product, mobile mapping services. Corporation A, in connection with attempting to secure an additional round of financing, has prepared and distributed to potential investors pitch materials that include Corporation A's projection that, within the next two years, it will have greater than one million active individual subscribers. Corporation A also has made plans to substantially increase its workforce and enhance its IT infrastructure in anticipation of obtaining the additional subscribers. Corporation A meets the criteria of paragraph (a)(1)(i)(C) of this section of having a demonstrated business objective to maintain or collect data described in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) through (J) of this section on greater than one million individuals.
§ 800.242
Service.
Solely for the purposes of column 2 of appendix A to this part, the term
service
means to repair, maintain, refurbish, replace, overhaul, or update.
§ 800.243
Solely for the purpose of passive investment.
(a) Ownership interests are held or acquired
solely for the purpose of passive investment
if the person holding or acquiring such interests does not plan or intend to exercise control and—
(1) Is not afforded any rights that if exercised would constitute control;
(2) Does not acquire any access, rights, or involvement specified § 800.211(b);
(3) Does not possess or develop any purpose other than passive investment; and
(4) Does not take any action inconsistent with holding or acquiring such interests solely for the purpose of passive investment. (See § 800.302(b).)
(b) Example: Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires a voting interest in
Corporation B, a U.S. business. In addition to the voting interest, Corporation A negotiates the right to appoint a member of Corporation B's board of directors. The acquisition by Corporation A of a voting interest in Corporation B is not solely for the purpose of passive investment.
§ 800.244
Substantial interest.
(a) The term
substantial interest
means, in the context of an acquisition of an interest in a U.S. business by a foreign person, a voting interest, direct or indirect, of 25 percent or more, and, in the context of a foreign person in which the national or subnational governments of a single foreign state have an interest, subject to paragraph (b) of this section, a voting interest, direct or indirect, of 49 percent or more.
(b) In the case of an entity whose activities are primarily directed, controlled, or coordinated by or on behalf of a general partner, managing member, or equivalent, the national or subnational governments of a single foreign state will be considered to have
a substantial interest
in such entity only if they hold 49 percent or more of the interest in the general partner, managing member, or equivalent of the entity.
(c) For purposes of determining the percentage of interest held indirectly by one entity in another entity under this section, any interest of a parent will be deemed to be a 100 percent interest in any entity of which it is a parent.
(d) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person, plans to acquire a 30 percent voting interest in Corporation X, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. Corporation B holds 51 percent of the voting interest in, and is a parent of, Corporation A. A foreign government holds 75 percent of the voting interest in Corporation B, and private, non-government controlled individuals hold the remaining 25 percent. Under paragraph (c) of this section, Corporation B is deemed to have 100 percent of the voting interest in Corporation A because it is Corporation A's parent, and therefore the foreign government's indirect voting interest in Corporation A is imputed to be 75 percent. Corporation A is acquiring a substantial interest in Corporation X, and a foreign government has a substantial interest in Corporation A.
(2)
Example 2.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, except that Corporation B holds only 49 percent of the voting interest in Corporation A and is not Corporation A's parent. Because Corporation B is not a parent of Corporation A, paragraph (c) of this section is not applicable. The foreign government's indirect voting interest in Corporation A for purposes of this section is only 36.75 percent. Corporation A is acquiring a substantial interest in Corporation X; however, the foreign government does not have a substantial interest in Corporation A.
[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 57128, Sept. 15, 2020]
§ 800.245
Substantive decisionmaking.
(a) The term
substantive decisionmaking
means the process through which decisions regarding significant matters affecting an entity are undertaken, including, as applicable:
(1) Pricing, sales, and specific contracts, including the license, sale, or transfer of sensitive personal data to any third party, including pursuant to a customer, vendor, or joint venture agreement;
(2) Supply arrangements;
(3) Corporate strategy and business development;
(4) Research and development, including location and budget allocation;
(5) Manufacturing locations;
(6) Access to critical technologies, covered investment critical infrastructure, material nonpublic technical information, or sensitive personal data, including pursuant to a customer, vendor, or joint venture agreement;
(7) Physical and cyber security protocols, including the storage and protection of critical technologies, covered investment critical infrastructure, or sensitive personal data;
(8) Practices, policies, and procedures governing the collection, use, or storage of sensitive personal data, including:
(i) The establishment or maintenance of, or changes to, the architecture of information technology systems and
networks used in collecting or maintaining sensitive personal data; or
(ii) Privacy policies and agreements for individuals from whom sensitive personal data is collected setting forth parameters regarding whether and how sensitive personal data may be collected, maintained, accessed, or disseminated; or
(9) Strategic partnerships.
(b) The term
substantive decisionmaking
does not include strictly administrative decisions.
(c) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, proposes to acquire a four percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B. Corporation B is an unaffiliated TID U.S. business that operates a container terminal at a strategic seaport within the National Port Readiness Network (Terminal B). Pursuant to the terms of the investment, Corporation A will have approval rights over which customers may utilize Terminal B. The proposed investment therefore affords Corporation A involvement in substantive decisionmaking of Corporation B regarding the management, operation, manufacture, or supply of covered investment critical infrastructure.
(2)
Example 2.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, except that instead of customer approval rights, Corporation A has the right to decide whether to claim certain tax credits with respect to Terminal B on its own income tax filing, which prevents Corporation B from claiming such credits. Assuming no other relevant facts, the proposed investment does not afford Corporation A involvement in substantive decisionmaking of Corporation B regarding the management, operation, manufacture, or supply of covered investment critical infrastructure.
§ 800.246
Supply.
Solely for the purposes of column 2 of appendix A to this part, the term
supply
means to provide third-party physical or cyber security.
§ 800.247
Targets or tailors.
(a) The term
targets or tailors
means customizing products or services for use by a person or group of persons or actively marketing to or soliciting a person or group of persons.
(b) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
Corporation A, a U.S. business, operates facilities throughout the United States that offer healthcare-related products and services. Some of Corporation A's facilities are located within metropolitan areas that also include U.S. military facilities. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A does not target or tailor its products or services for purposes of § 800.241(a)(1)(i)(A).
(2)
Example 2.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, except that Corporation A operates a facility on the premises of a U.S. military facility. Corporation A targets or tailors its products or services for purposes of § 800.241(a)(1)(i)(A).
(3)
Example 3.
Corporation A, a U.S. business, offers a discount to all customers that are employed in the public sector broadly, including active duty U.S. military personnel. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A does not target or tailor its products or services for purposes of § 800.241(a)(1)(i)(A).
(4)
Example 4.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, except that Corporation A offers a discount solely to uniformed U.S. military personnel and distributes marketing materials that promote the particular usefulness of Corporation A's products to military personnel. Corporation A targets or tailors its products or services for purposes of § 800.241(a)(1)(i)(A).
§ 800.248
TID U.S. business.
The term
TID U.S. business
means any U.S. business that:
(a) Produces, designs, tests, manufactures, fabricates, or develops one or more critical technologies;
(b) Performs the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to covered investment critical infrastructure; or
(c) Maintains or collects, directly or indirectly, sensitive personal data of U.S. citizens.
(d) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
Corporation A, a U.S. business, operates a munitions plant in
the United States that produces a variety of military grade explosives. Some of the explosives manufactured by Corporation A are listed on the USML. Corporation A manufactures critical technologies and is therefore a TID U.S. business.
(2)
Example 2.
Corporation A, a U.S. business, produces an item (Item A) by purchasing various components from third-party suppliers and integrating them into Item A. One of these components (Component X) is a critical technology, but Item A is not a critical technology. Before integrating Component X into Item A, Corporation A merely verifies the fit and form of Component X solely as part of Item A. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A does not test critical technologies and is therefore not a TID U.S. business.
(3)
Example 3.
Corporation A is a U.S. business that owns intellectual property rights and equipment for manufacturing a critical technology and maintains the know-how to manufacture that critical technology. It has been six months since Corporation A manufactured the critical technology. Because Corporation A retains the ability to manufacture the critical technology, Corporation A is a TID U.S. business.
(4)
Example 4.
Facility A is a crude oil storage facility with the capacity to hold 50 million barrels of crude oil. Corporation A is a U.S. business that operates Facility A. Corporation B is a U.S. business that provides third-party physical security to Facility A by guarding the gate to Facility A and patrolling the fence surrounding Facility A. Corporation C produces the fencing used by Facility A. Corporation D produces the commercially available off-the-shelf cyber security software utilized in Facility A. Corporation E provides third-party cyber security to Facility A by running Facility A's cyber security defenses. Facility A is covered investment critical infrastructure as set forth in column 1 of appendix A to this part. Corporation A, Corporation B, and Corporation E each perform one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to Facility A, and each is therefore a TID U.S. business. Assuming no other relevant facts, neither Corporation C nor Corporation D performs one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to Facility A, and neither is therefore a TID U.S. business.
(5)
Example 5.
Pipeline A is an interstate natural gas pipeline with an outside diameter of 36 inches. Corporation A is a U.S. business that owns Pipeline A. Corporation B is a U.S. business that manufactures the pipe segments with an outside diameter of 36 inches that are used in Pipeline A. Pipeline A is covered investment critical infrastructure as set forth in column 1 of appendix A to this part. Corporation A performs one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to Pipeline A and is therefore a TID U.S. business. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation B does not perform one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to Pipeline A and is therefore not a TID U.S. business.
(6)
Example 6.
IXP A is an internet exchange point that supports public peering. Corporation A is a U.S. business that operates IXP A. Corporation B is a U.S. business that maintains the physical premises of IXP A. IXP A is covered investment critical infrastructure as set forth in column 1 of appendix A to this part. Corporation A performs one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to IXP A and is therefore a TID U.S. business. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation B does not perform one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to IXP A and is therefore not a TID U.S. business.
(7)
Example 7.
SCADA System A is a supervisory control and data acquisition system utilized by a public water system, as defined in section 1401(4) of the Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 300f(4)(A)), that regularly serves 15,000 individuals. Corporation A is a U.S. business that produces SCADA System A by building the hardware and integrating all the software. Corporation B is a U.S. business that produces commercially available off-the-shelf software that is sold
to Corporation A and used as a component in SCADA System A. SCADA System A is covered investment critical infrastructure as set forth in column 1 of appendix A to this part. Corporation A, as the manufacturer of SCADA System A, performs one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to SCADA System A and is therefore a TID U.S. business. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation B does not perform one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to SCADA System A and is therefore not a TID U.S. business.
(8)
Example 8.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (d)(7) of this section. Corporation B later releases a patch that updates the commercially available off-the-shelf software that is a component of SCADA System A. As the software is only a component of SCADA System A, the software itself is not covered investment critical infrastructure as set forth in column 1 of appendix A to this part. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation B does not perform one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to SCADA System A and is therefore not a TID U.S. business.
(9)
Example 9.
Alloy A is a steel alloy containing two percent manganese. Corporation A is a U.S. business that manufactures Alloy A in Facility A by melting the constituent metals. Facility A is in the United States. Corporation B is a U.S. business that purchases Alloy A from Corporation A and resells it to a prime contractor of the Department of Defense. Facility A is covered investment critical infrastructure as set forth in column 1 of appendix A to this part. Corporation A performs one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to Alloy A and is therefore a TID U.S. business. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation B does not perform one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to Alloy A and is therefore not a TID U.S. business.
(10)
Example 10.
Corporation A, a U.S. business, is a credit reporting agency and maintains consumer reports meeting the description under § 800.241(a)(1)(ii)(B) on greater than one million individuals, including U.S. citizens. Corporation A maintains sensitive personal data and is therefore a TID U.S. business.
(11)
Example 11.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (d)(10) of this section, except that Corporation A maintains the sensitive personal data through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Corporation X. Corporation A is a TID U.S. business because it indirectly maintains sensitive personal data. Corporation X is also a TID U.S. business because it directly maintains sensitive personal data.
(12)
Example 12.
Corporation A, a U.S. business, manufactures and sells specialty medical devices to patients with various health conditions. Corporation A solicits certain patient medical information on its five million customers, including U.S. citizens, which is sensitive personal data under § 800.241(a)(1)(ii)(D), for R
D, marketing, and quality assurance purposes. However, Corporation A does not directly maintain or collect this information, but instead outsources this function to a third party, Corporation X, which collects the data according to Corporation A's instructions and maintains the data on Corporation X's corporate servers for Corporation A to access. Corporation A is a TID U.S. business because it indirectly maintains and collects sensitive personal data, and Corporation X is a TID U.S. business because it directly maintains and collects sensitive personal data.
§ 800.249
Transaction.
The term
transaction
means any of the following, whether proposed or completed:
(a) A merger, acquisition, or takeover, including:
(1) The acquisition of an ownership interest in an entity;
(2) The acquisition of proxies from holders of a voting interest in an entity;
(3) A merger or consolidation;
(4) The formation of a joint venture; or
(5) A long-term lease or concession arrangement under which a lessee (or equivalent) makes substantially all
business decisions concerning the operation of a leased entity (or equivalent), as if it were the owner;
(b) An investment; or
(c) The conversion of a contingent equity interest.
(d) Example: Corporation A, a foreign person, signs a concession agreement to operate the toll road business of Corporation B, a U.S. business, for 99 years. Corporation B, however, is required under the agreement to perform safety and security functions with respect to the business and to monitor compliance by Corporation A with the operating requirements of the agreement on an ongoing basis. Corporation B may terminate the agreement or impose other penalties for breach of these operating requirements. Assuming no other relevant facts, this is not a transaction.

# Note 1 to § 800.249:
See § 800.308 regarding factors the Committee will consider in determining whether to include the access, rights, or involvement to be acquired by a foreign person upon the conversion of contingent equity interests as part of the Committee's analysis of whether a transaction that involves such interests is a covered transaction.
§ 800.250
Unaffiliated TID U.S. business.
The term
unaffiliated TID U.S. business
means, with respect to a foreign person, a TID U.S. business in which that foreign person does not directly hold more than 50 percent of the outstanding voting interest or have the right to appoint more than half of the members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body.
§ 800.251
United States.
The term
United States
or
U.S.
means the United States of America, the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, and any commonwealth, territory, dependency, or possession of the United States, or any subdivision of the foregoing, and includes the territorial sea of the United States. For purposes of these regulations and their examples in this part, an entity organized under the laws of the United States of America, one of the States, the District of Columbia, or a commonwealth, territory, dependency, or possession of the United States is an entity organized “in the United States.”
§ 800.252
U.S. business.
(a) The term
U.S. business
means any entity, irrespective of the nationality of the persons that control it, engaged in interstate commerce in the United States.
(b) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state and is wholly owned and controlled by a foreign national. It engages in interstate commerce in the United States through a branch or subsidiary. Its branch or subsidiary is a U.S. business. Corporation A and its branch or subsidiary are each also a foreign person.
(2)
Example 2.
Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state and is wholly owned and controlled by a foreign national. Corporation A does not have a branch office, subsidiary, or fixed place of business in the United States. It exports and licenses technology to an unrelated company in the United States. It also provides remote technical support services to customers that are in the United States, but does not have any assets or personnel located in the United States. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A is not a U.S. business.
(3)
Example 3.
Corporation A, a company organized under the laws of a foreign state, is wholly owned and controlled by Corporation X. Corporation X is organized in the United States and is wholly owned and controlled by U.S. nationals. Corporation A does not have a branch office, subsidiary, or fixed place of business in the United States. It exports goods to Corporation X and to unrelated companies in the United States. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A is not a U.S. business.
§ 800.253
U.S. national.
The term
U.S. national
means an individual who is a U.S. citizen or an individual who, although not a U.S. citizen, owes permanent allegiance to the United States.
§ 800.254
U.S. regulatory authorization.
The term
U.S. regulatory authorization
means:
(a) A license or other approval issued by the Department of State under the ITAR;
(b) A license from the Department of Commerce under the EAR;
(c) A specific or general authorization from the Department of Energy under the regulations governing assistance to foreign atomic energy activities at 10 CFR part 810 other than the general authorization described in 10 CFR 810.6(a); or
(d) A specific license from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission under the regulations governing the export or import of nuclear equipment and material at 10 CFR part 110.
[85 FR 57128, Sept. 15, 2020]
§ 800.255
Voting interest.
The term
voting interest
means any interest in an entity that entitles the owner or holder of that interest to vote for the election of directors of the entity (or, with respect to unincorporated entities, individuals exercising similar functions) or to vote on other matters affecting the entity.
[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020. Redesignated at 85 FR 57128, Sept. 15, 2020]
§ 800.256
Voting interest for purposes of critical technology mandatory declarations.
(a) The term
voting interest for purposes of critical technology mandatory declarations
means, for the purposes of § 800.401(c)(1)(v), a voting interest, direct or indirect, of 25 percent or more, subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b) In the case of an entity whose activities are primarily directed, controlled, or coordinated by or on behalf of a general partner, managing member, or equivalent, a person will be considered to have a
voting interest for purposes of critical technology mandatory declarations
in such entity only if it holds 25 percent or more of the interest in the general partner, managing member, or equivalent of the entity.
(c) For purposes of determining the percentage of
voting interest for purposes of critical technology mandatory declarations
held indirectly by one person in another, any interest of a parent will be deemed to be a 100 percent interest in any entity of which it is a parent.
(d) For purposes of § 800.401(c)(1)(v), foreign persons who are related, have formal or informal arrangements to act in concert, or are agencies or instrumentalities of, or controlled by, the national or subnational governments of a single foreign state are considered part of a group of foreign persons and their individual holdings are aggregated.
[85 FR 57128, Sept. 15, 2020]

# Subpart C—Coverage
§ 800.301
Transactions that are covered control transactions.
Transactions that are covered control transactions include:
(a) A transaction which, irrespective of the actual arrangements for control provided for in the terms of the transaction, results or could result in control of a U.S. business by a foreign person. (See the examples in paragraphs (e)(1), (2), and (3) of this section.)
(b) A transaction in which a foreign person conveys its control of a U.S. business to another foreign person. (See the example in paragraph (e)(4) of this section.)
(c) A transaction that results or could result in control by a foreign person of any part of an entity or of assets, if such part of an entity or assets constitutes a U.S. business. (See § 800.302(c) and the examples in paragraphs (e)(5) through (14) of this section.)
(d) A joint venture in which the parties enter into a contractual or other similar arrangement, including an agreement on the establishment of a new entity, but only if one or more of the parties contributes a U.S. business and a foreign person could control that U.S. business by means of the joint venture. (See the examples in paragraphs (e)(15) through (17) of this section.)
(e) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to purchase all of the shares of Corporation X, which is a U.S. business. As the sole owner, Corporation A will have the right to elect
directors and appoint other primary officers of Corporation X, and those directors will have the right to make decisions about the closing and relocation of particular production facilities and the termination of significant contracts. The directors also will have the right to propose to Corporation A, the sole shareholder, the dissolution of Corporation X and the sale of its principal assets. The proposed transaction is a covered control transaction.
(2)
Example 2.
Same facts as the example (e)(1) of this section, except that Corporation A plans to retain the existing directors of Corporation X, all of whom are U.S. nationals. Although Corporation A may choose not to exercise its power to elect new directors for Corporation X, Corporation A nevertheless will have that exercisable power. The proposed transaction is a covered control transaction.
(3)
Example 3.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to purchase 50 percent of the voting shares in Corporation X, a U.S. business, from Corporation B, also a U.S. business. The governance documents of Corporation X provide that important decisions require the affirmative vote of more than half of the votes cast. Corporation B would retain the other 50 percent of the shares in Corporation X, and Corporation A and Corporation B would contractually agree that Corporation A would not exercise its voting and other rights for 10 years. The proposed transaction is a covered control transaction.
(4)
Example 4.
Corporation X is a U.S. business, but is wholly owned and controlled by Corporation Y, a foreign person. Corporation Z, also a foreign person, but not related to Corporation Y, seeks to acquire Corporation X from Corporation Y. The proposed transaction is a covered control transaction because it could result in control of Corporation X, a U.S. business, by another foreign person, Corporation Z.
(5)
Example 5.
Corporation X, a foreign person, has a branch office located in the United States. Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to buy that branch office. The proposed transaction is a covered control transaction.
(6)
Example 6.
Corporation A, a foreign person, buys a branch office located entirely outside the United States of Corporation Y, which is incorporated in the United States. Assuming no other relevant facts, the branch office of Corporation Y is not a U.S. business, and the transaction is not a covered control transaction.
(7)
Example 7.
Corporation A, a foreign person, makes a start-up, or “greenfield,” investment in the United States. That investment involves activities such as the foreign person separately arranging for the financing of and the construction of a plant to make a new product, buying supplies and inputs, hiring personnel, and purchasing the necessary technology. The investment involves incorporating a newly formed subsidiary of the foreign person. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A will not have acquired a U.S. business, and its greenfield investment is not a covered control transaction. However, this transaction may be subject to the provisions of part 802 of this title, which addresses certain transactions concerning real estate.
(8)
Example 8.
Corporation A, a foreign person, intends to make an early-stage investment in a start-up company in the United States. Prior to the investment by the foreign person, the start-up has engaged in interstate commerce, including incorporating, establishing a domain name, hiring personnel, developing business plans, seeking financing, and renting office space, without the involvement of the foreign person. As a result of the investment, Corporation A could control the U.S. business. Corporation A is acquiring a U.S. business and the proposed transaction is a covered control transaction.
(9)
Example 9.
Corporation A, a foreign person, purchases substantially all of the assets of Corporation B. Corporation B, which is incorporated in the United States, was in the business of producing industrial equipment, but stopped producing and selling such equipment one week before Corporation A purchased substantially all of its assets. At the time of the transaction, Corporation B continued to have employees on its payroll, maintained know-how in producing the industrial equipment it previously produced, and maintained relationships
with its prior customers, all of which were transferred to Corporation A. Corporation A has acquired a U.S. business and the acquisition is a covered control transaction.
(10)
Example 10.
Corporation X, a foreign person, seeks to acquire from Corporation A, a U.S. business, an empty warehouse facility located in the United States. The acquisition would be limited to the physical facility, and would not include customer lists, intellectual property, or other proprietary information, or other intangible assets or the transfer of personnel. Assuming no other relevant facts, the facility is not an entity and therefore not a U.S. business, and the proposed acquisition of the facility is not a covered control transaction. However, this transaction may be subject to the provisions of part 802 of this chapter, which addresses certain transactions concerning real estate.
(11)
Example 11.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (e)(10) of this section, except that, in addition to the proposed acquisition of Corporation A's warehouse facility, Corporation X would acquire the personnel, customer list, equipment, and inventory management software used to operate the facility. Under these facts, Corporation X is acquiring a U.S. business, and the proposed acquisition is a covered control transaction.
(12)
Example 12.
Corporation A, a foreign person, seeks to acquire from Corporation X, a U.S. business, certain tangible and intangible assets that Corporation X operates as a business in the United States. Corporation A intends to use the assets to establish a business undertaking in a foreign country. Under these facts, Corporation X is acquiring a U.S. business, and the proposed acquisition is a covered control transaction.
(13)
Example 13.
Corporation A, a foreign person, seeks to acquire from Corporation X, a U.S. business, proprietary software developed by Corporation X. The acquisition would be limited to the software and would not include customer lists, marketing material, or other proprietary information; any other tangible or intangible assets; or the transfer of personnel. Assuming no other relevant facts, the software does not constitute an entity and is therefore not a U.S. business, and the proposed acquisition of the software is not a covered control transaction.
(14)
Example 14.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (e)(13) of this section, except that, in addition to the proposed acquisition of Corporation X's proprietary software, Corporation A would acquire Corporation X's customer lists, advertising and promotional material, branding, trademarks, domain names, and internet presence. Under these facts, Corporation A is acquiring a U.S. business, and the proposed acquisition is a covered control transaction.
(15)
Example 15.
Corporation A, a foreign person, and Corporation X, a U.S. business, form a separate corporation, JV Corporation, to which Corporation A contributes only cash and Corporation X contributes a U.S. business. Each owns 50 percent of the shares of JV Corporation and, under the Articles of Incorporation of JV Corporation, both Corporation A and Corporation X have veto power over matters affecting JV Corporation identified under § 800.208, giving them both control over JV Corporation. The place of incorporation of JV Corporation is not relevant to the determination of whether the transaction is a covered control transaction. The formation of JV Corporation is a covered control transaction.
(16)
Example 16.
Corporation A, a foreign person, and Corporation X, a U.S. business, form a separate corporation, JV Corporation, to which Corporation A contributes funding and managerial and technical personnel, while Corporation X contributes certain land and equipment that do not in this example constitute a U.S. business. Corporations A and X each have a 50 percent interest in the joint venture. Assuming no other relevant facts, the formation of JV Corporation is not a covered control transaction. However, this transaction may be subject to the provisions of part 802 of this title, which addresses certain transactions concerning real estate.
(17)
Example 17.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (e)(16) of this section, except that, in addition to contributing certain land and equipment,
Corporation X also contributes intellectual property, other proprietary information, and other intangible assets, that together with the land and equipment constitute a U.S. business, to JV Corporation. Under these facts, Corporation X has contributed a U.S. business, and the formation of JV Corporation is a covered control transaction.
§ 800.302
Transactions that are not covered control transactions.
Transactions that are not covered control transactions include:
(a) A stock split or pro rata stock dividend that does not involve a change in control. See the example in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
(b) A transaction that results in a foreign person holding 10 percent or less of the outstanding voting interest in a U.S. business (regardless of the dollar value of the interest so acquired), but only if the transaction is solely for the purpose of passive investment. (See § 800.243 and the examples in paragraphs (f)(2) through (4) of this section.)
(c) An acquisition of any part of an entity or of assets, if such part of an entity or assets do not constitute a U.S. business. (See § 800.301(c) and the examples in paragraphs (f)(5) through (10) of this section.)
(d) An acquisition of securities by a person acting as a securities underwriter, in the ordinary course of business and in the process of underwriting.
(e) An acquisition pursuant to a condition in a contract of insurance relating to fidelity, surety, or casualty obligations if the contract was made by an insurer in the ordinary course of business.
(f) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person, holds 10,000 shares of Corporation B, a U.S. business, constituting 10 percent of the stock of Corporation B. Corporation B pays a 2-for-1 stock dividend. As a result of this stock split, Corporation A holds 20,000 shares of Corporation B, still constituting 10 percent of the stock of Corporation B. Assuming no other relevant facts, the acquisition of additional shares is not a covered control transaction.
(2)
Example 2.
In an open market purchase solely for the purpose of passive investment, Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires seven percent of the voting securities of Corporation X, which is a U.S. business. Assuming no other relevant facts, the acquisition of the securities is not a covered control transaction.
(3)
Example 3.
Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires nine percent of the voting shares of Corporation X, a U.S. business. Corporation A also negotiates contractual rights that give it the power to control important matters of Corporation X. The acquisition by Corporation A of the voting shares of Corporation X is not solely for the purpose of passive investment and is a covered control transaction.
(4)
Example 4.
Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires five percent of the voting shares in Corporation B, a U.S. business. In addition to the securities, Corporation A obtains the right to appoint one out of eleven seats on Corporation B's board of directors. The acquisition by Corporation A of Corporation B's securities is not solely for the purpose of passive investment. Whether the transaction is a covered control transaction would depend on whether Corporation A obtains control of Corporation B as a result of the transaction. See § 800.303 for transactions that are covered investments.
(5)
Example 5.
Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires, from separate U.S. nationals products held in inventory, land, and machinery for export. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A has not acquired a U.S. business, and this acquisition is not a covered control transaction.
(6)
Example 6.
Corporation X, a U.S. business, produces armored personnel carriers in the United States. Corporation A, a foreign person, seeks to acquire the annual production of those carriers from Corporation X under a long-term contract. Assuming no other relevant facts, this transaction is not a covered control transaction.
(7)
Example 7.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (f)(6) of this section, except that Corporation X, a U.S. business, has developed important technology in connection with the production of armored personnel carriers.
Corporation A seeks to negotiate an agreement under which it would be licensed to manufacture using that technology. Assuming no other relevant facts, neither the proposed acquisition of technology pursuant to that license agreement, nor the actual acquisition, is a covered control transaction.
(8)
Example 8.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (f)(6) of this section, except that Corporation A enters into a contractual arrangement to acquire the entire armored personnel carrier business operations of Corporation X, including production facilities, customer lists, technology, and staff, which together constitute a U.S. business. This transaction is a covered control transaction.
(9)
Example 9.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (f)(6) of this section, except that Corporation X suspended all activities of its armored personnel carrier business a year ago and currently is in bankruptcy proceedings. Existing equipment provided by Corporation X is being serviced by another company, which purchased the service contracts from Corporation X. The business's production facilities are idle but still in working condition, some of its key former employees have agreed to return if the business is resuscitated, and its technology and customer and vendor lists are still current. Corporation X's personnel carrier business constitutes a U.S. business, and its purchase by Corporation A is a covered control transaction.
(10)
Example 10.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (f)(6) of this section, except that Corporation A and Corporation X establish a joint venture that will be controlled by Corporation A to manufacture armored personnel carriers outside the United States, and Corporation X contributes assets constituting a U.S. business, including intellectual property and other intangible assets required to manufacture the armored personnel carriers, to the joint venture. Corporation X has contributed a U.S. business to the joint venture, and the establishment of the joint venture is a covered control transaction.
(11)
Example 11.
Corporation A, a foreign person, holds a 10 percent ownership interest in Corporation X, a U.S. business. Corporation A and Corporation X enter into a contractual arrangement pursuant to which Corporation A gains the right to purchase an additional interest in Corporation X to prevent the dilution of Corporation A's
pro rata
interest in Corporation X in the event that Corporation X issues additional instruments conveying interests in Corporation X. Corporation A does not acquire any additional rights or ownership interest in Corporation X pursuant to the contractual arrangement. Assuming no other relevant facts, the transaction is not a covered control transaction.
§ 800.303
Transactions that are covered investments.
Transactions that are covered investments include:
(a) A transaction that meets the requirements of § 800.211 irrespective of the percentage of voting interest acquired. (See the examples in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.)
(b) A transaction that meets the requirements of § 800.211, irrespective of the fact that the Committee concluded all action under section 721 for a previous covered investment by the same foreign person in the same TID U.S. business, where such transaction involves the acquisition of access, rights, or involvement specified in § 800.211 in addition to those notified to the Committee in the transaction for which the Committee previously concluded action. (See the example in paragraph (d)(4) of this section.)
(c) A transaction that meets the requirements of § 800.211, irrespective of the fact that the critical technology produced, designed, tested, manufactured, fabricated, or developed by the TID U.S. business became controlled under section 1758 of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 after February 13, 2020, unless any of the criteria set forth in § 800.104(b) are satisfied with respect to the transaction prior to the critical technology becoming controlled. (See the example in paragraph (d)(5) of this section.)
(d) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, proposes to acquire a four percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B, an entity in which Corporation A has no voting interests or any rights. Corporation B is a U.S. business that manufactures a critical technology. Corporation B is therefore an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. Pursuant to the terms of the investment, a designee of Corporation A will have the right to observe the meetings of the board of directors of Corporation B. The proposed transaction is a covered investment.
(2)
Example 2.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, except that, pursuant to the terms of the investment, instead of observer rights, Corporation A has consultation rights with respect to Corporation B's licensing of a critical technology to third parties. Corporation A is therefore involved in substantive decisionmaking with respect to Corporation B, and the proposed transaction is a covered investment.
(3)
Example 3.
Corporation A is a foreign person that is an excepted investor. Corporation B, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, owns a three percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation A. Corporation A proposes to acquire a four percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation C, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. Pursuant to the terms of the investment in Corporation C and Corporation A's governance documents, Corporation A and Corporation B will each have access to material nonpublic technical information in Corporation C's possession. The transaction is a covered investment because Corporation B is making an investment that will result in access to material nonpublic technical information under § 800.211(b).
(4)
Example 4.
The Committee concludes all action under section 721 with respect to a covered investment by Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, in which Corporation A acquires a four percent, non-controlling equity interest with access to material non-public information in Corporation B, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. One year later, Corporation A proposes to acquire an additional five percent equity interest in Corporation B, resulting in Corporation A holding a nine percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B. Pursuant to the terms of the additional investment, Corporation A will receive the right to appoint a member to the board of directors of Corporation B. The proposed transaction is a covered investment because the transaction involves both an acquisition of an equity interest in an unaffiliated TID U.S. business and a new right under § 800.211.
(5)
Example 5.
Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, has executed a binding written agreement establishing the material terms of a proposed non-controlling investment in Corporation B, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. The proposed investment will afford Corporation A access to material nonpublic technical information in the possession of Corporation B. The only controlled technology produced, designed, tested, manufactured, fabricated, or developed by Corporation B became controlled under section 1758 of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 after February 13, 2020, but prior to the date upon which the binding written agreement establishing the material terms of the investment was executed. The proposed transaction is a covered investment.
§ 800.304
Transactions that are not covered investments.
Transactions that are not covered investments include:
(a) An investment by a foreign person in an unaffiliated TID U.S. business that does not afford the foreign person any of the access, rights, or involvement specified in § 800.211(b). (See the examples in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.)
(b) An investment by a foreign person who is an excepted investor in an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. (See the example in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.)
(c) A transaction that results or could result in control by a foreign person of an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. (See the example in paragraph (f)(4) of this section.)
(d) A stock split or pro rata stock dividend that does not afford the foreign person any of the access, rights, or involvement specified in § 800.211(b). (See the example in paragraph (f)(5) of this section.)
(e) An acquisition of securities by a person acting as a securities underwriter, in the ordinary course of business and in the process of underwriting.
(f) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
In an open market purchase solely for the purpose of passive investment, Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, acquires seven percent of the voting securities of Corporation X, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. Assuming no other relevant facts, the acquisition of the securities is not a covered investment.
(2)
Example 2.
The Committee concluded all action under section 721 with respect to a covered investment in which Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, acquired a four percent, non-controlling equity interest with board observer rights in Corporation B, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. One year later, Corporation A proposes to acquire an additional five percent equity interest in Corporation B, which would result in Corporation A holding a nine percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B. The proposed investment does not afford Corporation A any additional access, rights, or involvement with respect to Corporation B, including the access, rights, or involvement specified in § 800.211(b). Assuming no other relevant facts, the proposed transaction is not a covered investment.
(3)
Example 3.
Corporation A, a foreign person who is an excepted investor, proposes to acquire a four percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. Pursuant to the terms of the investment, a designee of Corporation A will have the right to observe the meetings of the board of directors of Corporation B. Assuming no other relevant facts, the proposed transaction is not a covered investment.
(4)
Example 4.
Corporation A, a foreign person who is an excepted investor, proposes to purchase all of the shares of Corporation B, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. As the sole owner, Corporation A will have the right to elect directors and appoint other primary officers of Corporation B. Assuming no other relevant facts, the proposed transaction is not a covered investment. It is, however, a covered control transaction. Whether Corporation A is an excepted investor and whether Corporation B is an unaffiliated TID U.S. business are not relevant to the determination of whether the transaction is a covered control transaction. (See § 800.301.)
(5)
Example 5.
Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, holds 10,000 shares and board observer rights in Corporation B, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business, constituting 10 percent of the stock of Corporation B. Corporation B pays a 2-for-1 stock dividend. As a result of this stock split, Corporation A holds 20,000 shares of Corporation B, still constituting 10 percent of the stock of Corporation B. The investment does not afford Corporation A any additional access, rights, or involvement with respect to Corporation B, including those specified in § 800.211(b). Assuming no other relevant facts, the acquisition of additional shares is not a covered investment.
§ 800.305
Incremental acquisitions.
(a) Any transaction in which a foreign person acquires an additional interest in, or for which a change in rights of the foreign person occurs with respect to, a U.S. business over which the same foreign person, or any entity that it wholly owns directly or indirectly, previously acquired direct control as a result of a covered control transaction for which the Committee concluded all action under section 721 shall be deemed not to be a covered transaction. If, however, a foreign person that did not acquire control of the U.S. business in the prior transaction is a party to the later transaction, the later transaction may be a covered transaction.
(b) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person, directly acquires a 40 percent voting interest and important
rights with respect to Corporation B, a U.S. business. The documentation pertaining to the transaction gives no indication that Corporation A's interest in Corporation B may increase at a later date. Corporation A and Corporation B file a voluntary notice of the transaction with the Committee. Following its review of the transaction, the Committee informs the parties that the notified transaction is a covered control transaction, and concludes action under section 721. Three years later, Corporation A acquires the remainder of the voting interest in Corporation B. Assuming no other relevant facts, because the Committee concluded all action with respect to Corporation A's earlier direct acquisition of control in the same U.S. business, and because no other foreign person is a party to this subsequent transaction, this subsequent transaction is not a covered transaction.
(2)
Example 2.
Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, makes a covered investment in Corporation B, an unaffiliated U.S. TID business, pursuant to which Corporation A acquires a five percent non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B that affords it access to material nonpublic technical information of Corporation B. Following its review of the transaction, the Committee informs the parties that the notified transaction is a covered investment, and concludes action under section 721. Two years later, Corporation A, in a subsequent investment, acquires an additional five percent non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B, which affords Corporation A the right to appoint one board member of Corporation A. The subsequent investment is a covered investment.
(3)
Example 3.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, except that instead of Corporation A acquiring the remainder of the voting interest in Corporation B three years after the initial acquisition, the remaining 60 percent voting interest is acquired by Corporation X. Corporation X is wholly owned by Corporation Y. Corporation Y also owns 100 percent of Corporation A. The subsequent transaction may be a covered transaction because, while Corporation A and Corporation X are both under common ownership of Corporation Y, Corporation A (the direct acquirer in the initial transaction) does not wholly own Corporation X.
§ 800.306
Lending transactions.
(a) The extension of a loan or a similar financing arrangement by a foreign person to a U.S. business, regardless of whether accompanied by the creation in favor of the foreign person of a secured interest over securities or other assets of the U.S. business, shall not, by itself, constitute a covered transaction.
(1) The Committee will accept notices or declarations concerning a loan or a similar financing arrangement that does not, by itself, constitute a covered transaction only at the time that, because of imminent or actual default or other condition, there is a significant possibility that the foreign person may obtain control of a U.S. business, or acquire equity interest and access, rights, or involvement specified in § 800.211(b) over a TID U.S. business, as a result of the default or other condition.
(2) Where the Committee accepts a notice or declaration concerning a loan or a similar financing arrangement under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and a party to the transaction is a foreign person that makes loans in the ordinary course of business, the Committee will take into account whether the foreign person has made any arrangements to transfer management decisions, or day-to-day control over the U.S. business to U.S. nationals or, as applicable, excepted investors for purposes of determining whether such loan or financing arrangement constitutes a covered transaction.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a loan or a similar financing arrangement through which a foreign person acquires an interest in profits of a U.S. business, the right to appoint members of the board of directors of the U.S. business, or other comparable financial or governance rights characteristic of an equity investment but not of a typical loan may constitute a covered transaction.
(c) An acquisition of voting interest in or assets of a U.S. business by a foreign person upon default or other condition involving a loan or a similar financing arrangement does not constitute a covered transaction, provided that the loan was made by a syndicate of banks in a loan participation where the foreign lender (or lenders) in the syndicate:
(1) Needs the majority consent of the U.S. participants in the syndicate to take action, and cannot on its own initiate any action vis-à-vis the debtor; or
(2) Does not have a lead role in the syndicate, and is subject to a provision in the loan or financing documents limiting its ability to:
(i) Control the debtor such that control for purposes of § 800.208 could not be acquired; and
(ii) Exercise any access, rights, or involvement specified in § 800.211(b).
(d) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
Corporation A, which is a U.S. business, borrows funds from Corporation B, a bank organized under the laws of a foreign state and controlled by foreign persons. As a condition of the loan, Corporation A agrees not to sell or pledge its principal assets to any person. Assuming no other relevant facts, this lending arrangement does not alone constitute a covered transaction.
(2)
Example 2.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, except that Corporation A defaults on its loan from Corporation B and seeks bankruptcy protection. Corporation A has no funds with which to satisfy Corporation B's claim, which is greater than the value of Corporation A's principal assets. Corporation B's secured claim constitutes the only secured claim against Corporation A's principal assets, creating a high probability that Corporation B will receive title to Corporation A's principal assets, which constitute a U.S. business. Assuming no other relevant facts, the Committee would accept a notice of the impending bankruptcy court adjudication transferring control of Corporation A's principal assets to Corporation B, which would constitute a covered control transaction.
(3)
Example 3.
Corporation A, a foreign bank, makes a loan to Corporation B, a U.S. business. The loan documentation provides Corporation A the right to appoint a majority of the board of directors of Corporation B and the right to be paid dividends by Corporation B. These rights are characteristic of an equity interest but not of a typical loan. Also, as a result of the transaction, under the terms of the loan documentation, Corporation A has the power to determine, direct, or decide important matters affecting Corporation B. This loan is a covered control transaction.
(4)
Example 4.
Corporation A, a foreign bank that is not an excepted investor, makes a loan to Corporation B, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. The loan documentation provides Corporation A the right to appoint one out of fifteen seats on Corporation B's board of directors and the right to be paid dividends by Corporation B. These rights are characteristic of an equity interest but not of a typical loan. However, assuming no other relevant facts under the terms of the loan documentation, Corporation A does not have the power to determine, direct, or decide important matters affecting Corporation B. This loan is a covered investment.
§ 800.307
Specific clarification for investment funds.
(a) Notwithstanding § 800.303, an indirect investment by a foreign person in a TID U.S. business through an investment fund that affords the foreign person (or a designee of the foreign person) membership as a limited partner or equivalent on an advisory board or a committee of the fund shall not be considered a covered investment if:
(1) The fund is managed exclusively by a general partner, a managing member, or an equivalent;
(2) The general partner, managing member, or equivalent of the fund is not a foreign person;
(3) The advisory board or committee does not have the ability to approve, disapprove, or otherwise control:
(i) Investment decisions of the investment fund; or
(ii) Decisions made by the general partner, managing member, or equivalent related to entities in which the investment fund is invested;
(4) The foreign person does not otherwise have the ability to control the investment fund, including the authority:
(i) To approve, disapprove, or otherwise control investment decisions of the investment fund;
(ii) To approve, disapprove, or otherwise control decisions made by the general partner, managing member, or equivalent related to entities in which the investment fund is invested; or
(iii) To unilaterally dismiss, prevent the dismissal of, select, or determine the compensation of the general partner, managing member, or equivalent;
(5) The foreign person does not have access to material nonpublic technical information as a result of its participation on the advisory board or committee; and
(6) The investment does not afford the foreign person any of the access, rights, or involvement specified in § 800.211(b).
(b) For the purposes of paragraphs (a)(3) and (4) of this section, and except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a waiver of a potential conflict of interest, a waiver of an allocation limitation, or a similar activity, applicable to a transaction pursuant to the terms of an agreement governing an investment fund shall not be considered to constitute control of investment decisions of the investment fund or decisions relating to entities in which the investment fund is invested.
(c) In extraordinary circumstances, the Committee may consider the waiver of a potential conflict of interest, the waiver of an allocation limitation, or a similar activity, applicable to a transaction pursuant to the terms of an agreement governing an investment fund, to constitute control of investment decisions of the investment fund or decisions relating to entities in which the investment fund is invested.
(d) Example: Limited Partner A, a foreign person, is a limited partner in an investment fund that invests in Corporation B, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. The investment fund is managed exclusively by a general partner, who is not a foreign person. The investment affords Limited Partner A membership on an advisory board of the investment fund. The advisory board provides industry expertise, but it does not control investment decisions of the fund or decisions made by the general partner related to entities in which the fund is invested. Limited Partner A does not otherwise have the ability to control the fund. Limited Partner A's investment in Corporation B does not afford it access to any material nonpublic technical information in the possession of Corporation B, the right to be a member or observer, or to nominate a member or observer, to the board of Corporation B, nor any involvement in the substantive decisionmaking of Corporation B. Assuming no other facts, the indirect investment by Limited Partner A is not a covered investment.
§ 800.308
Timing rule for a contingent equity interest.
(a) For purposes of determining whether to include the rights that a holder of a contingent equity interest will acquire upon conversion of, or exercise of a right provided by, that interest in the Committee's analysis of whether a notified transaction is a covered transaction, the Committee will consider factors that include:
(1) The imminence of conversion or satisfaction of contingent conditions;
(2) Whether conversion or satisfaction of contingent conditions depends on factors within the control of the acquiring party; and
(3) Whether the amount of interest and the rights that would be acquired upon conversion or satisfaction of contingent conditions can be reasonably determined at the time of acquisition.
(b) When the Committee, applying paragraph (a) of this section, determines that the rights that the holder will acquire upon conversion or satisfaction of contingent condition will not be included in the Committee's analysis of whether a notified or submitted transaction is a covered transaction, the Committee will disregard the contingent equity interest for purposes of that transaction except to the extent that they convey immediate rights to the holder with respect to the entity that issued the interest.
(c) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person, notifies the Committee
that it intends to buy common stock and debentures of Corporation X, a U.S. business. By their terms, the debentures are convertible into common stock only upon the occurrence of an event the timing of which is not in the control of Corporation A, and the number of common shares that would be acquired upon conversion cannot now be determined. Assuming no other relevant facts, the Committee will disregard the debentures in the course of its covered transaction analysis at the time that Corporation A acquires the debentures. In the event that it determines that the acquisition of the common stock is not a covered transaction, the Committee will so inform the parties. Once the conversion of the instruments becomes imminent, it may be appropriate for the Committee to consider the rights that would result from the conversion and whether the conversion is a covered transaction. The conversion of those debentures into common stock could be a covered transaction, depending on what percentage of Corporation X's voting securities Corporation A would receive and what powers those securities would confer on Corporation A.
(2)
Example 2.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, except that the debentures at issue are convertible at the sole discretion of Corporation A after six months, and if converted, would represent a 50 percent interest in Corporation X. The Committee may consider the rights that would result from the conversion as part of its analysis.

# Subpart D—Declarations
§ 800.401
Mandatory declarations.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d), (e), or (f) of this section, the parties to a transaction described in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section shall submit to the Committee a declaration with information regarding the transaction in accordance with § 800.403.
(b)(1) Subject to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a covered transaction that results in the acquisition of a substantial interest in a TID U.S. business by a foreign person in which the national or subnational governments of a single foreign state (other than an excepted foreign state) have a substantial interest.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the assessment of what constitutes a critical technology, as relevant to § 800.248(a), shall be as of the first date on which one of the conditions set forth in § 800.104(b)(1) through (4) is met with respect to a covered transaction.
(c)(1) Subject to paragraph (c)(3) of this section, a covered transaction involving a TID U.S. business that produces, designs, tests, manufactures, fabricates, or develops one or more critical technologies for which a U.S. regulatory authorization would be required for the export, reexport, transfer (in-country), or retransfer of such critical technology to a person that:
(i) Could directly control such TID U.S. business as a result of the covered transaction;
(ii) Is directly acquiring an interest that is a covered investment in such TID U.S. business;
(iii) Has a direct investment in such TID U.S. business, the rights of such person with respect to such TID U.S. business are changing, and such change in rights could result in a covered control transaction or a covered investment;
(iv) Is a party to any transaction, transfer, agreement, or arrangement described in § 800.213(d) with respect to such TID U.S. business; or
(v) Individually holds, or as described in § 800.256(d) is part of a group of foreign persons that, in the aggregate, holds, a voting interest for purposes of critical technology mandatory declarations in a person described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, whether a U.S. regulatory authorization would be required for the export, reexport, transfer (in-country), or retransfer of a critical technology to a person described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (v) of this section shall be determined:
(i) Without giving effect to any license exemption available under the ITAR or license exception available under the EAR except as described paragraph in (e)(6) of this section;
(ii) Based on such person's principal place of business (for entities) as defined in § 800.239, or such person's nationality or nationalities (for individuals) under the relevant U.S. regulatory authorization, as applicable; and
(iii) As if such person is an “end user” under the relevant U.S. regulatory authorization, as applicable.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the assessment of what constitutes a critical technology shall be as of the first date on which one of the conditions set forth in § 800.104(b)(1) through (4) is met with respect to a covered transaction. (See the example in paragraph (j)(6) of this section.)
(d) The submission of a declaration shall not be required under paragraph (b) of this section with respect to:
(1) A covered transaction by an investment fund if:
(i) The fund is managed exclusively by a general partner, a managing member, or an equivalent;
(ii) The general partner, managing member, or equivalent is not a foreign person; and
(iii) The investment fund satisfies, with respect to any foreign person with membership as a limited partner on an advisory board or a committee of the fund, the criteria specified in § 800.307(a)(3) and (4) (See the examples in paragraphs (j)(2) and (3) of this section); or
(2) A covered control transaction involving an air carrier, as defined in 49 U.S.C. 40102(a)(2), that holds a certificate issued under 49 U.S.C. 41102.
(e) The submission of a declaration shall not be required under paragraph (c) of this section with respect to:
(1) A covered control transaction by an excepted investor;
(2) A covered transaction in which the foreign person's indirect investment in the TID U.S. business is held solely and directly via an entity that as of the completion date is:
(i) Subject to a security control agreement, special security agreement, voting trust agreement, or proxy agreement approved by a cognizant security agency to offset foreign ownership, control, or influence pursuant to the National Industrial Security Program regulations (32 CFR part 2004); and
(ii) Operating under a valid facility security clearance pursuant to the National Industrial Security Program regulations (32 CFR part 2004);
(3) A covered transaction by an investment fund if:
(i) The fund is managed exclusively by a general partner, a managing member, or an equivalent;
(ii) The general partner, managing member, or equivalent is:
(A) Ultimately controlled exclusively by U.S. nationals; or
(B) Not a foreign person; and
(iii) The investment fund satisfies, with respect to any foreign person with membership as a limited partner on an advisory board or a committee of the fund, the criteria specified in § 800.307(a)(3) and (4) (See the examples in paragraphs (j)(2) and (3) of this section);
(4) An investment that is a covered investment solely due to the application of § 800.219(d);
(5) A covered control transaction involving an air carrier, as defined in 49 U.S.C. 40102(a)(2), that holds a certificate issued under 49 U.S.C. 41102; or
(6) A covered transaction described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section involving critical technology for which the export, reexport, transfer (in-country), or retransfer to any of the persons described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (v) of this section would require one or more U.S. regulatory authorizations and each such critical technology and person, considered as if in the context of an export, reexport, or transfer, is eligible for at least one of the following license exceptions under the EAR, as applicable:
(i) 15 CFR 740.13;
(ii) 15 CFR 740.17(b); or
(iii) 15 CFR 740.20(c)(1).

# Note 1 to § 800.401(
e

# )(6):
To be “eligible” for a license exception refers to any requirements imposed by the EAR that must be satisfied prior to export even if no export is to occur.
(f) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, parties to a covered transaction may elect to submit a written notice under subpart E of this part regarding the transaction instead of a declaration.
(g) Parties shall submit to the Committee the declaration required under
paragraph (a) of this section, or a written notice under paragraph (f) of this section, no later than:
(1) February 13, 2020, or promptly thereafter, if the completion date of the transaction is between February 13, 2020 and March 14, 2020; or
(2) Thirty days before the completion date of the transaction, if the completion date of the transaction is after March 14, 2020.
(h) Notwithstanding paragraph (g) of this section, the parties to a covered transaction may complete a transaction subject to a mandatory declaration or notice under this section at any time after having been informed in writing by the Committee that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 or that the Committee is not able to complete action under § 800.407(a)(2).
(i) In the event that the Committee rejects or permits a withdrawal of a declaration or notice required under this section, the parties shall not complete the transaction earlier than 30 days after the date of the resubmission, except with the written approval of the Staff Chairperson.
(j) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor and in which no foreign government has a substantial interest, proposes to acquire a four percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business that manufactures a critical technology. Under the terms of the investment, a designee of Corporation A will have the right to observe the meetings of the board of directors of Corporation B. Corporation B manufactures the critical technology for commercial off-the-shelf use by businesses in various industries, including some identified in appendix B to this part. Assuming no other relevant facts, the proposed transaction is a covered investment, but is not subject to a mandatory declaration or notice under § 800.401 because Corporation B does not produce, design, test, manufacture, fabricate, or develop the critical technology specifically for use in one or more industries identified in appendix B to this part.
(2)
Example 2.
Investment Fund A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, acquires a 10 percent equity interest in Corporation A, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business, and the right to appoint one member of Corporation A's board of directors. Corporation A is manufacturing critical technologies utilized in Corporation A's activity in one or more industries identified in appendix B to this part. Investment Fund A satisfies the requirements under paragraph (e)(3) of this section. Investment Fund A's investment in Corporation A is a covered investment, but the transaction is not subject to the mandatory declaration requirement.
(3)
Example 3.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (j)(2) of this section, except that in connection with Investment Fund A's transaction, Limited Partner X, a limited partner of Investment Fund A and a foreign national that is not an excepted investor, receives access to the material non-public technical information of Corporation A. Limited Partner X's indirect investment in Corporation A is a covered investment. While Investment Fund A's direct investment is not subject to a mandatory declaration, Limited Partner X's indirect investment in Corporation A is subject to a mandatory declaration.
(4)
Example 4.
Corporation A, a foreign entity with its principal place of business in Country F, acquires 100 percent of the interests of Corporation Y, a U.S. business that manufactures a critical technology controlled under the EAR. A foreign national of Country G owns 25 percent of the voting shares of Corporation A. Under the EAR, a license is required to export the critical technology to Country G but not Country F. Assuming no other relevant facts, the acquisition of Corporation Y is subject to a mandatory declaration.
(5)
Example 5.
Corporation B, a foreign entity with its principal place of business in Country G, makes a covered investment in Corporation Z, a U.S. business that designs a critical technology controlled under the EAR. Under the EAR, a license is required to export the critical technology to Country G. The license exception at 15 CFR 740.4 authorizes Corporation Z to export the critical technology to Country G without a license. Assuming no other
relevant facts, the covered investment is subject to a mandatory declaration.
(6)
Example 6.
Corporation A, a foreign person, and Corporation B, a U.S. business, execute a binding written agreement pursuant to which Corporation A will acquire a 10 percent equity interest in Corporation B and will be afforded the right to appoint two members of Corporation B's board of directors. As of the date of the agreement, none of the items that Corporation B manufactures constitutes a critical technology. After the agreement is executed, but prior to the completion of the transaction, a product manufactured by Corporation B is included as a defense article on the USML. Assuming no other relevant facts, under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the transaction is not subject to a requirement to submit a declaration to the Committee. However for purposes of § 800.211, the transaction may be a covered investment.
[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020; 85 FR 8747, Feb. 18, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 57128, Sept. 15, 2020]
§ 800.402
Voluntary declarations.
Except as otherwise prohibited under § 800.403(e), a party to any proposed or completed transaction may submit to the Committee a declaration regarding the transaction in accordance with the procedures and requirements set forth in §§ 800.403 and 800.404 instead of a written notice.
§ 800.403
Procedures for declarations.
(a) A party or parties submitting a declaration of a transaction under § 800.401 or § 800.402 shall submit electronically the information set out in § 800.404, including the certifications required thereunder, to the Staff Chairperson in accordance with the submission instructions on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
(b) No communications other than those described in paragraph (a) of this section shall constitute the submission of a declaration for purposes of section 721.
(c) Information and other documentary material submitted to the Committee under this section shall be considered to have been filed with the President or the President's designee for purposes of section 721(c) and § 800.802.
(d) Persons filing a declaration shall, during the time that the matter is pending before the Committee, promptly advise the Staff Chairperson of any material changes in plans, facts, or circumstances regarding the transaction, and any material change in information provided or required to be provided to the Committee under § 800.404. Unless the Committee rejects the declaration on the basis of such material changes in accordance with § 800.406(a)(2)(i), such changes shall become part of the declaration filed by such persons under this section, and the certification required under § 800.405(d) shall apply to such changes.
(e) Parties to a transaction that have filed with the Committee a written notice regarding a transaction under § 800.501 or § 802.501 or a declaration under § 802.401 may not submit to the Committee a declaration regarding the same transaction or a substantially similar transaction without the written approval of the Staff Chairperson.
§ 800.404
Contents of declarations.
(a) The party or parties submitting a declaration of a transaction under § 800.403 shall provide the information set out in this section, which must be accurate and complete with respect to all parties and to the transaction. (See also paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.)
(b) If fewer than all parties to a transaction submit a declaration, the Committee may, at its discretion, request that the parties to the transaction file a written notice of the transaction under § 800.501, if the Staff Chairperson determines that the information provided by the submitting party or parties in the declaration is insufficient for the Committee to assess the transaction.
(c) Subject to paragraph (e) of this section, a declaration submitted under § 800.403 shall describe or provide, as applicable:
(1) The name of the foreign person(s) and U.S. business(es) that are parties to, or, in applicable cases, the subject of, the transaction, as well as the
name, telephone number, and email address of the primary point of contact for each party.
(2) The following information regarding the transaction in question:
(i) A brief description of the rationale for and nature of the transaction, including its structure (
e.g.,
share purchase, merger, asset purchase);
(ii) The percentage of voting interest acquired and the resulting aggregate voting interest held by the foreign person and its affiliates;
(iii) The percentage of economic interest acquired and the resulting aggregate economic interest held by the foreign person and its affiliates;
(iv) Whether the U.S. business has multiple classes of ownership, and if so, the pre- and post-transaction share ownership of the foreign person(s) in the U.S. business broken out by class;
(v) The total transaction value in U.S. dollars;
(vi) The status of the transaction, including the actual or expected completion date of the transaction;
(vii) All sources of financing for the transaction; and
(viii) A copy of the definitive documentation of the transaction, or if none exists, the document establishing the material terms of the transaction.
(3) The following:
(i) A statement as to whether a party to the transaction is stipulating that the transaction is a covered transaction and a description of the basis for the stipulation; and
(ii) A statement as to whether a party to the transaction is stipulating that the transaction is a foreign government-controlled transaction and a description of the basis for the stipulation.
(4) A statement as to whether the foreign person will acquire any of the following with respect to the U.S. business:
(i) Access to any material nonpublic technical information in the possession of the U.S. business, and if so, a brief explanation of the access and type of information;
(ii) Membership, observer rights, or nomination rights as set forth in § 800.211(b)(2), and if so, a statement as to the composition of the board or other body both before and after the completion date of the transaction;
(iii) Any involvement, other than through voting of shares, in substantive decisionmaking of the U.S. business regarding covered investment critical infrastructure, critical technologies, or sensitive personal data as set forth in § 800.211(b)(3), and if any, a statement as to the involvement in such substantive decisionmaking; or
(iv) Any rights that could result in the foreign person acquiring control of the U.S. business and, if any, a brief explanation of these rights.
(5) The following information regarding the U.S. business:
(i) Website address;
(ii) Principal place of business;
(iii) Place of incorporation or organization; and
(iv) A list of the addresses or geographic coordinates (to at least the fourth decimal) of all locations of the U.S. business, including the U.S. business' headquarters, facilities, and operating locations.
(6) With respect to the U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction and any entity of which that U.S. business is a parent, a brief summary of their respective business activities, as, for example, set forth in annual reports, and the product or service categories of each, including the applicable six-digit North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) Codes, Commercial and Government Entity Code (CAGE Code) assigned by the Department of Defense, and any applicable Dun and Bradstreet identification (DUNS) numbers assigned to the U.S. business, and an explanation of how the entity is engaged in interstate commerce in the United States, where applicable.
(7) A statement as to whether the U.S. business produces, designs, tests, manufactures, fabricates, or develops one or more critical technologies.
(8) A statement as to whether the U.S. business performs any of the functions with respect to covered investment critical infrastructure as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part.
(9) A statement as to whether the U.S. business directly or indirectly
maintains or collects sensitive personal data of U.S. citizens, directly or indirectly has collected or maintained sensitive personal data in the 12 months prior to any of the applicable events specified in § 800.241(a)(1)(i)(B), or has a demonstrated business objective to collect such data in the future.
(10) A statement as to whether the U.S. business has any contracts (including any subcontracts, if known) that are currently in effect or were in effect within the past three years with any U.S. Government agency or component, or in the past 10 years if the contract included access to personally identifiable information of U.S. Government personnel. If so, provide an annex listing such contracts, including the name of the U.S. Government agency or component, the delivery order number or contract number, the primary contractor (if the U.S. business is a subcontractor), the start date, and the estimated completion date.
(11) A statement as to whether the U.S. business has any contracts (including any subcontracts, if known) that are currently in effect or were in effect within the past five years involving information, technology, or data that is classified under Executive Order 12958, as amended.
(12) A statement as to whether the U.S. business has received any grant or other funding from the Department of Defense or the Department of Energy, or participated in or collaborated on any defense or energy program or product involving one or more critical technologies, covered investment critical infrastructure, or other critical infrastructure within the past five years.
(13) A statement as to whether the U.S. business participated in a Defense Production Act Title III Program (50 U.S.C. 4501
et seq.
) within the past seven years.
(14) A statement as to whether the U.S. business has received or placed priority rated contracts or orders under the Defense Priorities and Allocations System (DPAS) regulation (15 CFR part 700), and the level(s) of priority of such contracts or orders (“DX” or “DO”) within the past three years.
(15) The name of the ultimate parent of the foreign person.
(16) The address of the foreign person and its ultimate parent.
(17) Complete organizational charts, both pre- and post-transaction, including information that identifies the name, principal place of business, and place of incorporation or other legal organization (for entities); nationality (for individuals); and ownership percentage (expressed in terms of both voting and economic interest, if different) for each of the following:
(i) The immediate parent, the ultimate parent, and each intermediate parent, if any, of each foreign person that is a party to the transaction;
(ii) Where the ultimate parent is a private company, the ultimate owner(s) of such parent;
(iii) Where the ultimate parent is a public company, any shareholder with an interest of greater than five percent in such parent; and
(iv) The U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction, both before and after completion of the transaction.
(18) Information regarding all foreign government ownership in the foreign person's ownership structure, including nationality and percentage of ownership, as well as any rights that a foreign government holds, directly or indirectly, with respect to the foreign person.
(19) With respect to the foreign person that is party to the transaction and any of its parents, as applicable, a brief summary of their respective business activities, as, for example, set forth in annual reports.
(20) A statement as to whether any party to the transaction has been party to another transaction previously notified or submitted to the Committee, and the case number assigned by the Committee regarding such transaction(s).
(21) A statement (including relevant jurisdiction and criminal case law number or legal citation) as to whether the U.S. business, the foreign person, any parent of the foreign person, or any person of which the foreign person is a parent has been convicted in the last 10 years of a crime in any jurisdiction.
(22) If applicable, a description (which may group similar items into
general product categories) of any critical technology that the U.S. business produces, designs, tests, manufactures, fabricates, or develops, and a list of any relevant Export Control Classification Numbers (ECCNs) under the EAR and the USML categories under the ITAR, and, if applicable, identify whether there are specially designed and prepared nuclear equipment, parts and components, materials, software, and technology covered by 10 CFR part 810; nuclear facilities, equipment, and materials covered by 10 CFR part 110; or select agents and toxins covered by 7 CFR part 331, 9 CFR part 121, or 42 CFR part 73.
(23) If applicable, a statement as to which functions set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part that the U.S. business performs with respect to covered investment critical infrastructure, including a description of such functions and the applicable covered investment critical infrastructure.
(24) If applicable:
(i) The category or categories of data, as specified at § 800.241, that the U.S. business directly or indirectly maintains or collects;
(ii) For each applicable category of data specified in § 800.241, individually and in the aggregate, the approximate number of total unique persons from whom:
(A) The data is currently maintained, and
(B) The data has been maintained or collected at any point during the 12 months prior to any of the applicable events specified in § 800.241(a)(1)(i)(B);
(iii) Whether the U.S. business has a demonstrated business objective to maintain or collect data described in § 800.241(a)(1)(ii) of greater than one million individuals and such data is an integrated part of the U.S. business's primary products or services.
(iv) Whether the U.S. business targets or tailors products or services to any U.S. executive branch agency or military department with intelligence, national security, or homeland security responsibilities, or to personnel or contractors thereof.
(d) Each party submitting a declaration shall provide a certification of the information contained in the declaration consistent with § 800.204. A sample certification may be found on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
(e) A party that offers a stipulation under paragraph (c)(3) of this section acknowledges that the Committee and the President are entitled to rely on such stipulation in determining whether the transaction is a covered investment, a covered control transaction, or a foreign government-controlled transaction for the purposes of section 721 and all authorities thereunder, and waives the right to challenge any such determination. Neither the Committee nor the President is bound by any such stipulation, nor does any such stipulation limit the ability of the Committee or the President to act on any authority provided under section 721 with respect to any covered transaction.
§ 800.405
Beginning of 30-day assessment period.
(a) Upon receipt of a declaration submitted under § 800.403, the Staff Chairperson shall promptly inspect the declaration and shall promptly notify in writing all parties to a transaction that have submitted a declaration that:
(1) The Staff Chairperson has accepted the declaration and circulated the declaration to the Committee, and the date on which the assessment described in paragraph (b) of this section begins; or
(2) The Staff Chairperson has determined not to accept the declaration and circulate the declaration to the Committee because the declaration is incomplete, and an explanation of the material respects in which the declaration is incomplete.
(b) A 30-day period for assessment of a covered transaction that is the subject of a declaration shall commence on the date on which the declaration is received by the Committee from the Staff Chairperson. Such period shall end no later than the thirtieth day after it has commenced, or if the thirtieth day is not a business day, no later than the next business day after the thirtieth day.
(c) During the 30-day assessment period, the Staff Chairperson may invite the parties to a covered transaction to attend a meeting with the Committee
staff to discuss and clarify issues pertaining to the transaction.
(d) If the Committee notifies the parties to a transaction that have submitted a declaration under § 800.403 that the Committee intends to conclude all action under section 721 with respect to that transaction, each party that has submitted additional information subsequent to the original declaration shall file a certification as described in § 800.204. A sample certification may be found on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
(e) If a party fails to provide the certification required under paragraph (d) of this section, the Committee may, at its discretion, take any of the actions under § 800.407.
§ 800.406
Rejection, disposition, or withdrawal of declarations.
(a) The Committee, acting through the Staff Chairperson, may:
(1) Reject any declaration that does not comply with § 800.404 and so inform the parties promptly in writing;
(2) Reject any declaration at any time, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if, after the declaration has been submitted and before the Committee has taken one of the actions specified in § 800.407:
(i) There is a material change in the covered transaction as to which a declaration has been submitted; or
(ii) Information comes to light that contradicts material information provided in the declaration by the party (or parties); or
(3) Reject any declaration at any time after the declaration has been submitted, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if the party (or parties) that submitted the declaration does not provide follow-up information requested by the Staff Chairperson within two business days of the request, or within a longer time frame if the party (or parties) so request in writing and the Staff Chairperson grants that request in writing.
(b) The Staff Chairperson shall notify the party (or parties) that submitted a declaration when the Committee has found that the transaction that is the subject of a declaration is not a covered transaction.
(c) Parties to a transaction that have submitted a declaration under § 800.403 may request in writing, at any time prior to the Committee taking action under § 800.407, that such declaration be withdrawn. Such request shall be directed to the Staff Chairperson and shall state the reasons why the request is being made and state whether the transaction that is the subject of the declaration is being fully and permanently abandoned. An official of the Department of the Treasury will promptly advise the parties to the transaction in writing of the Committee's decision.
(d) The Committee may not request or recommend that a declaration be withdrawn and refiled, except to permit parties to a covered transaction to correct material errors or omissions, or describe material changes to the transaction, in the declaration submitted with respect to that covered transaction.
(e) A party (or parties) may not submit more than one declaration for the same or a substantially similar transaction without approval from the Staff Chairperson.

# Note 1 to § 800.406:
See § 800.403(e) regarding the prohibition on submitting a declaration regarding the same transaction or a substantially similar transaction for which a written notice has been filed without the approval of the Staff Chairperson.
§ 800.407
Committee actions.
(a) Upon receiving a declaration submitted under § 800.403 with respect to a covered transaction, the Committee may, at the discretion of the Committee:
(1) If the Committee has reason to believe that the transaction may raise national security considerations, request that the parties to the transaction file a written notice under subpart E;
(2) Inform the parties to the transaction that the Committee is not able to conclude action under section 721 with respect to the transaction on the basis of the declaration and that the parties may file a written notice under subpart E to seek written notification from the Committee that the Committee has concluded all action under
section 721 with respect to the transaction;
(3) Initiate a unilateral review of the transaction under § 800.501(c); or
(4) Notify the parties in writing that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 with respect to the transaction.
(b) The Committee shall take action under paragraph (a) of this section within the time period set forth in § 800.405(b).

# Subpart E—Notices
§ 800.501
Procedures for notices.
(a) Except as otherwise prohibited under paragraph (j) of this section, a party or parties to a proposed or completed transaction may file a voluntary notice of the transaction with the Committee. Voluntary notice to the Committee is filed by sending an electronic copy of the notice that includes, in English, the information set out in § 800.502, including the certification required under paragraph (l) of that section, and paying the fee required under subpart K of this part. For electronic submission instructions, see the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
(b)(1) If the Committee determines that a transaction for which no voluntary notice or declaration has been submitted under this part, and with respect to which the Committee has not informed the parties in writing that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721, may be a covered transaction and may raise national security considerations, the Staff Chairperson, acting on the recommendation of the Committee, may request the parties to the transaction or other persons to provide to the Committee information necessary to determine whether the transaction is a covered transaction, whether the transaction may raise national security considerations, or, as appropriate, whether the transaction is a transaction for which a submission is or was required under § 800.401.
(2) If the Committee determines that a transaction referred to under paragraph (b)(1) of this section is a covered transaction and may raise national security considerations, the Staff Chairperson, acting on the recommendation of the Committee, may request the parties to file a notice of such covered transaction under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) With respect to any transaction:
(1) Any member of the Committee, or his or her designee at or above the Under Secretary or equivalent level, may, subject to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, file an agency notice to the Committee through the Staff Chairperson regarding a transaction if:
(i) That member has reason to believe that the transaction is a covered transaction and may raise national security considerations and:
(A) The Committee has not informed the parties to such transaction in writing that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 with respect to such transaction; and
(B) The President has not announced a decision not to exercise the President's authority under section 721(d) with respect to such transaction; or
(ii) The transaction is a covered transaction and:
(A) The Committee has informed the parties to such transaction in writing that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 with respect to such transaction or determined that such transaction is not a covered transaction, or the President has announced a decision not to exercise the President's authority under section 721(d) with respect to such transaction; and
(B) Either:
(
1
) A party to such transaction submitted false or misleading material information to the Committee in connection with the Committee's consideration of such transaction or omitted material information, including material documents, from information submitted to the Committee; or
(
2
) A party to or the entity resulting from consummation of such transaction materially breaches (or, if the review or investigation of such transaction was initiated under section 721 before August 13, 2018, intentionally materially breaches) a mitigation agreement or condition described in
section 721(l)(3)(A), such breach is certified to the Committee by the lead department or agency monitoring and enforcing such agreement or condition as a material breach (or, if the review or investigation of such transaction was initiated under section 721 before August 13, 2018, an intentional material breach), and the Committee determines that there are no other adequate and appropriate remedies or enforcement tools available to address such breach.
(2)(i) That is an investment where a foreign person is not an excepted investor due to the application of § 800.219(d), any member of the Committee, or his or her designee at or above the Under Secretary or equivalent level, may file an agency notice to the Committee through the Staff Chairperson regarding such investment if:
(A) That member has reason to believe that the transaction is a covered transaction and may raise national security considerations;
(B) The Committee has not informed the parties to such transaction in writing that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 with respect to such transaction; and
(C) The President has not announced a decision not to exercise the President's authority under section 721(d) with respect to such transaction.
(ii) No notice filed under this paragraph (c)(2) shall be made with respect to a transaction more than one year after the completion date of the transaction, unless the Chairperson of the Committee determines, in consultation with other members of the Committee, that because the foreign person no longer meets all the criteria set forth in § 800.219(a)(1) or (2), (a)(3)(i) through (iii), or (c)(1)(i) through (iii), the transaction may threaten to impair the national security of the United States, and in no event shall an agency notice under this paragraph be made with respect to such a transaction more than three years after the completion date of the transaction.
(d) Notices filed under paragraph (c) of this section are deemed accepted upon their receipt by the Staff Chairperson. No agency notice under paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be made with respect to a transaction more than three years after the completion date of the transaction, unless the Chairperson of the Committee, in consultation with other members of the Committee, files such an agency notice.
(e) No communications other than those described in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section shall constitute the filing or submitting of a notice for purposes of section 721.
(f) Upon receipt of the electronic copy of a notice filed under paragraph (a) of this section, including the certification required by § 800.502(l), and payment of the fee required under subpart K of this part, the Staff Chairperson shall promptly inspect such notice for completeness.
(g) Parties to a transaction are encouraged to consult with the Committee in advance of filing a notice and, in appropriate cases, to file with the Committee a draft notice or other appropriate documents to aid the Committee's understanding of the transaction and to provide an opportunity for the Committee to request additional information to be included in the notice. Any such pre-notice consultation should take place, or any draft notice should be provided, at least five business days before the filing of a voluntary notice. All information and documentary material made available to the Committee under this paragraph shall be considered to have been filed with the President or the President's designee for purposes of section 721(c) and § 800.802.
(h) Information and other documentary material provided by the parties to the Committee after the filing of a voluntary notice under this section shall be part of the notice, and shall be subject to the final certification required under § 800.502(m).
(i) For any voluntarily submitted draft or formal written notice that includes a stipulation under section § 800.502(o) that a transaction is a covered transaction, the Committee shall provide comments on the draft or formal written notice or accept the formal written notice of a covered transaction not later than the date that is 10 business days after the date of submission of the draft or formal written notice.
(j) No party to a transaction may file a notice under paragraph (a) of this section if the transaction has been the subject of a declaration submitted under subpart D and the Committee has not yet taken action with respect to the transaction under § 800.407.
[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 23740, Apr. 29, 2020; 89 FR 93184, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 800.502
Contents of voluntary notices.
(a) If the parties to a transaction file a voluntary notice, they shall provide in detail the information set out in this section, which must be accurate and complete with respect to all parties and to the transaction. (See also paragraph (l) of this section and § 800.204 regarding certification requirements.)
(b) If fewer than all parties to a transaction file a voluntary notice, for example in the case of a hostile takeover, each notifying party shall provide the information set out in this section with respect to itself and, to the extent known or reasonably available to it, with respect to each non-notifying party.
(c) A voluntary notice filed under § 800.501 shall describe or provide, as applicable:
(1) The following information regarding the transaction in question:
(i) A summary setting forth the essentials of the transaction, including a statement of the purpose of the transaction, and its scope, both within and outside of the United States;
(ii) The nature of the transaction, for example, whether the acquisition is by merger, consolidation, the purchase of voting interest, or otherwise;
(iii) The name, United States address (if any), website address (if any), nationality (for individuals) or place of incorporation or other legal organization (for entities), and address of the principal place of business of each foreign person that is a party to the transaction;
(iv) The name, address, website address (if any), principal place of business, and place of incorporation or other legal organization of the U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction;
(v) The name, address, and nationality (for individuals) or place of incorporation or other legal organization (for entities) of:
(A) The immediate parent, the ultimate parent, and each intermediate parent, if any, of the foreign person that is a party to the transaction;
(B) Where the ultimate parent is a private company, the ultimate owner(s) of such parent; and
(C) Where the ultimate parent is a public company, any shareholder with an interest of greater than five percent in such parent;
(vi) The name, address, website address (if any), and nationality (for individuals) or place of incorporation or other legal organization (for entities) of each person that will control the U.S. business being acquired;
(vii) The actual or expected completion date of the transaction;
(viii)(A) The value of the transaction in U.S. dollars, as determined under § 800.1103, and the parties' assessment of the applicable fee due under § 800.1101, including an explanation of the methodology used to determine such valuation and applicable fee; and
(B) If different than the value of the transaction provided in paragraph (c)(1)(viii)(A) of this section, a good faith approximation of the net value of the interest acquired in the U.S. business in U.S. dollars, as of the date of the notice.
(ix) The name of any and all financial institutions involved in the transaction, including as advisors, underwriters, or sources of financing for the transaction;
(x) A copy of any partnership agreements, integration agreements, or other side agreements relating to the transaction;
(xi) A statement as to whether the foreign person will acquire any of the following in the U.S. business:
(A) Access to any material nonpublic technical information in the possession of the U.S. business, and if so, a brief explanation of the type of access and type of information;
(B) Membership, observer rights, or nomination rights as set forth in § 800.211(b)(2), and if so, a description of such rights and a statement as to the composition of the board or other body
both before and after the completion date of the transaction, as well as a copy of the document(s) setting forth the post-acquisition governance provisions (
e.g.,
quorum requirements, special rights) for the board of directors or other body;
(C) Any involvement, other than through voting of shares, in substantive decisionmaking of the U.S. business regarding covered investment critical infrastructure, critical technologies, or sensitive personal data as set forth in § 800.211(b)(3), and if so, a brief explanation of the nature and extent of involvement;
(2) With respect to a transaction structured as an acquisition of assets of a U.S. business, a detailed description of the assets of the U.S. business being acquired, including the approximate value of those assets in U.S. dollars;
(3) With respect to the U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction and any entity of which that U.S. business is a parent (unless that entity is excluded from the scope of the transaction):
(i) Their respective business activities, as, for example, set forth in annual reports, and the product or service categories of each, including an estimate of U.S. market share for such product or service categories and the methodology used to determine market share, a list of direct competitors for those primary product or service categories, and their NAICS Code, if any, and an explanation of how the entity is engaged in interstate commerce in the United States, where applicable;
(ii) The street address (and mailing address, if different) within the United States and website address (if any) of each facility that is manufacturing classified or unclassified products or producing services described in paragraph (c)(3)(v) of this section, and their respective CAGE Codes and DUNS number;
(iii) Each contract (identified by agency and number) that is currently in effect or was in effect within the past five years with any agency of the U.S. Government involving any information, technology, or data that is classified under Executive Order 12958, as amended, its estimated final completion date, and the name, office, and telephone number of the contracting official;
(iv) Any other contract (identified by agency and number) that is currently in effect or was in effect within the past three years with any U.S. Government agency or component with national defense, homeland security, or other national security responsibilities, including law enforcement responsibility as it relates to defense, homeland security, or national security, its estimated final completion date, and the name, office, and telephone number of the contracting official;
(v) Any products or services (including research and development):
(A) That it supplies, directly or indirectly, to any agency of the U.S. Government, including as a prime contractor or first tier subcontractor, a supplier to any such prime contractor or subcontractor, or, if known by the parties filing the notice, a subcontractor at any tier; and
(B) If known by the parties filing the notice, for which it is a single qualified source (
i.e.,
other acceptable suppliers are readily available to be so qualified) or a sole source (
i.e.,
no other supplier has needed technology, equipment, and manufacturing process capabilities) for any such agencies and whether there are other suppliers in the market that are available to be so qualified;
(vi) Any products or services (including research and development) that:
(A) It supplies to third parties and it knows are rebranded by the purchaser or incorporated into the products of another entity, and the names or brands under which such rebranded products or services are sold; and
(B) In the case of services, it provides on behalf of, or under the name of, another entity, and the name of any such entities;
(vii) For the prior three years—
(A) A list of priority rated contracts or orders under DPAS) regulation that the U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction has received and the level of priority of such contracts or orders (“DX” or “DO”); and
(B) A list of such priority rated contracts or orders that the U.S. business has placed with other entities and the
level of priority of such contracts or orders, and the acquiring party's plan to ensure that any new entity formed at the completion of the notified transaction (or the U.S. business, if no new entity is formed) complies with the DPAS regulations;
(viii) A description and copy of the cyber security plan, if any, that will be used to protect against cyber attacks on the operation, design, and development of the U.S. business's services, networks, systems, data storage (including the collection or maintenance of sensitive personal data), and facilities;
(ix) A description of whether the U.S. business performs any of the functions with respect to covered investment critical infrastructure, if any, as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part. This statement shall include a description of such functions, including the applicable covered investment critical infrastructure;
(x)(A) A description of whether the U.S. business produces, designs, tests, manufactures, fabricates, or develops one or more:
(
1
) Items that are subject to the EAR and, if so, a description (which may group similar items into general product categories) of the items and a list of the relevant commodity classifications set forth on the CCL (
i.e.,
ECCNs or EAR99 designation);
(
2
) Defense articles and defense services, and related technical data covered by the USML in the ITAR, and, if so, the category of the USML; articles and services for which commodity jurisdiction requests (22 CFR 120.4) are pending; and articles and services (including those under development) that may be designated or determined in the future to be defense articles or defense services under 22 CFR 120.3;
(
3
) Specially designed and prepared nuclear equipment, parts and components, materials, software, and technology covered by 10 CFR part 810;
(
4
) Nuclear facilities, equipment, and material covered by 10 CFR part 110;
(
5
) Select Agents and Toxins (7 CFR part 331, 9 CFR part 121, and 42 CFR part 73); or
(
6
) Emerging and foundational technologies controlled under section 1758 of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (codified at 50 U.S.C. 4817);
(B) A description of whether the U.S. business otherwise trades in any item described in paragraphs (c)(3)(x)(A)(
1
) through (
6
) of this section, to the extent not addressed in the voluntary notice in response to paragraph (c)(3)(x)(A) of this section; and
(C) For any item described in paragraphs (c)(3)(x)(A)(
1
) through (
6
) of this section for which there is no completed Commodity Classification Automated Tracking System or Commodity Jurisdiction determination, the voluntary notice shall include a brief statement as to how the parties evaluated the item (
e.g.,
self-classification by individuals with technical knowledge at the U.S. business, classification information provided by the manufacturer, classification provided by outside counsel or third party consultant,
etc.
);
(xi) A description of whether the U.S. business directly or indirectly maintains or collects sensitive personal data of U.S. citizens, directly or indirectly has collected or maintained sensitive personal data in the 12 months prior to any of the applicable events specified in § 800.241(a)(1)(i)(B), or has a demonstrated business objective to maintain or collect such data in the future including:
(A) The category or categories of data specified in § 800.241 that the U.S. business directly or indirectly maintains or collects or intends to maintain or collect;
(B) For each applicable category of data specified in § 800.241, individually and in the aggregate, the approximate number of total unique persons from whom:
(
1
) The data is currently maintained; and
(
2
) The data has been maintained or collected at any point during the 12 months prior to any of the applicable events specified in § 800.241(a)(1)(i)(B);
(C) Whether the U.S. business has a demonstrated business objective to maintain or collect data described in § 800.241(a)(1)(ii) of greater than one million individuals and such data is an integrated part of the U.S. business's primary products or services, and if so, please provide a brief explanation;
(D) A description of how the U.S. business targets or tailors its products or services to any U.S. executive branch agency or military department with intelligence, national security, or homeland security responsibilities, or personnel or contractors thereof;
(E) The commercial rationale of the U.S. business for maintaining or collecting such sensitive personal data and a description of how the U.S. business uses and protects such sensitive personal data, including a description of how decisions regarding the use of sensitive personal data are made, and by whom;
(F) A description of the U.S. business's policies and practices regarding the sale, license, or transfer of, or grant of access to, sensitive personal data to third parties, including a copy of any notice provided to customers regarding the use and transfer of sensitive personal data;
(G) A description of the U.S. business's policies and practices regarding retention of sensitive personal data; and
(H) Any plans by the foreign party to the transaction to alter any of the foregoing;
(4) Whether the U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction:
(i) Possesses any licenses, permits, or other authorizations other than those under the regulatory authorities listed in paragraph (c)(3)(x)(A) of this section that have been granted by an agency of the U.S. Government (if applicable, identification of the relevant licenses shall be provided); or
(ii) Has technology that has military applications (if so, an identification of such technology and a description of such military applications shall be included);
(5) With respect to the foreign person engaged in the transaction and its parents:
(i) The business or businesses of the foreign person and its ultimate parent, as such businesses are described, for example, in annual reports, and the CAGE codes, NAICS codes, and DUNS numbers, if any, for such businesses;
(ii) The plans of the foreign person for the U.S. business with respect to:
(A) Reducing, eliminating, or selling research and development facilities;
(B) Changing product quality;
(C) Shutting down or moving outside of the United States facilities that are within the United States;
(D) Consolidating or selling product lines or technology;
(E) Modifying or terminating contracts referred to in paragraphs (c)(3)(iii) and (iv) of this section; or
(F) Eliminating domestic supply by selling products solely to non-domestic markets;
(iii) Whether the foreign person is controlled by or acting on behalf of a foreign government, including as an agent or representative, or in some similar capacity, and if so, the identity of the foreign government;
(iv) Whether a foreign government or a person controlled by or acting on behalf of a foreign government:
(A) Has or controls ownership interests, including contingent equity interest, of the acquiring foreign person or any parent of the acquiring foreign person, and if so, the nature and amount of any such interests, and with regard to contingent equity interest, the terms and timing of conversion;
(B) Has the right or power to appoint any of the principal officers or the members of the board of directors (including other persons who perform the duties usually associated with such titles) of the foreign person that is a party to the transaction or any parent of that foreign person;
(C) Holds any other contingent interest (for example, such as might arise from a lending transaction) in the foreign acquiring party and, if so, the rights that are covered by this contingent interest, and the manner in which they would be enforced; or
(D) Has any other affirmative or negative rights or powers that could be relevant to the Committee's determination of whether the notified transaction is a foreign government-controlled transaction, and if there are any such rights or powers, their source (for example, a “golden share,” shareholders agreement, contract, statute, or regulation) and the mechanics of their operation;
(v) Any formal or informal arrangements among foreign persons that hold an ownership interest in any foreign
person that is a party to the transaction or between such foreign person and other foreign persons to act in concert on particular matters affecting the U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction, and provide a copy of any documents that establish those rights or describe those arrangements;
(vi) For each member of the board of directors or equivalent governing body (including external directors and other persons who perform the duties usually associated with such titles) and officers (including president, senior vice president, executive vice president, and other persons who perform duties normally associated with such titles) of the acquiring foreign person engaged in the transaction and its immediate, intermediate, and ultimate parents, and for any individual having an ownership interest of five percent or more in the acquiring foreign person engaged in the transaction and in the foreign person's ultimate parent, the following information:
(A) A curriculum vitae or similar professional synopsis, provided as part of the main notice, and
(B) The following “personal identifier information,” which, for privacy reasons, and to ensure limited distribution, shall be set forth in a separate document, not in the main notice:
(
1
) Full name (last, first, middle name);
(
2
) All other names and aliases used;
(
3
) Business address;
(
4
) Country and city of residence;
(
5
) Date of birth, in the format MM/DD/YYYY;
(
6
) Place of birth;
(
7
) U.S. Social Security number (where applicable);
(
8
) National identity number, including nationality, date and place of issuance, and expiration date (where applicable);
(
9
) U.S. or foreign passport number (if more than one, all must be fully disclosed), nationality, date and place of issuance, and expiration date and, if a U.S. visa holder, the visa type and number, date and place of issuance, and expiration date; and
(
10
) Dates and nature of foreign government and foreign military service (where applicable), other than military service at a rank below the top two non-commissioned ranks of the relevant foreign country; and
(vii) The following “business identifier information” for the immediate, intermediate, and ultimate parents of the foreign person engaged in the transaction, including their main offices and branches:
(A) Business name, including all names under which the business is known to be or has been doing business;
(B) Business address;
(C) Business phone number, website address, and email address; and
(D) Employer identification number or other domestic tax or corporate identification number.
(d)(1) The voluntary notice shall list any filings with, or reports to, agencies of the U.S. Government that have been or will be made with respect to the transaction prior to its completion, indicating the agencies concerned, the nature of the filing or report, the date on which it was filed or the estimated date by which it will be filed, and a relevant contact point and/or telephone number within the agency, if known.
(2) Example: Corporation A, a foreign person, intends to acquire Corporation X, which is wholly owned and controlled by a U.S. national and which has a Facility Security Clearance under the Department of Defense Industrial Security Program. See Department of Defense, “Industrial Security Regulation,” DOD 5220.22-R, and “Industrial Security Manual for Safeguarding Classified Information,” DOD 5220.22-M. Corporation X accordingly files a revised Form DD SF-328, and enters into discussions with the Defense Security Service about effectively insulating its facilities from the foreign person. Corporation X may also have made filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the Department of Commerce, the Department of State, or other federal departments and agencies. This paragraph (d) requires that certain specific information about these filings be reported to the Committee in a voluntary notice.
(e) In the case of the establishment of a joint venture in which one or more of
the parties is contributing a U.S. business, information for the voluntary notice shall be prepared on the assumption that the foreign person that is party to the joint venture has made an acquisition of the existing U.S. business that the other party to the joint venture is contributing or transferring to the joint venture. The voluntary notice shall describe the name and address of the joint venture and the entities that established, or are establishing, the joint venture.
(f) In the case of the acquisition of some but not all of the assets of an entity, paragraph (c) of this section requires submission of the specified information only with respect to the assets of the entity that have been or are proposed to be acquired.
(g) Persons filing a voluntary notice shall, with respect to the foreign person that is a party to the transaction, its immediate parent, the U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction, and each entity of which the foreign person is a parent, append to the voluntary notice the most recent annual report of each such entity, in English. Separate reports are not required for any entity whose financial results are included within the consolidated financial results stated in the annual report of any parent of any such entity, unless the transaction involves the acquisition of a U.S. business whose parent is not being acquired, in which case the notice shall include the most recent audited financial statement of the U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction. If a U.S. business does not prepare an annual report and its financial results are not included within the consolidated financial results stated in the annual report of a parent, the filing shall include, if available, the entity's most recent audited financial statement (or, if an audited financial statement is not available, the unaudited financial statement).
(h) Persons filing a voluntary notice shall, during the time that the matter is pending before the Committee or the President, promptly advise the Staff Chairperson of any material changes in plans, facts and circumstances addressed in the notice, and information provided or required to be provided to the Committee under this section, and shall file amendments to the notice to reflect such material changes. Such amendments shall become part of the notice filed by such persons under § 800.501, and the certifications required under paragraphs (l) and (m) of this section shall apply to such amendments.
(i) Persons filing a voluntary notice shall include a copy of the most recent asset or stock purchase agreement or other document establishing the agreed terms of the transaction.
(j) Persons filing a voluntary notice shall include:
(1) Complete organizational charts, both pre- and post-transaction, including information that identifies the name, principal place of business, and place of incorporation or other legal organization (for entities); nationality (for individuals); and ownership percentage (expressed in terms of both voting and economic interest, if different) for each of the following:
(i) The immediate parent, the ultimate parent, and each intermediate parent, if any, of each foreign person that is a party to the transaction;
(ii) Where the ultimate parent is a private company, the ultimate owner(s) of such parent;
(iii) Where the ultimate parent is a public company, any shareholder with an interest of greater than five percent in such parent; and
(iv) The U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction, both before and after completion of the transaction; and
(2) The opinion of the person regarding whether:
(i) It is a foreign person;
(ii) It is controlled by a foreign government;
(iii) A foreign government holds a substantial interest in the foreign person that is party to the transaction; and
(iv) The transaction has resulted or could result in a covered control transaction or a covered investment, and the reasons for its view, focusing in particular on any powers (for example, by virtue of a shareholders agreement, contract, statute, or regulation) that the foreign person will have with regard to the U.S. business, and how those powers can or will be exercised,
or any other access, rights, or involvement the foreign person will have in a U.S. business with respect to critical technologies, covered investment critical infrastructure, or sensitive personal data.
(k) Persons filing a voluntary notice shall include information as to whether:
(1) Any party to the transaction is, or has been, a party to a mitigation agreement entered into or condition imposed under section 721, and if so, shall specify the date and purpose of such agreement or condition and the U.S. Government signatories; and
(2) Any party to the transaction (including such party's parents, subsidiaries, or entities under common control with the party) has been a party to a transaction previously notified to the Committee.
(l) Each party filing a voluntary notice shall provide a certification of the notice consistent with § 800.204. A sample certification may be found on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
(m) At the conclusion of a review or investigation, each party that has filed additional information subsequent to the original notice shall file a final certification. (See § 800.204.) A sample certification may be found at the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
(n) Parties filing a voluntary notice shall include with the notice a list identifying each document provided as part of the notice, including all documents provided as attachments or exhibits to the narrative response.
(o) A party filing a voluntary notice may stipulate that the transaction is a covered transaction and, if the party stipulates that the transaction is a covered transaction, that the transaction is a foreign government-controlled transaction. A stipulation offered by any party under this section must be accompanied by a detailed description of the basis for the stipulation. The required description of the basis shall include discussion of all relevant information responsive to paragraphs (c)(5)(iii) through (v) of this section. A party that offers such a stipulation acknowledges that the Committee and the President are entitled to rely on such stipulation in determining whether the transaction is a covered transaction, a foreign government-controlled transaction, and/or subject to mandatory declaration or notice for the purposes of section 721 and all authorities thereunder, and waives the right to challenge any such determination. Neither the Committee nor the President is bound by any such stipulation, nor does any such stipulation limit the ability of the Committee or the President to act on any authority provided under section 721 with respect to any covered transaction.
[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020; 85 FR 8747, Feb. 18, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 23740, Apr. 29, 2020]
§ 800.503
Beginning of 45-day review period.
(a) The Staff Chairperson shall accept a voluntary notice the next business day after the Staff Chairperson has:
(1) Determined that the notice complies with § 800.502;
(2) Confirmed that the applicable fee required under subpart K of this part has been received by the Department of the Treasury, or waived; and
(3) Disseminated the notice to all members of the Committee.
(b) A 45-day period for review of a transaction shall commence on the date on which the voluntary notice has been accepted, agency notice has been received by the Staff Chairperson, or the Chairperson of the Committee has requested a notice under § 800.501(b). Such review shall end no later than the forty-fifth day after it has commenced, or if the forty-fifth day is not a business day, no later than the next business day after the forty-fifth day.
(c) The Staff Chairperson shall promptly advise in writing all parties to a transaction that have filed a voluntary notice of:
(1) The acceptance of the notice;
(2) The date on which the review begins; and
(3) The designation of any lead agency or agencies.
(d) Within two business days after receipt of an agency notice by the Staff Chairperson, the Staff Chairperson shall send written advice of such notice to the parties to the transaction that is
subject to the notice. Such written advice shall identify the date on which the review began.
(e) The Staff Chairperson shall promptly circulate to all Committee members any draft pre-filing notice, any agency notice, any complete notice, and any subsequent information filed by the parties.
[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 23740, Apr. 29, 2020]
§ 800.504
Deferral, rejection, or disposition of certain voluntary notices.
(a) The Committee, acting through the Staff Chairperson, may:
(1) Reject any voluntary notice that does not comply with § 800.501 or § 800.502 and so inform the parties promptly in writing;
(2) Reject any voluntary notice at any time, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if, after the notice has been submitted and before action by the Committee or the President has been concluded:
(i) There is a material change in the transaction as to which notification has been made; or
(ii) Information comes to light that contradicts material information provided in the notice by the parties;
(3) Reject any voluntary notice at any time upon determining that the filing fee paid by the parties was insufficient under subpart K of this part, subject to § 800.1108;
(4) Reject any voluntary notice at any time after the notice has been accepted, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if the party or parties that have submitted the voluntary notice do not provide follow-up information requested by the Staff Chairperson within three business days of the request, or within a longer time frame if the parties so request in writing and the Staff Chairperson grants that request in writing;
(5) Reject any voluntary notice before the conclusion of a review or investigation, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if one of the parties submitting the voluntary notice has not submitted the final certification required by § 800.502(m); or
(6) Reject any voluntary notice at any time after the notice has been accepted, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if the Committee has proposed risk mitigation terms, including revisions to such terms, and if the Staff Chairperson has imposed a time frame for responding to such terms as set forth in paragraph (d) of this section, to the party or parties that submitted the notice, and the party or parties have failed to substantively respond to such terms within the time frame specified.
(b) Notwithstanding the authority of the Staff Chairperson under paragraph (a) of this section to reject an incomplete notice, the Staff Chairperson may defer acceptance of the notice, and the beginning of the review period specified by § 800.503, to obtain any information required under this section that has not been submitted by the notifying party or parties or other parties to the transaction. Where necessary to obtain such information, the Staff Chairperson may inform any non-notifying party or parties that notice has been filed with respect to a transaction involving the party, and request that certain information required under this section, as specified by the Staff Chairperson, be provided to the Committee within seven days after receipt of the Staff Chairperson's request.
(c) The Staff Chairperson shall notify the parties when the Committee has found that the transaction that is the subject of a voluntary notice is not a covered transaction.
(d) The Staff Chairperson may impose a time frame of no fewer than three business days for the party or parties to provide a substantive response to proposed risk mitigation terms, including revisions to such terms. The time frame may be extended if the parties so request in writing and the Staff Chairperson grants that request in writing. In determining whether to impose such a time frame, the Staff Chairperson may consider:
(1) The statutory deadline for completing an investigation under section 721(b)(2)(C)(i);
(2) The risk to the national security of the United States arising from the transaction;
(3) The party's or parties' responsiveness to the Committee;
(4) The nature of the transaction;
(5) The appropriateness of suspending, or imposing conditions on, the transaction under section 721(
l
); and
(6) Other such factors the Staff Chairperson may determine to be appropriate in connection with a specific transaction.
(e) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
The Staff Chairperson receives a joint notice from Corporation A, a foreign person, and Corporation X, a company that is owned and controlled by U.S. nationals, with respect to Corporation A's intent to purchase all of the shares of Corporation X. The joint notice does not contain any information described under § 800.502 concerning classified materials and products or services supplied to the U.S. military services. The Staff Chairperson may reject the notice or defer the start of the review period until the parties have supplied the omitted information.
(2)
Example 2.
Same facts as the first sentence of Example 1 of this section, except that the joint notice indicates that Corporation A does not intend to purchase Corporation X's Division Y, which is engaged in classified work for a U.S. Government agency. Corporations A and X notify the Committee on the 40th day of the 45-day notice period that Division Y will also be acquired by Corporation A. This fact constitutes a material change with respect to the transaction as originally notified, and the Staff Chairperson may reject the notice.
(3)
Example 3.
The Staff Chairperson receives a joint notice by Corporation A, a foreign person, and Corporation X, a U.S. business, indicating that Corporation A intends to purchase five percent of the voting securities of Corporation X. Under the particular facts and circumstances presented, the Committee concludes that Corporation A's purchase of this interest in Corporation X could not result in a covered investment in or foreign control of Corporation X. The Staff Chairperson shall advise the parties in writing that the transaction as presented is not subject to section 721.
(4)
Example 4.
The Staff Chairperson receives a voluntary notice involving the acquisition by Company A, a foreign person, of the entire interest in Company X, a U.S. business. The notice mentions the involvement of a second foreign person in the transaction, Company B, but states that Company B is merely a passive investor in the transaction. During the course of the review, the parties provide information that clarifies that Company B has the right to appoint two members of Company X's board of directors. This information contradicts the material assertion in the notice that Company B is a passive investor. The Committee may reject this notice without concluding review under section 721.
[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 23740, Apr. 29, 2020; 89 FR 93184, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 800.505
Determination of whether to undertake an investigation.
(a) After a review of a notified transaction under § 800.503, the Committee shall undertake an investigation of any transaction that it has determined to be a covered transaction if:
(1) A member of the Committee (other than a member designated as ex officio under section 721(k)) advises the Staff Chairperson that the member believes that the transaction threatens to impair the national security of the United States and that the threat has not been mitigated; or
(2) The lead agency recommends, and the Committee concurs, that an investigation be undertaken.
(b) The Committee shall also undertake, after a review of a covered transaction under § 800.503, an investigation to determine the effects on national security of any covered transaction that:
(1) Is a foreign government-controlled transaction; or
(2) Would result in control by a foreign person of critical infrastructure of or within the United States, if the Committee determines that the transaction could impair national security and such impairment has not been mitigated.
(c) The Committee shall undertake an investigation as described in paragraph (b) of this section unless the Chairperson of the Committee (or the Deputy Secretary of the Treasury) and the head of any lead agency (or his or her delegee at the deputy level or
equivalent) designated by the Chairperson determine on the basis of the review that the covered transaction will not impair the national security of the United States.
§ 800.506
Determination not to undertake an investigation.
If the Committee determines, during the review period described in § 800.503, not to undertake an investigation of a notified covered transaction, action under section 721 shall be concluded. An official at the Department of the Treasury shall promptly inform the parties to a covered transaction in writing of a determination of the Committee not to undertake an investigation and to conclude action under section 721.
§ 800.507
Commencement of investigation.
(a) If it is determined that an investigation should be undertaken, such investigation shall commence no later than the end of the review period described in § 800.503.
(b) An official of the Department of the Treasury shall promptly inform the parties to a covered transaction in writing of the commencement of an investigation.
§ 800.508
Completion or termination of investigation and report to the President.
(a) Subject to paragraph (e) of this section, the Committee shall complete an investigation no later than the forty-fifth day after the date the investigation commences, or, if the forty-fifth day is not a business day, no later than the next business day after the forty-fifth day.
(b) Upon completion or termination of any investigation, the Committee shall send a report to the President requesting the President's decision if:
(1) The Committee recommends that the President suspend or prohibit the transaction;
(2) The Committee is unable to reach a decision on whether to recommend that the President suspend or prohibit the transaction; or
(3) The Committee requests that the President make a determination with regard to the transaction.
(c) In circumstances when the Committee sends a report to the President requesting the President's decision with respect to a covered transaction, such report shall include information relevant to sections 721(d)(4)(A) and (B), and shall present the Committee's recommendation. If the Committee is unable to reach a decision to present a single recommendation to the President, the Chairperson of the Committee shall submit a report of the Committee to the President setting forth the differing views and presenting the issues for decision.
(d) Upon completion or termination of an investigation, if the Committee determines to conclude all deliberative action under section 721 with regard to a notified covered transaction without sending a report to the President, action under section 721 shall be concluded. An official at the Department of the Treasury shall promptly advise the parties to such a transaction in writing of a determination to conclude action.
(e) In extraordinary circumstances, the Chairperson may, upon a written request signed by the head of a lead agency, extend an investigation for one 15-day period. A request to extend an investigation must describe, with particularity, the extraordinary circumstances that warrant the Chairperson extending the investigation. The authority of the head of a lead agency to request the extension of an investigation may not be delegated to any person other than the deputy head (or equivalent thereof) of the lead agency. If the Chairperson extends an investigation under this paragraph with respect to a covered transaction, the Committee shall promptly notify the parties to the transaction of the extension.
(f) For purposes of paragraph (e) of this section, the term
extraordinary circumstances
means circumstances for which extending an investigation is necessary and the appropriate course of action, in the Chairperson's discretion, due to a force majeure event or to protect the national security of the United States.
§ 800.509
Withdrawal of notices.
(a) A party (or parties) to a transaction that has filed notice under § 800.501(a) may request in writing, at any time prior to conclusion of all action under section 721, that such notice be withdrawn. Such request shall be directed to the Staff Chairperson and shall state the reasons why the request is being made. Such requests will ordinarily be granted, unless otherwise determined by the Committee. An official of the Department of the Treasury will promptly advise the parties to the transaction in writing of the Committee's decision.
(b) Any request to withdraw an agency notice by the agency that filed it shall be in writing and shall be effective only upon approval by the Committee. An official of the Department of the Treasury shall advise the parties to the transaction in writing of the Committee's decision to approve the withdrawal request within two business days of the Committee's decision.
(c) In any case where a request to withdraw a notice is granted under paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) The Staff Chairperson, in consultation with the Committee, shall establish, as appropriate:
(i) A process for tracking actions that may be taken by any party to the covered transaction before a notice is refiled under § 800.501; and
(ii) Interim protections to address specific national security concerns with the covered transaction identified during the review or investigation of the covered transaction.
(2) The Staff Chairperson shall specify a time frame, as appropriate, for the parties to resubmit a notice and shall advise the parties of that time frame in writing.
(d) A notice of a transaction that is submitted under paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall be deemed a new notice for purposes of the regulations in this part, including § 800.701.

# Subpart F—Committee Procedures
§ 800.601
General.
(a) In any assessment, review, or investigation of a covered transaction, the Committee should consider the factors specified in section 721(f) and, as appropriate, require the parties to provide to the Committee the information necessary to consider such factors. The Committee's assessment, review, or investigation (if necessary) shall examine, as appropriate, whether:
(1) The transaction is a covered transaction;
(2) There is credible evidence to support a belief that any foreign person party to a covered transaction might take action that threatens to impair the national security of the United States; and
(3) Provisions of law, other than section 721 and the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, provide adequate and appropriate authority to protect the national security of the United States.
(b) During an assessment, review, or investigation, the Staff Chairperson may invite the parties to a notified transaction to attend a meeting with the Committee staff to discuss and clarify issues pertaining to the transaction. During an investigation, a party to the transaction under investigation may request a meeting with the Committee staff; such a request ordinarily will be granted.
(c) The Staff Chairperson shall be the point of contact for receiving material filed with the Committee, including notices and declarations.
(d) Where more than one lead agency is designated, communications on material matters between a party to the transaction and a lead agency shall include all lead agencies designated with regard to those matters.
(e) The parties' description of a transaction in a declaration or notice does not limit the ability of the Committee to, as appropriate, assess, review, or investigate, or exercise any other authorities available under section 721 with respect to any covered transaction that the Committee identifies as having been notified to the Committee based upon the facts set forth in the declaration or notice, any additional information provided to the Committee subsequent to the original declaration or notice, or any other information available to the Committee.
§ 800.602
Role of the Secretary of Labor.
In response to a request from the Chairperson of the Committee, the Secretary of Labor shall identify for the Committee any risk mitigation provisions proposed to or by the Committee that would violate U.S. employment laws or require a party to violate U.S. employment laws. The Secretary of Labor shall serve no policy role on the Committee.
§ 800.603
Materiality.
The Committee generally will not consider as material minor inaccuracies, omissions, or changes relating to financial or commercial factors not having a bearing on national security.
§ 800.604
Tolling of deadlines during lapse in appropriations.
Any deadline or time limitation under subpart D or E imposed on the Committee shall be tolled during a lapse in appropriations.

# Subpart G—Finality of Action
§ 800.701
Finality of actions under section 721.
(a) All authority available to the President or the Committee under section 721(d), including divestment authority, shall remain available at the discretion of the President with respect to:
(1) Covered control transactions proposed or pending on or after August 23, 1988;
(2) Transactions that, between November 10, 2018, and February 12, 2020, fell within the scope of part 801 of this title; and
(3) Covered investments proposed or pending after February 13, 2020.
(b) Subject to § 800.501(c)(1)(ii), such authority shall not be exercised if:
(1) Subject to § 800.219(d), the Committee, through its Staff Chairperson, has advised a party (or the parties) in writing that a particular transaction with respect to which a voluntary notice or a declaration has been filed is not a covered transaction;
(2) The parties to the transaction have been advised in writing under § 800.407(a)(4), § 800.506, or § 800.508(d) that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 with respect to the covered transaction; or
(3) The President has previously announced, under section 721(d), his or her decision not to exercise his or her authority under section 721 with respect to the covered transaction.
(c) Divestment or other relief under section 721 shall not be available with respect to transactions that were completed prior to August 23, 1988.

# Subpart H—Provision and Handling of Information
§ 800.801
Obligation of parties or other persons to provide information.
(a) This paragraph (a) sets forth requirements for parties to a transaction or other persons to provide information to the Staff Chairperson or requesting lead agency in the circumstances specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section.
(1) Parties to a transaction that is notified or declared under subpart D or E of this part shall provide information to the Staff Chairperson that will enable the Committee to conduct a full assessment, review, and/or investigation of the transaction.
(2) For a transaction for which no voluntary notice or declaration has been submitted and for which the Staff Chairperson has requested information as provided for in § 800.501(b), parties to the transaction or other persons shall provide information to the Staff Chairperson that will enable the Committee to determine:
(i) Whether the transaction is a covered transaction;
(ii) Whether the transaction may raise national security considerations; or
(iii) As appropriate, whether the transaction is a transaction for which a submission is or was required under § 800.401.
(3) Independent of any obligations under an agreement, condition, or order authorized under section 721(
l
), parties shall provide information to the Staff Chairperson or the requesting lead agency so as to enable the Committee to assess compliance with section 721 and the regulations in this part or to monitor compliance with, enforce or modify the terms of, or decide to
terminate any agreement entered into, condition imposed, or order issued.
(4) Any person that has submitted information to the Committee shall respond to requests from the Staff Chairperson for information to enable the Committee to determine whether the person made any material misstatement or omitted material information from any such submission.
(5) Parties to a transaction that have filed information with the Committee shall promptly advise the Staff Chairperson of any material changes to such information.
(6) If deemed appropriate by the Committee, the Staff Chairperson may obtain information from parties to a transaction or other persons through subpoena or otherwise, under the Defense Production Act, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4555(a)).
(b) Documentary materials or information required or requested to be filed with the Committee under this part shall be submitted in English. Supplementary materials, such as annual reports, written in a foreign language shall be submitted in certified English translation.
(c) Any information filed with the Committee in connection with any action for which a report is required under section 721(l)(6)(B) with respect to the implementation of a mitigation agreement or condition described in section 721(l)(3)(A) shall be accompanied by a certification that complies with the requirements of section 721(n) and § 800.204. A sample certification may be found at the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 93184, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 800.802
Confidentiality.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any information or documentary material submitted or filed with the Committee under this part, including information or documentary material filed under § 800.501(g), shall be exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552
et seq.
), and no such information or documentary material may be made public.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section shall not prohibit disclosure of the following:
(1) Information relevant to any administrative or judicial action or proceeding;
(2) Information to Congress or to any duly authorized committee or subcommittee of Congress;
(3) Information important to the national security analysis or actions of the Committee to any domestic governmental entity, or to any foreign governmental entity of a United States ally or partner, under the exclusive direction and authorization of the Chairperson, only to the extent necessary for national security purposes, and subject to appropriate confidentiality and classification requirements; or
(4) Information that the parties have consented to be disclosed to third parties.
(c) This section shall continue to apply with respect to information and documentary material submitted or filed with the Committee in any case where:
(1) Action has concluded under section 721 concerning a notified transaction;
(2) A request to withdraw a notice or a declaration is granted under § 800.509 or § 800.406(c), respectively, or where a notice or a declaration has been rejected under § 800.504(a) or § 800.406(a), respectively;
(3) The Committee determines that a notified or declared transaction is not a covered transaction; or
(4) Such information or documentary material was filed under subpart D and the parties do not subsequently file a notice under subpart E.
(d) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section shall be interpreted to prohibit the public disclosure by a party of documentary material or information that it has submitted or filed with the Committee. Any such documentary material or information so disclosed may subsequently be reflected in the public statements of the Chairperson, who is authorized to communicate with the public and the Congress on behalf of the Committee, or of the Chairperson's designee.
(e) The provisions of the Defense Production Act Reauthorization of 2003, as
amended (50 U.S.C. 4555(d)) relating to fines and imprisonment shall apply with respect to the disclosure of information or documentary material filed with the Committee under these regulations.

# Subpart I—Penalties and Damages
§ 800.901
Penalties and damages.
(a)(1) Any person who submits a declaration or notice with a material misstatement or omission or makes a false certification under § 800.404, § 800.405, or § 800.502 may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty not to exceed $5,000,000 per violation.
(2) Any person who, in response to a request from the Staff Chairperson or a lead agency, submits to the Committee any information pursuant to § 800.801(a)(2), (3), or (4) or (c) with a material misstatement or omission may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty not to exceed $5,000,000 per violation. This paragraph (a)(2) shall apply only with respect to responses to requests that were made in writing, specified a time frame for response, and indicated the applicability of this paragraph (a).
(3) The amount of the penalty imposed for a violation as provided for in this paragraph (a) shall be based on the nature of the violation.
(b) Any person who fails to comply with the requirements of § 800.401 may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty not to exceed $5,000,000 or the value of the transaction, whichever is greater. The amount of the penalty imposed for a violation shall be based on the nature of the violation.
(c)(1) Any person who, after December 22, 2008, violates, intentionally or through gross negligence, a material provision of a mitigation agreement entered into before October 11, 2018, with, a material condition imposed before October 11, 2018, by, or an order issued before October 11, 2018, by, the United States under section 721(
l
) may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty not to exceed $250,000 per violation or the value of the transaction, whichever is greater. For clarification, under the previous sentence, whichever penalty amount is greater may be imposed per violation, and the amount of the penalty imposed for a violation shall be based on the nature of the violation.
(2) Any person who violates a material provision of a mitigation agreement entered into on or after October 11, 2018, and before December 26, 2024, with, a material condition imposed on or after October 11, 2018, and before December 26, 2024, by, or an order issued on or after October 11, 2018, and before December 26, 2024, by, the United States under section 721(
l
) may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty per violation not to exceed $250,000 or the value of the transaction, whichever is greater. For clarification, under the previous sentence, whichever penalty amount is greater may be imposed per violation, and the amount of the penalty imposed for a violation shall be based on the nature of the violation.
(3)(i) Any person who violates a material provision of a mitigation agreement entered into on or after December 26, 2024, with, a material condition imposed on or after December 26, 2024, by, or an order issued on or after December 26, 2024, by, the United States under section 721(
l
) may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty per violation not to exceed the greatest of:
(A) $5,000,000;
(B) The value of the person's interest in the U.S. business (or, as applicable, the parent of the U.S. business) at the time of the transaction;
(C) The value of the person's interest in the U.S. business (or, as applicable, the parent of the U.S. business) at the time of the violation in question or the most proximate time to the violation for which assessing such value is practicable; or
(D) The value of the transaction filed with the Committee.
(ii) For clarification, under paragraphs (c)(3)(i)(A) through (D) of this section, whichever penalty amount is greatest may be imposed per violation, and the amount of the penalty imposed for a violation shall be based on the nature of the violation.
(d) A mitigation agreement entered into or amended under section 721(l) after December 22, 2008, may include a provision providing for liquidated or
actual damages for breaches of the agreement. The mitigation agreement shall specify the amount of any liquidated damages that are a reasonable assessment of the harm to the national security that could result from a breach of the agreement. Any mitigation agreement containing a liquidated damages provision shall include a provision specifying that the Committee may consider the severity of the breach in deciding whether to seek a lesser amount than that stipulated in the agreement.
(e) A determination to impose penalties under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section must be made by the Committee. Notice of the penalty, including a written explanation of the conduct to be penalized and the amount of the penalty, shall be sent to the subject person electronically and by U.S. mail or courier service. Notice shall be deemed to have been effected by the earlier of the date of electronic transmission and the date of receipt of U.S. mail or courier service. For the purposes of this section, the term
subject person
means the person or persons who may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty.
(f) Upon receiving notice of a penalty to be imposed under any of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, the subject person may, within 20 business days of receipt of such notice, submit a petition for reconsideration to the Staff Chairperson, including a defense, justification, or explanation for the conduct to be penalized. The Committee will review the petition and issue any final penalty determination within 20 business days of receipt of the petition. The Staff Chairperson and the subject person may extend either such period through written agreement or, where there is a compelling circumstance and it is deemed appropriate by the Committee, the Staff Chairperson may extend either period by notifying the subject person in writing of the extended time frame. The Committee and the subject person may reach an agreement on an appropriate remedy at any time before the Committee issues any final penalty determination.
(g) The penalties and damages authorized in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section may be recovered in a civil action brought by the United States in federal district court.
(h) Section 2 of the False Statements Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (18 U.S.C. 1001), shall apply to all information provided to the Committee under section 721, including by any party to a covered transaction.
(i) The penalties and damages available under this section are without prejudice to other penalties, civil or criminal, available under law.
(j) The imposition of a civil monetary penalty or damages under these regulations creates a debt due to the U.S. Government. The Department of the Treasury may take action to collect the penalty or damages assessed if not paid within the time prescribed by the Committee and notified to the applicable party or parties. In addition or instead, the matter may be referred to the Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty or damages.
[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 93185, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 800.902
Effect of lack of compliance.
If, at any time after a mitigation agreement or condition is entered into or imposed under section 721(l), the Committee or a lead agency in coordination with the Staff Chairperson, as the case may be, determines that a party or parties to the agreement or condition are not in compliance with the terms of the agreement or condition, the Committee or a lead agency in coordination with the Staff Chairperson may, in addition to the authority of the Committee to impose penalties under section 721(h) and to unilaterally initiate a review of any covered transaction under section 721(b)(1)(D)(iii):
(a) Negotiate a plan of action for the party or parties to remediate the lack of compliance, with failure to abide by the plan or otherwise remediate the lack of compliance serving as the basis for the Committee to find a material breach of the agreement or condition;
(b) Require that the party or parties submit a written notice or declaration under clause (i) of section 721(b)(1)(C) with respect to a covered transaction
initiated after the date of the determination of noncompliance and before the date that is five years after the date of the determination to the Committee to initiate a review of the transaction under section 721(b); or
(c) Seek injunctive relief.

# Subpart J—Foreign National Security Investment Review Regimes
§ 800.1001
Determinations.
(a) The Committee may determine at any time that a foreign state has established and is effectively utilizing a robust process to analyze foreign investments for national security risks and to facilitate coordination with the United States on matters relating to investment security.
(b) The Committee may rescind a determination under paragraph (a) of this section if the Committee determines that such a rescission is appropriate.
(c) The Chairperson of the Committee shall publish a notice of any determination or rescission of a determination under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, respectively, in the
Federal Register
.
§ 800.1002
Effect of determinations.
(a) A determination under § 800.1001(a) shall take effect immediately upon publication of a notice of such determination under § 800.1001(c) and remain in effect unless rescinded under § 800.1001(b).
(b) A rescission of a determination under § 800.1001(b) shall take effect on the date specified in the notice published under § 800.1001(c).
(c) A determination under § 800.1001(a) does not apply to any transaction for which a declaration or notice has been accepted by the Staff Chairperson under § 800.405(a)(1) or § 800.503(a), respectively.
(d) A rescission of a determination under § 800.1001(b) does not apply to any transaction for which:
(1) The completion date is prior to the date upon which the rescission of a determination under paragraph (b) of this section becomes effective; or
(2) The following has occurred before publication of the rescission of determination under § 800.1001(c):
(i) The parties to the transaction have executed a binding written agreement, or other binding document, establishing the material terms of the transaction that is ultimately consummated;
(ii) A party has made a public offer to shareholders to buy shares of a U.S. business; or
(iii) A shareholder has solicited proxies in connection with an election of the board of directors of a U.S. business or has requested the conversion of convertible voting securities.

# Subpart K—Filing Fees

# Source:
85 FR 23740, Apr. 29, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 800.1101
Amount of fee.
Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, the parties filing a formal written notice of a transaction with the Committee under § 800.501(a) on or after May 1, 2020, shall pay a filing fee as follows:
(a) Where the value of the transaction is less than $500,000: No fee;
(b) Where the value of the transaction is equal to or greater than $500,000 but less than $5,000,000: $750;
(c) Where the value of the transaction is equal to or greater than $5,000,000 but less than $50,000,000: $7,500;
(d) Where the value of the transaction is equal to or greater than $50,000,000 but less than $250,000,000: $75,000;
(e) Where the value of the transaction is equal to or greater than $250,000,000 but less than $750,000,000: $150,000;
(f) Where the value of the transaction is equal to or greater than $750,000,000: $300,000.
§ 800.1102
Timing of payment.
Subject to §§ 800.1106 through 800.1108, the Staff Chairperson shall not accept a formal written notice under § 800.503(a) until payment of any fee required under this subpart is received by the Department of the Treasury in the manner specified on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
§ 800.1103
Valuation.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the value of the transaction for purposes of determining the required fee amount in this subpart means the total value of all consideration that has been or will be provided in the context of the transaction by or on behalf of the foreign person that is a party to the transaction, including cash, assets, shares or other ownership interests, debt forgiveness, or services or other in-kind consideration.
(b) Determining the value of consideration:
(1) Where the consideration is or includes securities traded on a national securities exchange, the value of the securities is the closing price on the national securities exchange on which the securities are primarily traded on the trading day immediately prior to the date the parties file the formal written notice with the Committee under § 800.501(a), or if the securities were not traded on that day, the last published closing price.
(2) Where the consideration is or includes other non-cash assets, services, interests, or other in-kind consideration, the value of the assets, services, interests, or other in-kind consideration is their fair market value as of the date the parties file the formal written notice.
(3) Where the transaction is or includes a lending transaction, the consideration includes the cash value of the loan, or similar financing arrangement, made available or provided by or on behalf of the foreign person that is a party to the transaction.
(4) Where the transaction is or includes the conversion of a contingent equity interest previously acquired by a foreign person that is a party to the transaction, the consideration includes what was paid by or on behalf of the foreign person to initially acquire the contingent equity interest, in addition to any other consideration paid or to be paid in connection with the conversion.
(c) Exceptions:
(1) To the extent the consideration to be provided by the foreign person has not been or cannot reasonably be determined as of the date the parties file the notice, the value of the transaction includes, with respect to the interest for which consideration has not been determined, the fair market value of the interest being acquired in the transaction as of the date the parties file the formal written notice.

# Note 1 to § 800.1103(
c

# )(1):
The consideration amount may be determined notwithstanding minor standard adjustments that are to be made at closing.
(2) Where the transaction involves a merger or the contribution of one or more U.S. businesses to a joint venture, the value of the transaction is the fair market value of the U.S. business(es) being merged or contributed.
(3) Where the value of a transaction is $5,000,000 or more, but the transaction includes one or more non-U.S. businesses, and the value of the interest acquired in the U.S. business is less than $5,000,000, the filing fee under § 800.1101(b) is applicable. The value of the U.S. business, for purposes of this paragraph, is the fair market value of the assets of the U.S. business.
(d) Fair market value means the price that would be received in exchange for sale of an interest, or paid to receive a service or to transfer liability, in an orderly transaction between market participants.
(1) In determining fair market value, parties shall make a good faith estimate and generally may rely on the last valuation as presented in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) or other widely recognized accounting principles, such as the International Financial Reporting Standards, or the valuation of an independent appraiser; provided, however, that if no valuation has occurred within the prior two fiscal quarters, or if there have been significant changes to the fair market value since the last valuation, the parties shall make a good faith estimate at the time of filing the formal written notice, or, if the parties are filing after the completion of the transaction, the completion date of the transaction.
(2) In determining the fair market value of services, the parties may rely upon the value of services determined
by the parties as set forth in an executed written agreement, or make an estimate at the time of filing the formal written notice based upon rates charged to third parties or upon recent industry reports or other sources of comparable commercial data; provided, however, if such sources are unavailable, the parties shall make a good faith estimate. If the parties are filing after completion of the transaction, the parties shall make an estimate of the fair market value as of the completion date.
(3) The Staff Chairperson is not bound by the parties' characterization of the transaction and its value or the parties' good faith approximation provided to the Committee under § 800.502(c)(1)(viii).
(e) Multiple-phase and contingent equity interest transactions:
(1) Where a transaction will be effectuated in multiple phases, the value of the transaction includes the total value of the multiple phases, as may be reasonably determined as of the date the parties file the formal written notice.
(2) Where a transaction is or includes the acquisition of contingent equity interest, the value of the transaction includes the consideration that was paid by or on behalf of the foreign person to acquire the contingent equity interest, and, if the conditions that lead to conversion will occur imminently, the conditions are within the control of the acquiring party, and the consideration for the interest that would be acquired upon conversion or satisfaction of contingent conditions can be reasonably determined at the time of acquisition, any other consideration paid or to be paid in connection with the conversion.

# Note 2 to § 800.1103(
e

# )(2):
See § 800.1103(b)(4) regarding consideration for a contingent equity interest where the interest has been converted to equity.
(f) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to acquire all of the issued and outstanding shares of Corporation B, a U.S. business, in exchange for $100,000,000 in cash. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $100,000,000, and the filing fee is $75,000.
(2)
Example 2.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to acquire all of the issued and outstanding shares of Corporation B, a U.S. business, in a two-for-one stock swap transaction whereby a holder of a share of Corporation B's stock is entitled to receive two shares of Corporation A's stock. Corporation A's stock is listed on the NASDAQ, a national securities exchange. In aggregate, the holders of Corporation B's stock will receive 10,000,000 shares of Corporation A's stock in the transaction. On the trading day immediately prior to the filing of the formal written notice, the closing price of Corporation A's stock on NASDAQ was $20 per share. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $200,000,000, and the filing fee is $75,000.
(3)
Example 3.
Corporation B, a U.S. business, is issuing new shares that will represent 50 percent of its issued and outstanding shares. Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to acquire these shares. As consideration, Corporation A will contribute to Corporation B certain inventory, machines, and intellectual property. The parties to the transaction estimate in good faith, based on the most recent quarterly financial statements of Corporation A, which were prepared in accordance with GAAP, that the fair market value of the assets contributed as consideration is $40,000,000. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $40,000,000, and the filing fee is $7,500.
(4)
Example 4.
Corporation A and Corporation B are establishing a joint venture, JV Corp., which will be controlled by Corporation B, a foreign person. Corporation A contributes a U.S. business, the fair market value of which is $150,000,000, to JV Corp. Corporation B contributes $150,000,000 in cash to JV Corp. The value of the transaction is $150,000,000, which is equal to the value of the U.S. business being contributed. Assuming no other relevant facts, the filing fee is $75,000.
(5)
Example 5.
Corporation A, a foreign person, enters into a stock purchase agreement with Person Z to acquire 100 percent of the issued and outstanding shares of Corporation B, a
U.S. business. The value of the consideration has not been determined because it will be payable only once Corporation B achieves certain development and sales milestones, and it will be 10 percent of Corporation B's revenue over a future five-year period. The parties estimate in good faith that the fair market value of 100 percent of the shares of Corporation B is $30,000,000 based on a number of factors, including application of well-known accounting standards such as Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement 157, a recent valuation conducted by a third-party auditor, and a proposal to acquire Corporation B made by another bidder for approximately $30,000,000 in cash. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $30,000,000, and the filing fee is $7,500.
(6)
Example 6.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to acquire 100 percent of the assets of Corporation B, a foreign person, for $100,000,000. Corporation B has subsidiaries in several countries, including Corporation C, a U.S. business. The fair market value of Corporation C's assets is $1,000,000. Assuming no other relevant facts, under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, a $750 filing fee is required.
(7)
Example 7.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to acquire 50 percent of the voting interest of Corporation B, a U.S. business. Under the terms of a stock purchase agreement, the transaction will be effectuated in two phases. First, Corporation A will acquire 25 percent of the voting interest of Corporation B in exchange for $30,000,000 (phase 1). Two months later, Corporation A will acquire the other 25 percent of the voting interest of Corporation B in exchange for another $30,000,000 (phase 2). Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the consideration is $60,000,000 (the total consideration for both phases), and the filing fee is $75,000.
(8)
Example 8.
Corporation A, a foreign person, pays $5,000,000 to acquire 100,000 shares and call options from Corporation B, a U.S. business. The call options can be exercised after 90 days, and if exercised, Corporation A will have the right to acquire another 60,000 shares of Corporation B in exchange for an additional $3,000,000. Because the options may be exercised imminently, conversion of the call options is in the control of Corporation A, and the consideration for the interest acquired as a result of conversion can be reasonably determined, the value of the transaction includes the consideration for the shares and the call options as well as the consideration paid to exercise the options. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the consideration is $8,000,000, and the filing fee is $7,500.
(g) The determination of the value of the transaction for purposes of calculating the filing fee in no way limits the Committee's jurisdiction or its authority to review, investigate, mitigate, impose penalties regarding, or take any other action regarding any covered transaction.
§ 800.1104
Manner of payment.
Parties to a transaction must pay any filing fee by electronic payment. The filing fee must be paid in U.S. dollars. Instructions for paying filing fees are available on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
§ 800.1105
Refunds.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Department of the Treasury shall not refund a filing fee in whole or in part.
(b) If the Committee determines that the transaction is not a covered transaction, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(c) In response to a petition by a party, if the Staff Chairperson determines, based on the information and representations contained in the formal written notice, as well as any other information provided by the parties, that a party or the parties to a transaction paid a filing fee in an amount greater than required at the time of filing, the Department of the Treasury shall refund the amount of overpayment to the party or parties who paid the filing fee.
§ 800.1106
Waiver.
If the Staff Chairperson determines that extraordinary circumstances relating to national security warrant, the Staff Chairperson may waive the filing fee in whole or in part and will
notify the parties in writing. No waiver shall be implied, even where the Staff Chairperson does not reject a voluntary notice under § 800.1108 for failure to pay the required filing fee.
§ 800.1107
Refilings.
The parties to a transaction shall not be required to pay an additional filing fee in the event that the Staff Chairperson permits the parties to withdraw and refile a notice under § 800.509(c)(2), unless the Staff Chairperson determines that a material change to the transaction has occurred, or a material inaccuracy or omission was made by the parties in information provided to the Committee, that requires the Committee to consider new information, in which case the Staff Chairperson will inform the parties in writing.
§ 800.1108
Rejection of voluntary notice.
The Staff Chairperson may reject a voluntary notice under § 800.504(a)(3) upon a determination that the amount of the filing fee paid by the parties was insufficient under this subpart. Prior to rejecting a notice under § 800.504(a)(3), the Staff Chairperson shall inform the parties in writing of the insufficiency of payment and provide the parties three business days to pay the remainder of the filing fee. If the Staff Chairperson does not reject a voluntary notice under § 800.504(a)(3) upon a determination that the amount of the filing fee payment paid by the parties was insufficient under this section, the balance of the fee remains payable unless the Staff Chairperson notifies the parties in writing that the payment has been waived in whole or in part.
Pt. 800, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 800—Covered Investment Critical Infrastructure and Functions Related to Covered Investment Critical Infrastructure.
Column 1—Covered investment critical infrastructure
Column 2—Functions related to covered investment critical
infrastructure
(i) Any:
(i) Own or operate any:
(a) Internet protocol network that has access to every other internet protocol network solely via settlement-free peering; or
(a) Internet protocol network that has access to every other internet protocol network solely via settlement-free peering; or
(b) telecommunications service or information service, each as defined in section 3(a)(2) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (47 U.S.C. 153), or fiber optic cable, in each case that directly serves any military installation identified in § 802.227.
(b) telecommunications service or information service, each as defined in section 3(a)(2) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (47 U.S.C. 153), or fiber optic cable, in each case that directly serves any military installation identified in § 802.227.
(ii) Any internet exchange point that supports public peering.
(ii) Own or operate any internet exchange point that supports public peering.
(iii) Any submarine cable system requiring a license under section 1 of the Cable Landing License Act of 1921 (47 U.S.C. 34), which includes any associated submarine cable, submarine cable landing facilities, and any facility that performs network management, monitoring, maintenance, or other operational functions for such submarine cable system.
(iii) Own or operate any submarine cable system requiring a license under section 1 of the Cable Landing License Act of 1921 (47 U.S.C. 34), which includes any associated submarine cable, submarine cable landing facilities, and any facility that performs network management, monitoring, maintenance, or other operational functions for such submarine cable system.
(iv) Any submarine cable, landing facility, or facility that performs network management, monitoring, maintenance, or other operational function that is part of a submarine cable system described above in item (iii) of column 1 of this appendix A.
(iv) Supply or service any submarine cable, landing facility, or facility that performs network management, monitoring, maintenance, or other operational function that is part of a submarine cable system described above in item (iii) of column 1 of this appendix A.
(v) Any data center that is collocated at a submarine cable landing point, landing station, or termination station.
(v) Own or operate any data center that is collocated at a submarine cable landing point, landing station, or termination station.
(vi) Any satellite or satellite system providing services directly to the Department of Defense or any component thereof.
(vi) Own or operate any satellite or satellite system providing services directly to the Department of Defense or any component thereof.
(vii) Any industrial resource other than commercially available off-the-shelf items, as defined in section 4203(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996, as amended (41 U.S.C. 104), that is manufactured or operated for a Major Defense Acquisition Program, as defined in section 7(b)(2)(A) of the Defense Technical Corrections Act of 1987, as amended (10 U.S.C. 2430), or a Major System, as defined in 10 U.S.C. 2302d, as amended, and:
(vii) As applicable, manufacture any industrial resource other than commercially available off-the-shelf items, as defined in section 4203(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996, as amended (41 U.S.C. 104), or operate any industrial resource that is a facility, in each case, for a Major Defense Acquisition Program, as defined in section 7(b)(2)(A) of the Defense Technical Corrections Act of 1987, as amended (10 U.S.C. 2430), or a Major System, as defined in 10 U.S.C. 2302d, as amended, and:
(a) The U.S. business is a “single source,” “sole source,” or “strategic multisource,” to the extent the U.S. business has been notified of such status; or
(a) The U.S. business is a “single source,” “sole source,” or “strategic multisource,” to the extent the U.S. business has been notified of such status; or
(b) the industrial resource:
(b) the industrial resource:
(1) Requires 12 months or more to manufacture; or
(1) Requires 12 months or more to manufacture; or
(2) is a “long lead” item, to the extent the U.S. business has been notified that such industrial resource is a “long lead” item.
(2) is a “long lead” item, to the extent the U.S. business has been notified that such industrial resource is a “long lead” item.
(viii) Any industrial resource, other than commercially available off-the-shelf items, as defined in section 4203(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996, as amended (41 U.S.C. 104), that is manufactured under a “DX” priority rated contract or order under the Defense Priorities and Allocations System regulation (15 CFR part 700, as amended) in the preceding 24 months.
(viii) Manufacture any industrial resource, other than commercially available off-the-shelf items, as defined in section 4203(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996, as amended (41 U.S.C. 104), under a “DX” priority rated contract or order under the Defense Priorities and Allocations System regulation (15 CFR part 700, as amended) within 24 months of the transaction in question.
(ix) Any facility in the United States that manufactures:
(ix) Manufacture any of the following in the United States:
(a) Specialty metal, as defined in section 842(a)(1)(i) of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007, as amended (10 U.S.C. 2533b);
(a) Specialty metal, as defined in section 842(a)(1)(i) of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007, as amended (10 U.S.C. 2533b);
(b) covered material, as defined in 10 U.S.C. 2533c, as amended;
(b) covered material, as defined in 10 U.S.C. 2533c, as amended;
(c) chemical weapons antidote contained in automatic injectors, as described in 10 U.S.C. 2534, as amended; or
(c) chemical weapons antidote contained in automatic injectors, as described in 10 U.S.C. 2534, as amended; or
(d) carbon, alloy, and armor steel plate that is in Federal Supply Class 9515 or is described by specifications of the American Society for Testing Materials or the American Iron and Steel Institute.
(d) carbon, alloy, and armor steel plate that is in Federal Supply Class 9515 or is described by specifications of the American Society for Testing Materials or the American Iron and Steel Institute.
(x) Any industrial resource other than commercially available off-the-shelf items, as defined in 41 U.S.C. 104, as amended, that has been funded, in whole or in part, by any of the following sources in the last 60 months:
(x) As applicable, manufacture any industrial resource other than commercially available off-the-shelf items, as defined in 41 U.S.C. 104, as amended, or operate any industrial resource that is a facility, in each case, that has been funded, in whole or in part, by any of the following sources within 60 months of the transaction in question:
(a) Defense Production Act of 1950 Title III program, as amended (50 U.S.C 4501
et seq.
);
(a) Defense Production Act of 1950 Title III program, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4501
et seq.
);
(b) Industrial Base Fund under section 896(b)(1) of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011, as amended (10 U.S.C. 2508);
(b) Industrial Base Fund under section 896(b)(1) of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011, as amended (10 U.S.C. 2508);
(c) Rapid Innovation Fund under section 1073 of Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011, as amended (10 U.S.C. 2359a);
(c) Rapid Innovation Fund under section 1073 of Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011, as amended (10 U.S.C. 2359a);
(d) Manufacturing Technology Program under 10 U.S.C. 2521, as amended;
(d) Manufacturing Technology Program under 10 U.S.C. 2521, as amended;
(e) Defense Logistics Agency Warstopper Program, as described in DLA Instruction 1212, Industrial Capabilities Program—Manage the WarStopper Program; or
(e) Defense Logistics Agency Warstopper Program, as described in DLA Instruction 1212, Industrial Capabilities Program—Manage the WarStopper Program; or
(f) Defense Logistics Agency Surge and Sustainment contract, as described in Subpart 17.93 of the Defense Logistics Acquisition Directive.
(f) Defense Logistics Agency Surge and Sustainment contract, as described in Subpart 17.93 of the Defense Logistics Acquisition Directive.
(xi) Any system, including facilities, for the generation, transmission, distribution, or storage of electric energy comprising the bulk-power system, as defined in section 215(a)(1) of the Federal Power Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 824o(a)(1)).
(xi) Own or operate any system, including facilities, for the generation, transmission, distribution, or storage of electric energy comprising the bulk-power system, as defined in section 215(a)(1) of the Federal Power Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 824o(a)(1)).
(xii) Any electric storage resource, as defined in 18 CFR 35.28(b)(9), as amended, that is physically connected to the bulk-power system.
(xii) Own or operate any electric storage resource, as defined in 18 CFR 35.28(b)(9), as amended, that is physically connected to the bulk-power system.
(xiii) Any facility that provides electric power generation, transmission, distribution, or storage directly to or located on any military installation identified in § 802.227.
(xiii) Own or operate any facility that provides electric power generation, transmission, distribution, or storage directly to or located on any military installation identified in § 802.227.
(xiv) Any industrial control system utilized by:
(xiv) Manufacture or service any industrial control system utilized by:
(a) System comprising the bulk-power system as described above in item (xi) of column 1 of this appendix A; or
(a) System comprising the bulk-power system as described above in item (xi) of column 1 of this appendix A; or
(b) a facility directly serving any military installation as described above in item (xiii) of column 1 of this appendix A.
(b) a facility directly serving any military installation as described above in item (xiii) of column 1 of this appendix A.
(xv) Any:
(xv) Own or operate:
(a) Any individual refinery with the capacity to produce 300,000 or more barrels per day (or equivalent) of refined oil or gas products; or
(a) Any individual refinery with the capacity to produce 300,000 or more barrels per day (or equivalent) of refined oil or gas products; or
(b) collection of one or more refineries owned or operated by a single U.S. business with the capacity to produce, in the aggregate, 500,000 or more barrels per day (or equivalent) of refined oil or gas products.
(b) one or more refineries with the capacity to produce, in the aggregate, 500,000 or more barrels per day (or equivalent) of refined oil or gas products.
(xvi) Any crude oil storage facility with the capacity to hold 30 million barrels or more of crude oil.
(xvi) Own or operate any crude oil storage facility with the capacity to hold 30 million barrels or more of crude oil.
(xvii) Any:
(xvii) Own or operate any:
(a) Liquefied natural gas (LNG) import or export terminal requiring:
(a) Liquefied natural gas (LNG) import or export terminal requiring:
(1) Approval under section 3(e) of the Natural Gas Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 717b(e)), or
(1) Approval under section 3(e) of the Natural Gas Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 717b(e)), or
(2) a license under section 4 of the Deepwater Port Act of 1974, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1503); or
(2) a license under section 4 of the Deepwater Port Act of 1974, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1503); or
(b) natural gas underground storage facility or LNG peak-shaving facility requiring a certificate of public convenience and necessity under section 7 of the Natural Gas Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 717f).
(b) natural gas underground storage facility or LNG peak-shaving facility requiring a certificate of public convenience and necessity under section 7 of the Natural Gas Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 717f).
(xviii) Any financial market utility that the Financial Stability Oversight Council has designated as systemically important under section 804 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 5463).
(xviii) Own or operate any financial market utility that the Financial Stability Oversight Council has designated as systemically important under section 804 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 5463).
(xix) Any exchange registered under section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (15 U.S.C. 78f), that facilitates trading in any national market system security, as defined in 17 CFR § 242.600, as amended, and which exchange during at least four of the preceding six calendar months had:
(xix) Own or operate any exchange registered under section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (15 U.S.C. 78f), that facilitates trading in any national market system security, as defined in 17 CFR § 242.600, as amended, and which exchange during at least four of the preceding six calendar months had:
(a) With respect to all national market system securities that are not options, 10 percent or more of the average daily dollar volume reported by applicable transaction reporting plans; or
(a) With respect to all national market system securities that are not options, 10 percent or more of the average daily dollar volume reported by applicable transaction reporting plans; or
(b) with respect to all listed options, 15 percent or more of the average daily dollar volume reported by applicable national market system plans for reporting transactions in listed options.
(b) with respect to all listed options, 15 percent or more of the average daily dollar volume reported by applicable national market system plans for reporting transactions in listed options.
(xx) Any technology service provider in the Significant Service Provider Program of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council that provides core processing services.
(xx) Own or operate any technology service provider in the Significant Service Provider Program of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council that provides core processing services.
(xxi) Any rail line and associated connector line designated as part of the Department of Defense's Strategic Rail Corridor Network.
(xxi) Own or operate any rail line and associated connector line designated as part of the Department of Defense's Strategic Rail Corridor Network.
(xxii) Any interstate oil pipeline that:
(xxii) Own or operate any interstate oil pipeline that:
(a) Has the capacity to transport:
(a) Has the capacity to transport:
(1) 500,000 barrels per day or more of crude oil, or
(1) 500,000 barrels per day or more of crude oil, or
(2) 90 million gallons per day or more of refined petroleum product; or
(2) 90 million gallons per day or more of refined petroleum product; or
(b) directly serves the strategic petroleum reserve, as defined in section 152 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 6232).
(b) directly serves the strategic petroleum reserve, as defined in section 152 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 6232).
(xxiii) Any interstate natural gas pipeline with an outside diameter of 20 or more inches.
(xxiii) Own or operate any interstate natural gas pipeline with an outside diameter of 20 or more inches.
(xxiv) Any industrial control system utilized by:
(xxiv) Manufacture or service any industrial control system utilized by:
(a) An interstate oil pipeline as described above in item (xxii) of column 1 of this appendix A; or
(a) An interstate oil pipeline as described above in item (xxii) of column 1 of this appendix A; or
(b) an interstate natural gas pipeline as described above in item (xxiii) of column 1 of this appendix A.
(b) an interstate natural gas pipeline as described above in item (xxiii) of column 1 of this appendix A.
(xxv) Any airport identified in § 802.210(a)(1) through (3).
(xxv) Own or operate any airport identified in § 802.210(a)(1) through (3).
(xxvi) Any:
(xxvi) Own or operate any:
(a) Maritime port identified in § 802.210(a)(4) or (5); or
(a) Maritime port identified in § 802.210(a)(4) or (5); or
(b) any individual terminal at such maritime ports.
(b) any individual terminal at such maritime ports.
(xxvii) Any public water system, as defined in section 1401(4) of the Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 300f(4)(A)), or treatment works, as defined in section 212(2)(A) of the Clean Water Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1292(2)), which:
(xxvii) Own or operate any public water system, as defined in section 1401(4) of the Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 300f(4)(A)), or treatment works, as defined in section 212(2)(A) of the Clean Water Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1292(2)), which:
(a) Regularly serves 10,000 individuals or more, or
(a) Regularly serves 10,000 individuals or more, or
(b) directly serves any military installation identified in § 802.227.
(b) directly serves any military installation identified in § 802.227.
(xxviii) Any industrial control system utilized by a public water system or treatment works as described above in item (xxvii) of column 1 of this appendix A.
(xxviii) Manufacture or service any industrial control system utilized by a public water system or treatment works as described above in item (xxvii) of column 1 of this appendix A.
Pt. 801

# PART 801—PILOT PROGRAM TO REVIEW CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING FOREIGN PERSONS AND CRITICAL TECHNOLOGIES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
801.101
Scope.
801.102
Effect on other law.
801.103
Applicability rule.

# Subpart B—Definitions
801.201
General.
801.202
Completion date.
801.203
Contingent equity interest.
801.204
Critical technologies.
801.205
FIRRMA.
801.206
Investment.
801.207
Investment fund.
801.208
Material nonpublic technical information.
801.209
Pilot program covered investment.
801.210
Pilot program covered transaction.
801.211
Pilot program effective date.
801.212
Pilot program industry.
801.213
Pilot program U.S. business.
801.214
Unaffiliated pilot program U.S. business.

# Subpart C—Pilot Program Covered Transactions
801.301
Control.
801.302
Transactions that are pilot program covered transactions.
801.303
Transactions that are not pilot program covered transactions.
801.304
Treatment of certain investment fund investments.
801.305
Exception for air carriers.
801.306
Timing rule for contingent equity interests.

# Subpart D—Mandatory Declarations Under the Pilot Program
801.401
Mandatory declarations under the pilot program.
801.402
Procedures for declarations under the pilot program.
801.403
Contents of declarations under the pilot program.
801.404
Beginning of thirty-day period.
801.405
General.
801.406
Rejection, disposition, or withdrawal of declarations.
801.407
Committee actions.
801.408
Confidentiality.
801.409
Penalties.

# Subpart E—Notice of Pilot Program Covered Transaction
801.501
Notice of pilot program covered transactions.
801.502
Applicability of part 800.
801.503
Additional contents of written notice.
801.504
Agency notice of pilot program covered transactions.

# Subpart F—Implementation of Certain Authority Provided in FIRRMA
801.601
Implementation of certain authority regarding covered transactions.
801.602
Implementation of certain authority regarding mandatory declarations.
Annex A to Part 801—Industries

# Authority:
50 U.S.C. 4565; Pub. L. 115-232.

# Source:
83 FR 51327, Oct. 11, 2018, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 801.101
Scope.
The regulations in this part implement a pilot program in accordance with section 1727(c) of the Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization Act of 2018. Pursuant to section 1727(c), the pilot program implements authorities provided in certain provisions of, or amendments made by, the Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization Act of 2018 that did not take effect on
the date of its enactment. This pilot program expands the scope of transactions reviewable by CFIUS to include certain investments by foreign persons in certain U.S. businesses that produce, design, test, manufacture, fabricate, or develop one or more critical technologies. The pilot program also requires that parties to a pilot program covered transaction notify CFIUS of the transaction by either submitting a declaration or filing a written notice. The regulations in this part supplement the existing regulations implementing section 721 of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended, under part 800 to Title 31 CFR Chapter VIII, which remain in effect. The pilot program implemented through these regulations will end no later than the date on which the full regulations implementing the Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization Act of 2018 become effective, and in no event later than the date that is 570 days after the enactment of the Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization Act of 2018. These regulations will be amended, replaced, or removed no later than the date on which the pilot program ends.
§ 801.102
Effect on other law.
Unless otherwise indicated, nothing in this part shall be construed as altering or affecting any other authority, process, regulation, investigation, enforcement measure, or review provided by or established under any other provision of federal law, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), or any other authority of the President or the Congress under the Constitution of the United States.
§ 801.103
Applicability rule.
The regulations in this part apply to any pilot program covered transaction for which the following occurred on or after November 10, 2018, and prior to February 13, 2020:
(a) The completion date, unless any of the following occurred before October 11, 2018:
(1) The parties to the transaction executed a binding written agreement or other document establishing the material terms of the transaction;
(2) A party made a public offer to shareholders to buy shares of the pilot program U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction; or
(3) A shareholder solicited proxies in connection with an election of the board of directors of the pilot program U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction;
(b) The parties to the transaction executed a binding written agreement or other document establishing the material terms of the transaction;
(c) A party made a public offer to shareholders to buy shares of the pilot program U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction; or
(d) A shareholder solicited proxies in connection with an election of the board of directors of the pilot program U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction or has requested the conversion of convertible voting securities thereof.
[85 FR 3155, Jan. 17, 2020]

# Subpart B—Definitions
§ 801.201
General.
Unless otherwise indicated, terms used in the regulations in this part that are defined in §§ 800.201 through 800.228 of this chapter have the meanings set forth therein.
§ 801.202
Completion date.
The term
completion date
means, with respect to a transaction, the date upon which an ownership interest, including a contingent equity interest, is conveyed, assigned, delivered, or otherwise transferred to a person, or a change in rights occurs.
§ 801.203
Contingent equity interest.
The term
contingent equity interest
means a financial instrument that currently does not entitle its owner or holder to voting rights but is convertible into an equity interest with voting rights.
§ 801.204
Critical technologies.
The term
critical technologies
means the following:
(a) Defense articles or defense services included on the United States Munitions List set forth in the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) (22 CFR parts 120-130).
(b) Items included on the Commerce Control List set forth in Supplement No. 1 to part 774 of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) (15 CFR parts 730-774) and controlled:
(1) Pursuant to multilateral regimes, including for reasons relating to national security, chemical and biological weapons proliferation, nuclear nonproliferation, or missile technology; or
(2) For reasons relating to regional stability or surreptitious listening.
(c) Specially designed and prepared nuclear equipment, parts and components, materials, software, and technology covered by 10 CFR part 810 (relating to assistance to foreign atomic energy activities).
(d) Nuclear facilities, equipment, and material covered by 10 CFR part 110 (relating to export and import of nuclear equipment and material).
(e) Select agents and toxins covered by 7 CFR part 331, 9 CFR part 121, or 42 CFR part 73.
(f) Emerging and foundational technologies controlled pursuant to section 1758 of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018.
§ 801.205
FIRRMA.
The term
FIRRMA
means the Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization Act of 2018, Subtitle A of Title XVII of Public Law 115-232 (Aug. 13, 2018).
§ 801.206
Investment.
The term
investment
means the acquisition of equity interest, including contingent equity interest.
§ 801.207
Investment fund.
The term
investment fund
means any entity that is an “investment company,” as defined in section 3(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
), or would be an “investment company” but for one or more of the exemptions provided in section 3(b) or 3(c) thereunder.
§ 801.208
Material nonpublic technical information.
(a) The term
material nonpublic technical information
means information that is not available in the public domain, and is necessary to design, fabricate, develop, test, produce, or manufacture critical technologies, including processes, techniques, or methods.
(b) The term
material nonpublic technical information
does not include financial information regarding the performance of an entity.
§ 801.209
Pilot program covered investment.
The term
pilot program covered investment
means an investment, direct or indirect, by a foreign person in an unaffiliated pilot program U.S. business that could not result in control by a foreign person of a pilot program U.S. business and that affords the foreign person:
(a) Access to any material nonpublic technical information in the possession of the pilot program U.S. business;
(b) Membership or observer rights on the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the pilot program U.S. business or the right to nominate an individual to a position on the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the pilot program U.S. business; or
(c) Any involvement, other than through voting of shares, in substantive decisionmaking of the pilot program U.S. business regarding the use, development, acquisition, or release of critical technology.
§ 801.210
Pilot program covered transaction.
The term
pilot program covered transaction
means:
(a) Any pilot program covered investment; or
(b) Any transaction by or with any foreign person that could result in foreign control of any pilot program U.S. business, including such a transaction carried out through a joint venture.
§ 801.211
Pilot program effective date.
The term
pilot program effective date
means November 10, 2018.
§ 801.212
Pilot program industry.
The term
pilot program industry
means any industry identified in Annex A to part 801 by reference to the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS).
§ 801.213
Pilot program U.S. business.
The term
pilot program U.S. business
means any U.S. business that produces, designs, tests, manufactures, fabricates, or develops a critical technology that is:
(a) Utilized in connection with the U.S. business's activity in one or more pilot program industries; or
(b) Designed by the U.S. business specifically for use in one or more pilot program industries.
§ 801.214
Unaffiliated pilot program U.S. business.
The term
unaffiliated pilot program U.S. business
means, with respect to a foreign person, a pilot program U.S. business in which that foreign person does not directly hold more than fifty percent of the outstanding voting interest or have the right to appoint more than half of the members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body.

# Subpart C—Pilot Program Covered Transactions
§ 801.301
Control.
For the sole purpose of determining whether a transaction could result in control of a pilot program U.S. business by a foreign person, the provisions set forth in subpart C of this part (excluding § 800.302(b) of this chapter and the examples thereunder) regarding covered transactions shall apply to any pilot program covered transaction declared to the Committee pursuant to § 801.401 or notified to the Committee pursuant to § 801.501.
§ 801.302
Transactions that are pilot program covered transactions.
Transactions that are pilot program covered transactions include, without limitation:
(a) A transaction that meets the requirements of § 801.209, irrespective of the percentage of voting interest acquired.

# Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to acquire a four percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B. Corporation B is a U.S. business that manufactures a critical technology as part of its business in a pilot program industry. Corporation B is therefore a pilot program U.S. business. Pursuant to the terms of the investment, a designee of Corporation A will have the right to observe the meetings of the board of directors of Corporation B. The proposed transaction is a pilot program covered investment and therefore a pilot program covered transaction.

# Example 2.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to acquire a four percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B, a pilot program U.S. business as described above. Pursuant to the terms of the investment, Corporation A has approval rights with respect to Corporation B's licensing of a critical technology to third parties. Corporation A is therefore involved in substantive decisionmaking with respect to Corporation B and the proposed transaction is a pilot program covered investment and a pilot program covered transaction.
(b) A transaction that meets the requirements of § 801.209, irrespective of the fact that the Committee concluded all action under section 721 for a previous pilot program covered investment by the same foreign person in the same pilot program U.S. business, where such transaction involves the acquisition of access or rights described by § 801.209 in addition to those notified to the Committee in the transaction for which the Committee previously concluded action.

# Example.
The Committee concludes all action under section 721 with respect to a pilot program covered investment by Corporation A, a foreign person, in which Corporation A acquires a four percent, non-controlling equity interest with board observer rights in Corporation B, a pilot program U.S. business. One year later, Corporation A proposes to acquire an additional five percent equity interest in Corporation B, resulting in Corporation A holding a nine percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B. Pursuant to the terms of the additional investment, Corporation A will be provided access to material nonpublic technical information in the possession of Corporation B to which Corporation A did not previously have access. The proposed transaction is a pilot program covered investment and therefore a pilot program covered transaction because the transaction involves both an acquisition
of an equity interest in a pilot program U.S. business and a new right to access material nonpublic technical information.
(c) A transaction that meets the requirements of § 801.209, irrespective of the fact that the critical technology produced, designed, tested, manufactured, fabricated, or developed by the pilot program U.S. business became controlled pursuant to section 1758 of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 after the pilot program effective date, unless any of the criteria set forth in paragraphs (b) through (d) of § 801.103 is satisfied with respect to the transaction prior to the critical technology becoming controlled pursuant to section 1758 of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018.

# Example.
Corporation A, a foreign person, has executed a written agreement establishing the material terms of a proposed non-controlling investment in Corporation B, a pilot program U.S. business. The proposed investment will afford Corporation A access to material nonpublic technical information in the possession of Corporation B. The only controlled technology produced, designed, tested, manufactured, fabricated, or developed by Corporation B became controlled pursuant to section 1758 of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 after the pilot program effective date but prior to the date upon which the written agreement establishing the material terms of the investment was executed. The proposed transaction is a pilot program covered investment and therefore a pilot program covered transaction.
(d) A transaction by or with any foreign person that could result in foreign control of any pilot program U.S. business.

# Example.
Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires a 40 percent interest and the ability to determine important matters with respect to Corporation B, a U.S. pilot program business. The proposed transaction is a pilot program covered transaction.
[83 FR 51327, Oct. 11, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 3156, Jan. 17, 2020]
§ 801.303
Transactions that are not pilot program covered transactions.
Transactions that are not pilot program covered transactions include, without limitation:
(a) An investment by a foreign person in a U.S. business that manufactures a technology that it utilizes in connection with its activity in one or more pilot program industries, but does not produce, design, test, manufacture, fabricate, or develop one or more critical technologies.

# Example.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to acquire a four percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B, a U.S. business that operates in a pilot program industry. Pursuant to the terms of the investment, a designee of Corporation A will have the right to observe the meetings of the board of directors of Corporation B. Corporation B does not produce, design, test, manufacture, fabricate, or develop any critical technology. Assuming no other relevant facts, the proposed transaction is not a pilot program covered transaction.
(b) An investment by a foreign person in a pilot program U.S. business that does not afford the foreign person any of the rights specified in paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) of § 801.209 or any control rights.

# Example.
The Committee concluded all action under section 721 with respect to a pilot program covered transaction in which Corporation A, a foreign person, acquired a four percent, non-controlling equity interest with board observer rights in Corporation B, a pilot program U.S. business. One year later, Corporation A proposes to acquire an additional five percent equity interest in Corporation B, which would result in Corporation A holding a nine percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B. The proposed investment does not afford Corporation A any additional rights with respect to Corporation B, including the rights specified in § 801.209. Assuming no other relevant facts, the proposed transaction is not a pilot program covered transaction.
(c) A transaction that results or could result in control by a foreign person of a U.S. business that is not a pilot program U.S. business.

# Example.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to purchase all of the shares of Corporation B, which is a U.S. business that operates in a pilot program industry but does not produce, design, test, manufacture, fabricate, or develop any critical technology. As the sole owner, Corporation A will have the right to elect directors and appoint other primary officers of Corporation B. Assuming no other relevant facts, the proposed transaction is not a pilot program covered transaction. It is, however, a covered transaction (see § 800.301 of this chapter).
§ 801.304
Treatment of certain investment fund investments.
(a) An indirect investment by a foreign person in a pilot program U.S. business through an investment fund that affords the foreign person (or a designee of the foreign person) membership as a limited partner or equivalent on an advisory board or a committee of the fund shall not be considered a pilot program covered transaction with respect to the foreign person if:
(1) The fund is managed exclusively by a general partner, a managing member, or an equivalent;
(2) The foreign person is not the general partner, managing member, or equivalent;
(3) The advisory board or committee does not have the ability to approve, disapprove, or otherwise control:
(i) Investment decisions of the investment fund; or
(ii) Decisions made by the general partner, managing member, or equivalent related to entities in which the investment fund is invested;
(4) The foreign person does not otherwise have the ability to control the investment fund, including the authority:
(i) To approve, disapprove, or otherwise control investment decisions of the investment fund;
(ii) To approve, disapprove, or otherwise control decisions made by the general partner, managing member, or equivalent related to entities in which the investment fund is invested; or
(iii) To unilaterally dismiss, prevent the dismissal of, select, or determine the compensation of the general partner, managing member, or equivalent;
(5) The foreign person does not have access to material nonpublic technical information as a result of its participation on the advisory board or committee; and
(6) The investment otherwise meets the requirements of paragraph (4)(D) of subsection (a) of section 721 made effective by part 801.
(b) For the purposes of paragraphs (a)(3) and (4), and except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a waiver of a potential conflict of interest, a waiver of an allocation limitation, or a similar activity, applicable to a transaction pursuant to the terms of an agreement governing an investment fund shall not be considered to constitute control of investment decisions of the investment fund or decisions relating to entities in which the investment fund is invested.
(c) In extraordinary circumstances, the Committee may consider the waiver of a potential conflict of interest, the waiver of an allocation limitation, or a similar activity, applicable to a transaction pursuant to the terms of an agreement governing an investment fund, to constitute control of investment decisions of the investment fund or decisions relating to entities in which the investment fund is invested.

# Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person, makes an investment in an investment fund as a limited partner. The investment confers membership on an advisory board of the investment fund. The investment fund holds 100 percent of the ownership interests in a pilot program U.S. business. Corporation A will have the right to approve decisions made by the general partner with respect to the use and development of the critical technologies produced by the pilot program U.S. business. This transaction is a pilot program covered transaction.

# Example 2.
Corporation A, a foreign person, makes an investment in an investment fund as a limited partner. The investment confers membership on an advisory board of the investment fund. The investment fund holds 100 percent of the ownership interests in a pilot program U.S. business. Corporation A is not the general partner that wholly manages the investment fund. Corporation A lacks any ability to control the investment fund or its decisions. As a member of the advisory board, Corporation A has the right to vote on the compensation of the general partner and the right to vote on the dismissal of the general partner for cause, but does not have the power to determine either of these matters unilaterally. Assuming no other relevant facts, this transaction is not a pilot program covered transaction with respect to Corporation A.
§ 801.305
Exception for air carriers.
No investment involving an air carrier, as defined in section 40102(a)(2) of title 49, United States Code, that holds a certificate issued under section 41102 of that title shall be a pilot program covered transaction.
§ 801.306
Timing rule for contingent equity interests.
The provisions set forth in § 800.304 of this chapter regarding convertible voting instruments shall apply to contingent equity interests.

# Subpart D—Mandatory Declarations Under the Pilot Program
§ 801.401
Mandatory declarations under the pilot program.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the parties to a pilot program covered transaction shall submit to the Committee a declaration with information regarding the transaction in accordance with § 801.402.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, parties to a pilot program covered transaction may elect to submit a written notice pursuant to subpart E of this part regarding the transaction instead of a declaration. Parties to a pilot program covered transaction that have filed with the Committee a written notice regarding a transaction pursuant to § 801.501 may not submit to the Committee a declaration regarding the same transaction or a substantially similar transaction without the approval of the Staff Chairperson.
(c) Parties shall submit to the Committee the declaration required pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, or a written notice pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, no later than:
(1) November 10, 2018, or promptly thereafter, if the completion date of the transaction is between November 10, 2018 and December 25, 2018; or
(2) 45 days before the completion date of the transaction, if the completion date of the transaction is after December 25, 2018.
(d) Section 800.204(e) of this chapter shall not apply with respect to any pilot program covered transaction for which the Committee completes all action under section 721 pursuant to § 801.407(a)(4).
§ 801.402
Procedures for declarations under the pilot program.
(a) A party or parties shall submit a declaration of a pilot program covered transaction pursuant to § 801.401 by submitting electronically the information set out in § 801.403, including the certifications required thereunder, to the Staff Chairperson in accordance with the submission instructions on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website at
https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/international/the-committee-on-foreign-investment-in-the-united-states-cfius.
(b) No communications other than those described in paragraph (a) of this section shall constitute the submission of a declaration for purposes of section 721.
(c) Information and other documentary material submitted to the Committee pursuant to this section shall be considered to have been filed with the President or the President's designee for purposes of section 721(c).
(d) Persons filing a declaration shall, during the time that the matter is pending before the Committee, promptly advise the Staff Chairperson of any material changes in plans, facts, or circumstances addressed in the declaration, and any material change in information required to be provided to the Committee under § 801.406(a)(3). Such changes shall become part of the declaration filed by such persons under § 801.401, and the certification required under § 801.405(c) shall apply to such changes.
§ 801.403
Contents of declarations under the pilot program.
(a) The party or parties submitting a declaration of a pilot program covered transaction pursuant to § 801.401 shall provide the information set out in this section, which must be accurate and complete with respect to all parties and to the transaction. (See also paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.)
(b) If fewer than all the parties to a transaction submit a declaration, the Committee may, at its discretion, request that the parties to the transaction file a written notice of the transaction under § 801.501, if the Staff Chairperson determines that the information provided by the submitting party or parties in the declaration is insufficient for the Committee to assess the transaction.
(c) Subject to paragraph (e) of this section, a declaration submitted pursuant to § 801.401 shall describe or provide, as applicable:
(1) The name of the foreign person(s) and pilot program U.S. business(es) that are parties to, or, in applicable cases, the subject of the transaction, as well as the name, telephone number, and email address of the primary point of contact for each party.
(2) The following information regarding the transaction in question, including:
(i) A brief description of the nature of the transaction and its structure (e.g., share purchase, merger, asset purchase);
(ii) The percentage of voting interest acquired;
(iii) The percentage of economic interest acquired;
(iv) Whether the pilot program U.S. business has multiple classes of ownership;
(v) The total transaction value in U.S. dollars;
(vi) The expected closing date; and
(vii) All sources of financing for the transaction.
(3) The following:
(i) A statement as to whether a party to the transaction is stipulating that the transaction is a pilot program covered transaction and a description of the basis for the stipulation; and
(ii) A statement as to whether a party to the transaction is stipulating that the transaction could result in control of a pilot program U.S. business by a foreign person or that the transaction is a foreign government-controlled transaction and, in each case, a description of the basis for the stipulation.
(4) A statement as to whether the foreign person will acquire any of the following in the pilot program U.S. business:
(i) Access to any material nonpublic technical information in the possession of the pilot program U.S. business, and if so, a brief explanation of the type of access and type of information;
(ii) Membership, observer rights, or nomination rights as set forth in § 801.209(b), and if so, a statement as to the composition of the board or other body both before and after the completion date of the transaction;
(iii) Any involvement, other than through voting shares, in substantive decisionmaking of the pilot program U.S. business regarding the use, development, acquisition, or release of critical technologies and if so, a statement as to the involvement in such substantive decisionmaking; or
(iv) Any rights that could result in the foreign person acquiring control of the pilot program U.S. business and, if so, a brief explanation of these rights.
(5) The following information regarding the pilot program U.S. business:
(i) Website address;
(ii) Principal place of business;
(iii) Place of incorporation or organization; and
(iv) A list of the addresses or geographic coordinates (to at least the fourth decimal) of all locations of the pilot program U.S. business, including the pilot program U.S. business's headquarters, facilities, and operating locations.
(6) With respect to the pilot program U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction and any entity of which that pilot program U.S. business is a parent, a brief summary of their respective business activities, as, for example, set forth in annual reports, and the product or service categories of each, including the applicable six-digit NAICS codes.
(7) A statement as to which critical technology or critical technologies the pilot program U.S. business and its subsidiaries produce, design, test, manufacture, fabricate, or develop, and the relevant six-digit NAICS code or codes, as applicable under §§ 801.212 and 801.213, for each critical technology listed. This statement shall include a description (which may group similar items into general product categories) of the items and a list of any relevant Export Control Classification Numbers under the EAR and United States Munitions List categories under the ITAR, and, if applicable, identify whether any are specially designed and prepared nuclear equipment, parts and components, materials, software, and technology covered by 10 CFR part 810, nuclear facilities, equipment, and materials covered by 10 CFR part 110 or select agents and toxins covered by 7 CFR part 331, 9 CFR part 121 or 42 CFR part 73.
(8) A statement as to whether the pilot program U.S. business has any
contracts (including any subcontracts, if known) that are currently in effect or were in effect within the past three years with any U.S. Government agency or component, or in the past 10 years if the contract included access to personally identifiable information of U.S. Government personnel.
(9) A statement as to whether the pilot program U.S. business has any contracts (including any subcontracts, if known) that are currently in effect or were in effect within the past five years involving information, technology, or data that is classified under Executive Order 12958, as amended.
(10) A statement as to whether the pilot program U.S. business has received any grant or other funding from the Department of Defense or the Department of Energy, or participated in or collaborated on any defense or energy program or product involving one or more critical technologies or pilot program industries within the past five years.
(11) A statement as to whether the pilot program U.S. business participated in a Defense Production Act Title III Program (50 U.S.C. 4501
et seq.
) within the past seven years.
(12) A statement as to whether the pilot program U.S. business has received or placed priority rated contracts or orders under the Defense Priorities and Allocations System (DPAS) regulation (15 CFR part 700), and the level(s) of priority of such contracts or orders (DX or DO) within the past three years.
(13) The name of the ultimate parent of the foreign person.
(14) A complete organizational chart, including, without limitation, information that identifies the name, principal place of business and place of incorporation or other legal organization (for entities), and nationality (for individuals) for each of the following:
(i) The immediate parent, the ultimate parent, and each intermediate parent, if any, of each foreign person that is a party to the transaction;
(ii) Where the ultimate parent is a private company, the ultimate owner(s) of such parent; and
(iii) Where the ultimate parent is a public company, any shareholder with an interest of greater than five percent in such parent.
(15) Information regarding all foreign government ownership in the foreign person's ownership structure, including nationality and percentage of ownership, as well as any rights that a foreign government holds, directly or indirectly, with respect to the foreign person.
(16) With respect to the foreign person that is party to the transaction and any of its parents, as applicable, a brief summary of their respective business activities, as, for example, set forth in annual reports.
(17) A statement as to whether any party to the transaction has been party to another transaction previously notified or submitted to the Committee, and the case number assigned by the Committee regarding such transaction(s).
(18) A statement (including relevant jurisdiction and criminal case law number or legal citation) as to whether the pilot program U.S. business, the foreign person, or any parent or subsidiary of the foreign person has been convicted in the last ten years of a crime in any jurisdiction.
(d) Each party submitting a declaration shall provide a certification of the information contained in the declaration consistent with § 800.202 of this chapter. A sample certification may be found on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website at
https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/international/the-committee-on-foreign-investment-in-the-united-states-cfius.
(e) A party that offers a stipulation pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section acknowledges that the Committee and the President are entitled to rely on such stipulation in determining whether the transaction is a pilot program covered transaction, a transaction that could result in control of a pilot program U.S. business by a foreign person, or a foreign government-controlled transaction for the purposes of section 721 and all authorities thereunder, and waives the right to challenge any such determination. Neither the Committee nor the President is bound by any such stipulation, nor does any such stipulation limit the
ability of the Committee or the President to act on any authority provided under section 721 with respect to any pilot program covered transaction.
§ 801.404
Beginning of thirty-day period.
(a) Upon receipt of a declaration submitted pursuant to § 801.401, the Staff Chairperson shall promptly inspect the declaration and shall promptly notify in writing all parties to a transaction that have submitted a declaration that:
(1) The Staff Chairperson has accepted the declaration and circulated the declaration to the Committee, and the date on which the assessment described in paragraph (b) of this section begins; or
(2) The Staff Chairperson has determined not to accept the declaration and circulate the declaration to the Committee because the declaration is incomplete, and provide an explanation of the material respects in which the declaration is incomplete.
(b) A thirty-day period for assessment of a pilot program covered transaction that is the subject of a declaration shall commence on the date on which the declaration is received by the Committee from the Staff Chairperson. Such period shall end no later than the thirtieth day after it has commenced, or if the thirtieth day is not a business day, no later than the next business day after the thirtieth day.
§ 801.405
General.
(a) In assessing a pilot program covered transaction submitted pursuant to § 801.401, the Committee should consider the factors specified in section 721(f) and, as appropriate, require parties to provide to the Committee the information necessary to consider such factors. The Committee's assessment shall examine, as appropriate, whether:
(1) The transaction constitutes a pilot program covered transaction and whether it could result in foreign government control over a pilot program U.S. business;
(2) There is credible evidence to support a belief that any foreign person exercising control of the pilot program U.S. business or exercising rights related to a pilot program covered investment might take action that threatens to impair the national security of the United States; and
(3) Provisions of law, other than section 721 and the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, provide adequate and appropriate authority to protect the national security of the United States with respect to the risk arising from the pilot program covered transaction.
(b) During the thirty-day assessment period, the Staff Chairperson may invite the parties to a pilot program covered transaction to attend a meeting with the Committee staff to discuss and clarify issues pertaining to the transaction.
(c) If the Committee notifies the parties to a transaction that have submitted a declaration pursuant to § 801.401 that the Committee intends to complete all action under section 721 with respect to that transaction, each party that has submitted additional information subsequent to the original declaration shall file a certification as described in § 800.202 of this chapter. A sample certification may be found on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website at
https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/international/the-committee-on-foreign-investment-in-the-united-states-cfius.
(d) If a party fails to provide the certification required under paragraph (c) of this section, the Committee may, at its discretion, take any of the actions under § 801.407(a).
§ 801.406
Rejection, disposition, or withdrawal of declarations.
(a) The Committee, acting through the Staff Chairperson, may:
(1) Reject any declaration that does not comply with § 801.403 and so inform the parties promptly in writing;
(2) Reject any declaration at any time, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if, after the declaration has been submitted and before the Committee has taken one of the actions specified in § 801.407(a):
(i) There is a material change in the pilot program covered transaction as to which a declaration has been submitted; or
(ii) Information comes to light that contradicts material information provided in the declaration by the party (or parties); or
(3) Reject any declaration at any time after the declaration has been submitted, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if the party (or parties) that submitted the declaration does not provide follow-up information requested by the Staff Chairperson within two business days of the request, or within a longer time frame if the party (or parties) so request in writing and the Staff Chairperson grants that request in writing.
(b) The Staff Chairperson shall notify the parties that submitted a declaration when the Committee has found that the transaction that is the subject of a declaration is not a pilot program covered transaction.
(c) Parties to a transaction that have submitted a declaration pursuant to § 801.401(a) may request in writing, at any time prior to the Committee taking action under § 801.407(a), that such declaration be withdrawn. Such request shall be directed to the Staff Chairperson and shall state the reasons why the request is being made and state whether the transaction that is the subject of the declaration is being fully and permanently abandoned. An official of the Department of the Treasury will promptly advise the parties to the transaction in writing of the Committee's decision.
(d) The Committee may not request or recommend that a declaration be withdrawn and refiled, except to permit parties to a pilot program covered transaction to correct material errors or omissions in the declaration submitted with respect to that pilot program covered transaction.
(e) A party (or parties) may not submit more than one declaration for the same or a substantially similar transaction without approval from the Staff Chairperson.
§ 801.407
Committee actions.
(a) Upon receiving a declaration submitted pursuant to § 801.401 with respect to a pilot program covered transaction, the Committee may, at the discretion of the Committee:
(1) Request that the parties to the transaction file a written notice pursuant to subpart E;
(2) Inform the parties to the transaction that the Committee is not able to complete action under section 721 with respect to the transaction on the basis of the declaration and that the parties may file a written notice under part 800 to seek written notification from the Committee that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 with respect to the transaction;
(3) Initiate a unilateral review of the transaction under § 801.504; or
(4) Notify the parties in writing that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 with respect to the transaction.
(b) The Committee shall take action under paragraph (a) within the time period set forth in § 801.404(b).
§ 801.408
Confidentiality.
The provisions of § 800.702 of this chapter shall apply to information submitted to the Committee through a declaration.
§ 801.409
Penalties.
(a) Any person who fails to comply with the requirements of § 801.401 may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty not to exceed the value of the pilot program covered transaction.
(b) The provisions of § 800.801(a), (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h) shall apply to a declaration submitted to the Committee pursuant to § 801.401.

# Subpart E—Notice of Pilot Program Covered Transaction
§ 801.501
Notice of pilot program covered transactions.
Parties to a pilot program covered transaction may notify the Committee of the transaction by filing with the Committee a written notice pursuant to § 800.401(a) of this chapter and this subpart.
§ 801.502
Applicability of part 800.
(a) The provisions set forth in Subpart D—Notice; Subpart E—Committee Procedures: Review and Investigation; Subpart F—Finality of Action; Subpart
G—Provision and Handling of Information; and Subpart H—Penalties of Part 800 regarding covered transactions shall apply to any pilot program covered transaction notified to the Committee.
(b) Section 800.204(e) shall not apply with respect to any pilot program covered investment for which the Committee completes all action under section 721 pursuant to § 800.504 or § 800.506(d) of this chapter.
§ 801.503
Additional contents of written notice.
(a) In addition to the information required pursuant to § 800.402(c), a written notice of a pilot program covered transaction filed pursuant to § 800.401(a) of this chapter shall include the following information:
(1) A statement as to whether a party to the transaction is stipulating that the transaction is a pilot program covered transaction and a description of the basis for the stipulation;
(2) A statement as to whether the foreign person will acquire any of the following in the pilot program U.S. business:
(i) Access to any material nonpublic technical information in the possession of the pilot program U.S. business, and if so, a brief explanation of the type of access and type of information;
(ii) Membership, observer rights, or nomination rights as set forth in § 801.209(b), and if so, a statement as to the composition of the board or other body both before and after the transaction; or
(iii) Any involvement, other than through voting shares, in substantive decisionmaking of the United States business regarding the use, development, acquisition, or release of critical technologies and if so, a statement as to the involvement in such substantive decisionmaking; and
(3) With respect to the pilot program U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction, a statement as to which critical technology or critical technologies the pilot program U.S. business and its subsidiaries produce, design, test, manufacture, fabricate, or develop, and the relevant six-digit NAICS code, as applicable under §§ 801.212 and 801.213, for each critical technology listed. This statement shall include a description (which may group similar items into general product categories) of the items and a list of any relevant Export Control Classification Numbers under the EAR and United States Munitions List categories under the ITAR, and, if applicable, identify whether any are specially designed and prepared nuclear equipment, parts and components, materials, software, and technology covered by 10 CFR part 810, nuclear facilities, equipment, and materials covered by 10 CFR part 110 or select agents and toxins covered by 7 CFR part 331, 9 CFR part 121 or 42 CFR part 73.
(b) If the party (or parties) stipulate pursuant to § 800.402(n) of this chapter that the pilot program covered transaction that is the subject of the written notice could result in a covered transaction under part 800, the party (or parties) are not required to include in the written notice the information required by this section.
(c) A party that offers a stipulation acknowledges that the Committee and the President are entitled to rely on such stipulation in determining whether the transaction is a pilot program covered transaction, a transaction that could result in control of a pilot program U.S. business by a foreign person, or a foreign government-controlled transaction for the purposes of section 721 and all authorities thereunder, and waives the right to challenge any such determination. Neither the Committee nor the President is bound by any such stipulation, nor does any such stipulation limit the ability of the Committee or the President to act on any authority provided under section 721 with respect to any pilot program covered transaction.
§ 801.504
Agency notice of pilot program covered transactions.
Any member of the Committee, or his designee at or above the Under Secretary or equivalent level, may file an agency notice to the Committee through the Staff Chairperson regarding a pilot program covered transaction for which no declaration has been submitted pursuant to § 801.401 and no written notice has been filed under § 801.501(a) if that member has
reason to believe that the transaction is a pilot program covered transaction and may raise national security considerations. Notices filed under this paragraph are deemed accepted upon their receipt by the Staff Chairperson.

# Subpart F—Implementation of Certain Authority Provided In FIRRMA
§ 801.601
Implementation of certain authority regarding covered transactions.
Paragraphs (4)(A)(ii) (solely with respect to clauses (iii)(II) and (iv)(II) (solely with respect to an investment described in section 721(a)(4)(B)(iii)(II)) of subparagraph (B)), (4)(B)(iii)(II), (4)(B)(iv)(II) (solely with respect to an investment described in section 721(a)(4)(B)(iii)(II)), (4)(D)(i)(I), 4(D)(i)(II), (4)(D)(i)(III)(bb), (4)(D)(ii)(I)(bb), (4)(D)(ii)(II), (4)(D)(iii)(I), (4)(D)(iv), and (4)(D)(v) of subsection (a) of section 721 shall take effect on the pilot program effective date solely with respect to any pilot program covered transaction. Paragraph (4)(A)(ii) (solely with respect to clauses (iv)(I) and (v) of subparagraph (B)) of subsection (a) of section 721 shall take effect on the pilot program effective date.
§ 801.602
Implementation of certain authority regarding mandatory declarations.
Paragraphs (1)(C)(v)(I), (II), (III), (IV)(aa), (IV)(cc), (IV)(dd), (IV)(ee), (IV)(ff), and (IV)(gg) of subsection (b) of section 721 shall take effect on the pilot program effective date solely with respect to any pilot program covered transaction.
Pt. 801, Annex A

# Annex A to Part 801—Industries
Aircraft Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 336411
Aircraft Engine and Engine Parts Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 336412
Alumina Refining and Primary Aluminum Production
NAICS Code: 331313
Ball and Roller Bearing Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 332991
Computer Storage Device Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 334112
Electronic Computer Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 334111
Guided Missile and Space Vehicle Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 336414
Guided Missile and Space Vehicle Propulsion Unit and Propulsion Unit Parts Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 336415
Military Armored Vehicle, Tank, and Tank Component Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 336992
Nuclear Electric Power Generation
NAICS Code: 221113
Optical Instrument and Lens Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 333314
Other Basic Inorganic Chemical Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 325180
Other Guided Missile and Space Vehicle Parts and Auxiliary Equipment Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 336419
Petrochemical Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 325110
Powder Metallurgy Part Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 332117
Power, Distribution, and Specialty Transformer Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 335311
Primary Battery Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 335912
Radio and Television Broadcasting and Wireless Communications Equipment Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 334220
Research and Development in Nanotechnology
NAICS Code: 541713
Research and Development in Biotechnology (except Nanobiotechnology)
NAICS Code: 541714
Secondary Smelting and Alloying of Aluminum
NAICS Code: 331314
Search, Detection, Navigation, Guidance, Aeronautical, and Nautical System and Instrument Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 334511
Semiconductor and Related Device Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 334413
Semiconductor Machinery Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 333242
Storage Battery Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 335911
Telephone Apparatus Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 334210
Turbine and Turbine Generator Set Units Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 333611
Pt. 802

# PART 802—REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS BY FOREIGN PERSONS INVOLVING REAL ESTATE IN THE UNITED STATES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
802.101
Scope.
802.102
Risk-based analysis.
802.103
Effect on other law.
802.104
Applicability rule.
802.105
Rules of construction and interpretation.

# Subpart B—Definitions
802.201
Business day.
802.202
Certification.
802.203
Close proximity.
802.204
Committee; Chairperson of the Committee; Staff Chairperson.
802.205
Completion date.
802.206
Concession.
802.207
Contingent equity interest.
802.208
Control.
802.209
Conversion.
802.210
Covered port.
802.211
Covered real estate.
802.212
Covered real estate transaction.
802.213
Entity.
802.214
Excepted real estate foreign state.
802.215
Excepted real estate investor.
802.216
Excepted real estate transaction.
802.217
Extended range.
802.218
Foreign entity.
802.219
Foreign government.
802.220
Foreign national.
802.221
Foreign person.
802.222
Hold.
802.223
Housing unit.
802.224
Investment fund.
802.225
Lead agency.
802.226
Lease.
802.227
Military installation.
802.228
Minimum excepted ownership.
802.229
Parent.
802.230
Party to a transaction.
802.231
Person.
802.232
Principal place of business.
802.233
Property right.
802.234
Purchase.
802.235
Real estate.
802.236
Section 721.
802.237
Transaction.
802.238
United States.
802.239
Urban cluster.
802.240
Urbanized area.
802.241
U.S. business.
802.242
U.S. national.
802.243
U.S. public entity.
802.244
Voting interest.

# Subpart C—Coverage
802.301
Transactions that are covered real estate transactions.
802.302
Transactions that are not covered real estate transactions.
802.303
Lending transactions.
802.304
Timing rule for a contingent equity interest.

# Subpart D—Declarations
802.401
Procedures for declarations.
802.402
Contents of declarations.
802.403
Beginning of 30-day assessment period.
802.404
Rejection, disposition, or withdrawal of declarations.
802.405
Committee actions.

# Subpart E—Notices
802.501
Procedures for notices.
802.502
Contents of voluntary notices.
802.503
Beginning of 45-day review period.
802.504
Deferral, rejection, or disposition of certain voluntary notices.
802.505
Determination of whether to undertake an investigation.
802.506
Determination not to undertake an investigation.
802.507
Commencement of investigation.
802.508
Completion or termination of investigation and report to the President.
802.509
Withdrawal of notices.

# Subpart F—Committee Procedures
802.601
General.
802.602
Role of the Secretary of Labor.
802.603
Materiality.
802.604
Tolling of deadlines during lapse in appropriations.

# Subpart G—Finality of Action
802.701
Finality of actions under section 721.

# Subpart H—Provision and Handling of Information
802.801
Obligation of parties or other persons to provide information.
802.802
Confidentiality.

# Subpart I—Penalties and Damages
802.901
Penalties and damages.
802.902
Effect of lack of compliance.

# Subpart J—Foreign National Security Investment Review Regimes
802.1001
Determinations.
802.1002
Effect of determinations.

# Subpart K—Filing Fees
802.1101
Amount of fee.
802.1102
Timing of payment.
802.1103
Valuation.
802.1104
Manner of payment.
802.1105
Refunds.
802.1106
Waiver.
802.1107
Refilings.
802.1108
Rejection of voluntary notice.
Appendix A to Part 802—List of Military Installations and Other U.S. Government Sites.

# Authority:
50 U.S.C. 4565; E.O. 11858, as amended, 73 FR 4677.

# Source:
85 FR 3166, Jan. 17, 2020, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 802.101
Scope.
(a) Section 721 of title VII of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4565) authorizes the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States to review transactions involving real estate that meet specified criteria, which are referred to in this part as “covered real estate transactions” and defined at § 802.212, and to mitigate any risk to the national security of the United States that arises as a result of such transactions. Section 721 also authorizes the President to suspend or prohibit any covered real estate transaction when, in the President's judgment, there is credible evidence that leads the President to believe that the foreign person engaging in a covered real estate transaction might take action that threatens to impair the national security of the United States, and when provisions of law other than section 721 and the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) do not, in the judgment of the President, provide adequate and appropriate authority for the President to protect the national security of the United States in the matter before the President.
(b) This part implements regulations pertaining to covered real estate transactions. Regulations pertaining to “covered transactions” are addressed in part 800 of this chapter.
§ 802.102
Risk-based analysis.
Any determination of the Committee with respect to a covered real estate transaction, to suspend, refer to the President, or to negotiate, enter into or impose, or enforce any agreement or condition under section 721 shall be based on a risk-based analysis, conducted by the Committee, of the effects on the national security of the United States of the covered real estate transaction. Any such risk-based analysis shall include credible evidence demonstrating the risk and an assessment of the threat, vulnerabilities, and consequences to national security related to the transaction. For purposes of this part, any such analysis of risk shall include and be informed by consideration of the following elements:
(a) The
threat,
which is a function of the intent and capability of a foreign person to take action to impair the national security of the United States;
(b) The
vulnerabilities,
which are the extent to which the nature of the covered real estate presents susceptibility to impairment of national security; and
(c) The
consequences to national security,
which are the potential effects on national security that could reasonably result from the exploitation of the vulnerabilities by the threat actor.
§ 802.103
Effect on other law.
Nothing in this part shall be construed as altering or affecting any other authority, process, regulation, investigation, enforcement measure, or review provided by or established under any other provision of federal law, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, or any other authority of the President or the Congress under the Constitution of the United States.
§ 802.104
Applicability rule.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and otherwise in this part, the regulations in this part apply from February 13, 2020.
(b) The regulations in this part adopted by the final rule published in the
Federal Register
on January 17, 2020 (85 FR 3158), shall apply to any transaction for which:
(1) The completion date was on or after February 13, 2020, and before September 22, 2023; or
(2) The parties to the transaction have executed a binding written agreement, or other binding document, establishing the material terms of the transaction on or after February 13, 2020, and before September 22, 2023.
(c) The regulations in this part as amended by the final rule published in the
Federal Register
on August 23, 2023 (88 FR 57348), shall apply to any transaction for which:
(1) The completion date was on or after September 22, 2023, and before December 9, 2024; or
(2) The parties to the transaction have executed a binding written agreement, or other binding document, establishing the material terms of the transaction on or after September 22, 2023, and before December 9, 2024.
(d) The regulations in this part as amended by the final rule published in the
Federal Register
on November 7, 2024 (89 FR 88133), shall apply to any transaction for which:
(1) The completion date was on or after December 9, 2024; or
(2) The parties to the transaction have executed a binding written agreement, or other binding document, establishing the material terms of the transaction on or after December 9, 2024.
[89 FR 88133, Nov. 7, 2024; 89 FR 90592, Nov. 18, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 93185, Nov. 26, 2024]

# Editorial Note:
At 89 FR 93185, Nov. 26, 2024, § 802.104 was amended by adding paragraph (c). However, the amendment could not be incorporated because paragraph (c) already exists.
§ 802.105
Rules of construction and interpretation.
(a) The examples included in this part are provided for informational purposes and should not be construed to alter the meaning of the text of the regulations in this part.
(b) As used in this part, the term “including” means “including but not limited to.”

# Subpart B—Definitions
§ 802.201
Business day.
The term
business day
means Monday through Friday, except the legal public holidays specified in 5 U.S.C. 6103, any day declared to be a holiday by federal statute or executive order, or any day with respect to which the U.S. Office of Personnel Management has announced that Federal agencies in the Washington, DC, area are closed. For purposes of calculating any deadline imposed by this part triggered by the submission of a party to a transaction under § 802.501(i), any submissions received after 5 p.m. Eastern Time are deemed to be submitted on the next business day.

# Note 1 to § 802.201:
See § 802.604 regarding the tolling of deadlines during a lapse in appropriations.
§ 802.202
Certification.
(a) The term
certification
means a written statement signed by the chief executive officer or other duly authorized designee of a party filing a notice, declaration, or information, certifying under the penalties provided in the False Statements Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (18 U.S.C. 1001) that the notice, declaration, or information filed:
(1) Fully complies with the requirements of section 721, the regulations in this part, and any agreement or condition entered into with the Committee or any member of the Committee, and
(2) Is accurate and complete in all material respects, as it relates to:
(i) The transaction; and
(ii) The party providing the certification, including its parents, subsidiaries, and any other related entities described in the notice, declaration, or information.
(b) For purposes of this section, a
duly authorized designee
is:
(1) In the case of a partnership, any general partner thereof;
(2) In the case of a corporation, any officer or director thereof;
(3) In the case of any entity lacking partners, officers, and directors, any individual within the organization exercising executive functions similar to those of a general partner of a partnership or an officer or director of a corporation; and
(4) In the case of an individual, such individual or his or her legal representative.
(c) In each case described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section,
such designee must possess actual authority to make the certification on behalf of the party filing a notice, declaration, or information.

# Note 1 to § 802.202:
A sample certification may be found at the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
See
§§ 802.402(f) and 802.502(k) regarding filing procedures for transactions in which a U.S. public entity is a party to the transaction.
§ 802.203
Close proximity.
The term
close proximity
means, with respect to a military installation or another facility or property of the U.S. Government identified in this part, the area that extends outward one mile from the boundary of such military installation, facility, or property.
§ 802.204
Committee; Chairperson of the Committee; Staff Chairperson.
The term
Committee
means the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States. The
Chairperson of the Committee
is the Secretary of the Treasury. The
Staff Chairperson
of the Committee is the Department of the Treasury official so designated by the Secretary of the Treasury or by the Secretary's designee.
§ 802.205
Completion date.
The term
completion date
means, with respect to a transaction, the earliest date upon which the purchase, lease, or concession is made legally effective, or a change in rights that could result in a covered real estate transaction occurs.

# Note 1 to § 802.205:
See § 802.304 regarding the timing rule for a contingent equity interest.
§ 802.206
Concession.
The term
concession
means an arrangement, other than a purchase or lease, whereby a U.S. public entity grants a right to use real estate for the purpose of developing or operating infrastructure for a covered port. This term includes the assignment of a concession, in whole or in part, by the party who is not the U.S. public entity.
§ 802.207
Contingent equity interest.
The term
contingent equity interest
means a financial instrument that currently does not constitute an equity interest but is convertible into, or provides the right to acquire, an equity interest upon the occurrence of a contingency or defined event.
§ 802.208
Control.
(a) The term
control
means the power, direct or indirect, whether or not exercised, through the ownership of a majority or a dominant minority of the total outstanding voting interest in an entity, board representation, proxy voting, a special share, contractual arrangements, formal or informal arrangements to act in concert, or other means, to determine, direct, or decide important matters affecting an entity; in particular, but without limitation, to determine, direct, take, reach, or cause decisions regarding the following matters, or any other similarly important matters affecting an entity:
(1) The sale, lease, mortgage, pledge, or other transfer of any of the tangible or intangible principal assets of the entity, whether or not in the ordinary course of business;
(2) The reorganization, merger, or dissolution of the entity;
(3) The closing, relocation, or substantial alteration of the production, operational, or research and development facilities of the entity;
(4) Major expenditures or investments, issuances of equity or debt, or dividend payments by the entity, or approval of the operating budget of the entity;
(5) The selection of new business lines or ventures that the entity will pursue;
(6) The entry into, termination, or non-fulfillment by the entity of significant contracts;
(7) The policies or procedures of the entity governing the treatment of non-public technical, financial, or other proprietary information of the entity;
(8) The appointment or dismissal of officers or senior managers or, in the case of a partnership, the general partner;
(9) The appointment or dismissal of employees with access to critical technology or other sensitive technology or classified U.S. Government information; or
(10) The amendment of the Articles of Incorporation, constituent agreement,
or other organizational documents of the entity with respect to the matters described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section.
(b) In examining questions of control in situations where more than one foreign person has an ownership interest in an entity, consideration will be given to factors such as whether the foreign persons are related or have formal or informal arrangements to act in concert, whether they are agencies or instrumentalities of the national or subnational governments of a single foreign state, and whether a given foreign person and another person that has an ownership interest in the entity are both controlled by any of the national or subnational governments of a single foreign state.
(c) The following minority shareholder protections shall not in themselves be deemed to confer control over an entity:
(1) The power to prevent the sale or pledge of all or substantially all of the assets of an entity or a voluntary filing for bankruptcy or liquidation;
(2) The power to prevent an entity from entering into contracts with majority investors or their affiliates;
(3) The power to prevent an entity from guaranteeing the obligations of majority investors or their affiliates;
(4) The right to purchase an additional interest in an entity to prevent the dilution of an investor's pro rata interest in that entity in the event that the entity issues additional instruments conveying interests in the entity;
(5) The power to prevent the change of existing legal rights or preferences of the particular class of stock held by minority investors, as provided in the relevant corporate documents governing such shares; and
(6) The power to prevent the amendment of the Articles of Incorporation, constituent agreement, or other organizational documents of an entity with respect to the matters described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.
(d) The Committee will consider, on a case-by-case basis, whether minority shareholder protections other than those listed in paragraph (c) of this section do not confer control over an entity.

# Note 1 to § 802.208:
This definition is included herein for the purpose of determining whether a foreign person may be involved in a covered real estate transaction. For additional information, see the examples provided at § 800.208, as relevant.
§ 802.209
Conversion.
The term
conversion
means the exercise of a right inherent in the ownership or holding of a particular financial instrument to exchange any such instrument for an equity interest.
§ 802.210
Covered port.
(a) The term
covered port
means, subject to paragraph (b) of this section, any port that is listed:
(1) In the Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration's annual final enplanement data as a “large hub airport,” as that term is defined in 49 U.S.C. 40102;
(2) In the Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration's annual final all-cargo landed weight data as an airport with annual aggregate all-cargo landed weight greater than 1.24 billion pounds;
(3) By the Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration as a “joint use airport,” as that term is defined in 49 U.S.C. 47175;
(4) By the Department of Transportation, Maritime Administration as a commercial strategic seaport within the National Port Readiness Network; or
(5) By the Department of Transportation, Bureau of Transportation Statistics as a top 25 tonnage, container, or dry bulk port.
(b) For purposes of determining whether a port constitutes a covered port under paragraph (a) of this section,
(1) Any port that is added after February 13, 2020 to any of the lists described in paragraph (a) of this section shall be deemed not to be in effect as a covered port until 30 days after the port's addition to the relevant list maintained by the Department of Transportation; and
(2) In the context of a particular transaction, the covered ports in effect on the day immediately prior to, the
earlier of, the date on which the parties sign a written document establishing the material terms of the transaction, or the completion date of the transaction, shall apply.

# Note 1 to § 802.210:
The lists described in paragraph (a) of this section are published on the Department of Transportation website.
§ 802.211
Covered real estate.
The term
covered real estate
means real estate that:
(a) Is, is located within, or will function as part of, a covered port; or
(b) Is located within:
(1) Close proximity of any military installation described in § 802.227(b) to (o), or another facility or property of the U.S. Government, in each case as identified in the list at part 1 or part 2 of appendix A to this part;
(2) The extended range of any military installation described in § 802.227(h), (k), or (m), as identified in the list at part 2 of appendix A to this part;
(3) Any county or other geographic area identified in connection with any military installation described in § 802.227(a), as identified in the list at part 3 of appendix A to this part; or
(4) Any part of a military installation described in § 802.227(p), as identified at part 4 of appendix A to this part, to the extent located within the limits of the territorial sea of the United States.
§ 802.212
Covered real estate transaction.
The term
covered real estate transaction
means:
(a) Other than an excepted real estate transaction, any purchase or lease by, or concession to, a foreign person of covered real estate, that affords the foreign person at least three of the property rights under § 802.233;
(b) Other than an excepted real estate transaction, any purchase or lease by, or concession to, a foreign person of covered real estate, that, through a subsequent change in the rights that a foreign person has with respect to that covered real estate, results in the foreign person having at least three of the property rights under § 802.233; or
(c) Any other transaction, transfer, agreement, or arrangement, the structure of which is designed or intended to evade or circumvent the application of section 721 as it relates to real estate transactions.

# Note 1 to § 802.212:
Any transaction, transfer, agreement, or arrangement described in this section that arises pursuant to a bankruptcy proceeding or other form of default on debt is a covered real estate transaction. See also § 802.303 for the treatment of certain lending transactions.
§ 802.213
Entity.
The term
entity
means any branch, partnership, group or sub-group, association, estate, trust, corporation or division of a corporation, or organization (whether or not organized under the laws of any State or foreign state); assets (whether or not organized as a separate legal entity) operated by any one of the foregoing as a business undertaking in a particular location or for particular products or services; and any government (including a foreign national or subnational government, the U.S. Government, a subnational government within the United States, and any of their respective departments, agencies, or instrumentalities).
§ 802.214
Excepted real estate foreign state.
The term
excepted real estate foreign state
means, until February 13, 2023, a foreign state that meets the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section, and beginning on February 13, 2023, a foreign state that meets both the criteria in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section:
(a) Is identified by the Committee as an eligible foreign state and
(b) Is a foreign state for which the Committee has made a determination under § 802.1001(a).

# Note 1 to § 802.214:
The name of each foreign state identified by the Committee as an eligible foreign state will be available at the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website. See § 802.1001(c) regarding the publication of a notice in the
Federal Register
of a determination under § 802.1001(a). The list of excepted real estate foreign states will also be available at the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
[85 FR 3166, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 732, Feb. 4, 2022]
§ 802.215
Excepted real estate investor.
(a) The term
excepted real estate investor
means a foreign person who is, as of the completion date of the transaction and subject to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section:
(1) A foreign national who is a national of one or more excepted real estate foreign states and is not also a national of any foreign state that is not an excepted real estate foreign state;
(2) A foreign government of an excepted real estate foreign state; or
(3) An entity that meets each of the following conditions with respect to itself and each of its parents (if any):
(i) Such entity is organized under the laws of an excepted real estate foreign state or in the United States;
(ii) Such entity has its principal place of business in an excepted real estate foreign state or in the United States;
(iii) Seventy-five percent or more of the members and 75 percent or more of the observers of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of such entity are:
(A) U.S. nationals; or
(B) Nationals of one or more excepted real estate foreign states who are not also nationals of any foreign state that is not an excepted real estate foreign state;
(iv) Any foreign person that individually, and each foreign person that is part of a group of foreign persons that in the aggregate, holds 10 percent or more of the outstanding voting interest of such entity; holds the right to 10 percent or more of the profits of such entity; holds the right in the event of dissolution to 10 percent or more of the assets of such entity; or otherwise could exercise control over such entity, is:
(A) A foreign national who is a national of one or more excepted real estate foreign states and is not also a national of any foreign state that is not an excepted real estate foreign state;
(B) A foreign government of an excepted real estate foreign state; or
(C) An entity that is organized under the laws of an excepted real estate foreign state or in the United States and has its principal place of business in an excepted real estate foreign state or in the United States; and
(v) The minimum excepted ownership of such entity is held, individually or in the aggregate, by one or more persons each of whom is:
(A) Not a foreign person;
(B) A foreign national who is a national of one or more excepted real estate foreign states and is not also a national of any foreign state that is not an excepted real estate foreign state;
(C) A foreign government of an excepted real estate foreign state; or
(D) An entity that is organized under the laws of an excepted real estate foreign state or in the United States and has its principal place of business in an excepted real estate foreign state or in the United States.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a)(3)(iv) of this section, foreign persons who are related, have formal or informal arrangements to act in concert, or are agencies or instrumentalities of, or controlled by, the national or subnational governments of a single foreign state are considered part of a group of foreign persons and their individual ownerships are aggregated.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a foreign person is not an excepted real estate investor with respect to a transaction if:
(1) In the five years prior to the completion date of the transaction the foreign person, any of its parents, or any entity of which it is a parent:
(i) Has received written notice from the Committee that it has submitted a material misstatement or omission in a notice or declaration or made a false certification under this part or part 800 or 801 of this chapter;
(ii) Has received written notice from the Committee that it has violated a material provision of a mitigation agreement entered into with, material condition imposed by, or an order issued by, the Committee or a lead agency under section 721(l);
(iii) Has been subject to action by the President under section 721(d);
(iv) Has:
(A) Received a written Finding of Violation or Penalty Notice imposing a civil monetary penalty from the Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC); or
(B) Entered into a settlement agreement with OFAC with respect to apparent violations of U.S. sanctions laws administered by OFAC, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, the Trading With the Enemy Act, the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, each as amended, or of any executive order, regulation, order, directive, or license issued pursuant thereto;
(v) Has received a written notice of debarment from the Department of State, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, as described in 22 CFR parts 127 and 128;
(vi) Has been a respondent or party in a final order, including a settlement order, issued by the Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) regarding violations of U.S. export control laws administered by BIS, including the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (50 U.S.C. 4801
et seq.
), the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR parts 730-774), or of any executive order, regulation, order, directive, or license issued pursuant thereto;
(vii) Has received a final decision from the Department of Energy, National Nuclear Security Administration imposing a civil penalty with respect to a violation of section 57 b. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as implemented under 10 CFR part 810; or
(viii) Has been convicted of, or has entered into a deferred prosecution agreement or non-prosecution agreement with the Department of Justice with respect to, any felony in any jurisdiction within the United States; or
(2) The foreign person, any of its parents, or any entity of which it is a parent is, on the date on which the parties to the transaction first execute a binding written agreement, or other binding document, establishing the material terms of the transaction, listed on either the BIS Unverified List or Entity List in 15 CFR part 744.
(d) Irrespective of whether the foreign person satisfies the criteria in paragraph (a)(1) or (2), (a)(3)(i) through (iii), or (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section as of the completion date, if at any time during the three-year period following the completion date the foreign person no longer meets all the criteria set forth in paragraph (a)(1) or (2), (a)(3)(i) through (iii), or (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section, the foreign person is not an excepted real estate investor with respect to the transaction from the completion date onward. This paragraph does not apply when an excepted real estate investor no longer meets any of the criteria solely due to a rescission of a determination under § 802.1001(b) or if the relevant foreign state otherwise ceases to be an excepted real estate foreign state.
(e) A foreign person may waive its status as an excepted real estate investor with respect to a transaction at any time by submitting a declaration under § 802.401 or filing a notice under § 802.501 regarding the transaction in which it explicitly waives such status. In such case, the foreign person will be deemed not to be an excepted real estate investor with respect to the transaction, and the relevant provisions of subpart D or E will apply.

# Note 1 to § 802.215:
See § 802.501(c)(2) regarding an agency notice where a foreign person is not an excepted real estate investor solely due to paragraph (d) of this section.
[85 FR 3166, Jan. 17, 2020; 85 FR 8747, Feb. 18, 2020]
§ 802.216
Excepted real estate transaction.
The term
excepted real estate transaction
means the following:
(a) A purchase or lease by, or concession to, an excepted real estate investor of covered real estate, or a change in rights of an excepted real estate investor with respect to covered real estate.
(b) A covered transaction as defined in part 800 of this chapter that includes the purchase, lease, or concession of covered real estate.
(c) The purchase, lease, or concession of covered real estate that is within an urbanized area or urban cluster, except for real estate that is subject to paragraph (a) or (b)(1) of § 802.211.
(d) The purchase, lease, or concession of covered real estate that is a single housing unit, including fixtures and adjacent land to the extent that such fixtures and land are incidental to the use of the real estate as a single housing unit.
(e) The lease by or a concession to a foreign person of covered real estate under paragraph (a) of § 802.211 if:
(1) The foreign person is a foreign air carrier, as that term is defined in 49 U.S.C. 40102(a)(21), for whom the Department of Homeland Security, Transportation Security Administration has accepted a security program under 49 CFR 1546.105, but only to the extent that the lease or concession is in furtherance of its activities as a foreign air carrier; or
(2) According to the terms of the lease or concession, the covered real estate may be used only for the purpose of engaging in the retail sale of consumer goods or services to the public.
(f) The purchase or lease by, or concession to, a foreign person of commercial space in a multi-unit building that is covered real estate, if, upon the completion of the transaction:
(1) The foreign person and its affiliates do not, in the aggregate, hold, lease, or have a concession with respect to commercial space in such building that exceeds 10 percent of the total square footage of the commercial space of such building; and
(2) The foreign person and its affiliates (each counted separately) do not represent more than 10 percent of the total number of tenants based on the number of ownership, lease and concession arrangements for commercial space in the building.
(g) The purchase or lease by, or a concession to, a foreign person of covered real estate either:
(1) Owned by an Alaska “Native village,” “Native group,” or “Native Corporation” as those terms are defined in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act at 43 U.S.C. 1602; or
(2) Held in trust by the United States for American Indians, Indian tribes, Alaska Natives, or any of the entities set forth in paragraph (g)(1) of this section.
(h) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to purchase all of the shares of Corporation X, a U.S. business. Corporation X is in the business of owning and leasing real estate, including real estate properties that are in close proximity to military installations identified in part 1 and part 2 of appendix A to this part. As the sole owner of Corporation X, Corporation A will have control over Corporation X. The proposed transaction is not a covered real estate transaction but is a covered transaction under part 800 of this chapter.
(2)
Example 2.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (h)(1) of this section. After the transaction contemplated in Example 1 of this section is completed, Corporation X leases from another person a tract of land that is in close proximity to a military installation identified in part 1 of appendix A to this part. Assuming no other relevant facts, the proposed transaction is a covered real estate transaction but only with respect to the new lease.
(3)
Example 3.
Corporation A, a foreign person, seeks to purchase from Corporation X an empty warehouse located in close proximity to a military installation identified in part 2 of appendix A to this part. Assuming no other relevant facts, the purchase of the covered real estate is not a covered transaction subject to part 800 of this chapter because Corporation A has not acquired a U.S. business, and the purchase is a covered real estate transaction.
(4)
Example 4.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (h)(3) of this section, except that, in addition to the proposed purchase of Corporation X's empty warehouse, Corporation A would also acquire from Corporation X the personnel, customer list, equipment, and inventory management software used to operate the warehouse. Under these facts, Corporation A is acquiring a U.S. business, and the proposed transaction is a covered transaction subject to part 800 of this chapter and therefore not a covered real estate transaction.
(5)
Example 5.
Corporation A, a foreign person, purchases covered real estate that is undeveloped and in close proximity to a military installation identified in part 1 of appendix A to this part. Corporation A, through a newly incorporated U.S. subsidiary, intends to use the covered real estate to
set up a manufacturing facility. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A has not acquired a U.S. business, the purchase of the covered real estate is not a covered transaction subject to part 800 of this chapter, and Corporation A's purchase of the covered real estate is a covered real estate transaction.
(6)
Example 6.
A foreign person purchases real estate. The nearest military installation is one that is identified in part 2 of appendix A to this part and is 40 miles away (
i.e.,
in the extended range) from the real estate. The real estate is located in a statistical geographic area with a population of 125,000 individuals. Assuming no other relevant facts, the transaction is not a covered real estate transaction because the covered real estate is located in an urbanized area.
(7)
Example 7.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (h)(6) of this section, except that the covered real estate is not located in an urbanized area or an urban cluster. Assuming no other relevant facts, the real estate transaction is a covered real estate transaction.
(8)
Example 8.
A foreign person purchases real estate that is 0.25 miles from a military installation identified in part 1 of appendix A to this part. The real estate is located in an urbanized area. Assuming no other relevant facts, the real estate transaction is a covered real estate transaction because it is in close proximity to a military installation listed in part 1 of appendix A to this part.
(9)
Example 9.
A foreign person purchases a single housing unit, including the one acre of land surrounding it, within 0.5 miles from a military installation identified in part 1 of appendix A to this part. Each home in the neighborhood sits on a separate lot, each of which is approximately one acre in size. The acre of land surrounding the housing unit is incidental to use of the land as a single housing unit, and the real estate transaction therefore is not a covered real estate transaction.
(10)
Example 10.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (h)(9) of this section, except that the foreign person also purchases an adjacent five acres of undeveloped land a year later. Assuming no other relevant facts, the purchase of the adjacent land is a covered real estate transaction.
(11)
Example 11.
A foreign person leases five percent of the total commercial space in a building located 0.5 miles from a military installation identified in part 1 of appendix A to this part. There are nine other tenants that have leases for commercial space with the building owner. Assuming no other relevant facts, the transaction is a not a covered real estate transaction.

# Note 1 to § 802.216:
With respect to paragraph (d) of this section, for purposes herein, fixtures and land may be considered incidental if the size and nature of such is common for similar single housing units in the locality in which the unit is located.
§ 802.217
Extended range.
The term
extended range
means, with respect to any military installation identified in § 802.227(h), (k), or (m), as listed in part 2 of appendix A to this part, the area that extends 99 miles outward from the outer boundary of close proximity to such military installation, but, where applicable, not exceeding the outer limit of the territorial sea of the United States.
§ 802.218
Foreign entity.
(a) The term
foreign entity
means any branch, partnership, group or sub-group, association, estate, trust, corporation or division of a corporation, or organization organized under the laws of a foreign state if either its principal place of business is outside the United States or its equity securities are primarily traded on one or more foreign exchanges.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, any branch, partnership, group or sub-group, association, estate, trust, corporation or division of a corporation, or organization that can demonstrate that a majority of the equity interest in such entity is ultimately owned by U.S. nationals is not a foreign entity.
§ 802.219
Foreign government.
The term
foreign government
means any government or body exercising governmental functions, other than the U.S. Government or a subnational government of the United States. The
term includes, but is not limited to, national and subnational governments, including their respective departments, agencies, and instrumentalities.
§ 802.220
Foreign national.
The term
foreign national
means any individual other than a U.S. national.
§ 802.221
Foreign person.
(a) The term
foreign person
means:
(1) Any foreign national, foreign government, or foreign entity; or
(2) Any entity over which control is exercised or exercisable by a foreign national, foreign government, or foreign entity.
(b) Any entity over which control is exercised or exercisable by a foreign person is a foreign person.
(c) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state and is engaged in business only outside the United States. All of its shares are held by Corporation X, which solely controls Corporation A. Corporation X is organized in the United States and is wholly owned and controlled by U.S. nationals. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A, although organized and operating only outside the United States, is not a foreign entity due to § 802.218(b) and is not a foreign person.
(2)
Example 2.
Same facts as the first sentence of the example in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The government of the foreign state under whose laws Corporation A is organized exercises control over Corporation A because a law establishing Corporation A gives the foreign state the right to appoint Corporation A's board members. Corporation A is a foreign person.
(3)
Example 3.
Corporation A is organized in the United States, is engaged in interstate commerce in the United States, and is controlled by Corporation X. Corporation X is organized under the laws of a foreign state, its principal place of business is located outside the United States, and 50 percent of its shares are held by foreign nationals and 50 percent of its shares are held by U.S. nationals. Both Corporation A and Corporation X are foreign persons. Corporation A is also a U.S. business.
(4)
Example 4.
Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state and is owned and controlled by a foreign national. A branch of Corporation A engages in interstate commerce in the United States. Corporation A (including its branch) is a foreign person. The branch is also a U.S. business.
(5)
Example 5.
Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state and its principal place of business is located outside the United States. Forty-five percent of the equity interest in Corporation A is owned in equal shares by numerous unrelated foreign investors, none of whom has control. The foreign investors have no formal or informal arrangement with any other holder of equity interest in Corporation A to act in concert regarding Corporation A. Corporation A can demonstrate that the remainder of the equity interest in Corporation A is ultimately held by U.S. nationals. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A is not a foreign entity or foreign person.
(6)
Example 6.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, except that one of the foreign investors, a foreign national, controls Corporation A. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A is not a foreign entity due to § 802.218(b), but it is a foreign person under paragraph (a)(2) of this section because it is controlled by a foreign national.
§ 802.222
Hold.
The terms
hold(s)
and
holding
mean legal or beneficial ownership, whether direct or indirect, whether through fiduciaries, agents, or other means.
§ 802.223
Housing unit.
The term
housing unit
means a single family house, townhome, mobile home or trailer, apartment, group of rooms, or single room that is occupied as a separate living quarters, or, if vacant, is intended for occupancy as a separate living quarters.
§ 802.224
Investment fund.
The term
investment fund
means any entity that is an “investment company,” as defined in section 3(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
), or would be an
“investment company” but for one or more of the exemptions provided in section 3(b) or 3(c) thereunder.
§ 802.225
Lead agency.
The term
lead agency
means the Department of the Treasury and any other agency designated by the Chairperson of the Committee to have primary responsibility, on behalf of the Committee, for the specific activity for which the Chairperson designates it as a lead agency, including all or a portion of an assessment, a review, an investigation, or the negotiation or monitoring of a mitigation agreement or condition.
§ 802.226
Lease.
(a) The term
lease
means an arrangement conveying a possessory interest in real estate, short of ownership, to a person for a specified time and in exchange for consideration. This term includes subleases and assignments in whole or part.
(b) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
Foreign person A enters into an arrangement with a neighbor that allows the foreign person to use a private road running across the neighbor's land. The road will remain owned by the neighbor following the arrangement. The neighbor will also retain physical possession of his land despite the foreign person having permission to traverse the land while using the road. The arrangement does not convey a possessory interest in real estate. Assuming no other relevant facts, the foreign person has not entered into a lease.
(2)
Example 2.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, except that the foreign person's arrangement with the neighbor gives the foreign person the exclusive right to occupy a portion of the neighbor's land and attach fixtures to the surface, in exchange for a fee for a specified period of time. The foreign person can unilaterally adjust, remove, and make other changes to the fixtures. The foreign person has entered into a lease.

# Note 1 to § 802.226:
See § 800.249(a)(5) for certain long-term leases and concessions that could be subject to part 800 of this chapter.
§ 802.227
Military installation.
The term
military installation
means any site that meets the following category descriptions, as identified in the list at appendix A to this part:
(a) Active Air Force ballistic missile fields;
(b) Air Force bases administering active Air Force ballistic missile fields;
(c) Air Force bases and major annexes thereof containing a unit from the Air Force Air Combat Command;
(d) Air Force bases and major annexes thereof containing an Air Force research laboratory or test unit and associated sites;
(e) Air Force bases and major annexes thereof, and Space Force bases and major annexes thereof containing a unit of the North American Aerospace Defense Command and its regions;
(f) Air Force bases, Air Force stations, Space Force bases, Space Force stations, and major annexes thereof, containing satellite, telemetry, tracking, or commanding systems;
(g) Army bases, ammunition plants, centers of excellence, major depots and arsenals, military terminals, and research laboratories and major annexes thereof;
(h) Army combat training centers located in the continental United States;
(i) Headquarters of the Office of the Secretary of Defense and Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency and major offices and annexes thereof;
(j) Long range radar sites and major annexes thereof in any of the following states: Alaska, North Dakota, California, or Massachusetts;
(k) Major range and test facility base activities as defined in 10 U.S.C. 196;
(l) Marine Corps bases and air stations and major annexes thereof, excluding detachments and recruit depots;
(m) Military ranges as defined in 10 U.S.C. 101 (f)(1), or joint forces training centers;
(n) Naval bases and air stations including major support activities and annexes;
(o) Naval surface, air, and undersea warfare centers and research laboratories and major annexes thereof; and
(p) Navy off-shore range complexes and off-shore operating areas.
[85 FR 3166, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 57350, Aug. 23, 2023; 89 FR 88133, Nov. 7, 2024]
§ 802.228
Minimum excepted ownership.
The term
minimum excepted ownership
means:
(a) With respect to an entity whose equity securities are primarily traded on an exchange in an excepted real estate foreign state or the United States, a majority of its voting interest, the right to a majority of its profits, and the right in the event of dissolution to a majority of its assets; and
(b) With respect to an entity whose equity securities are not primarily traded on an exchange in an excepted real estate foreign state or the United States, 80 percent or more of its voting interest, the right to 80 percent or more of its profits, and the right in the event of dissolution to 80 percent or more of its assets.
§ 802.229
Parent.
(a) The term
parent
means, with respect to an entity:
(1) A person who or which directly or indirectly:
(i) Holds or will hold at least 50 percent of the outstanding voting interest in the entity; or
(ii) Holds or will hold the right to at least 50 percent of the profits of the entity, or has or will have the right in the event of dissolution to at least 50 percent of the assets of the entity; or
(2) The general partner, managing member, or equivalent of the entity.
(b) Any entity that meets the conditions of paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section with respect to another entity (
i.e.,
the intermediate parent) is also a parent of any other entity of which the intermediate parent is a parent.
(c) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
Corporation P holds 50 percent of the voting interest in Corporations R and S; Corporation R holds 40 percent of the voting interest in Corporation X; and Corporation S holds 50 percent of the voting interest in Corporation Y, which in turn holds 50 percent of the voting interest in Corporation Z. Corporation P is a parent of Corporations R, S, Y, and Z, but not of Corporation X. Corporation S is a parent of Corporation Y and Z, and Corporation Y is a parent of Corporation Z.
(2)
Example 2.
Corporation A holds warrants which when exercised will entitle it to vote 50 percent of the outstanding shares of Corporation B. Corporation A is a parent of Corporation B.
(3)
Example 3.
Investor A holds 60 percent of the outstanding voting interest in Corporation B. Investor C holds the right to 80 percent of the profits of Corporation B. Each of Investor A and Investor C is a parent of Corporation B.
§ 802.230
Party to a transaction.
(a) The term
party to a transaction
means:
(1) In the case of a purchase, the person acquiring the ownership interest, the person from whom such ownership interest is acquired, and the entity whose ownership interest is being acquired, without regard to any person providing brokerage or underwriting services for the transaction;
(2) In the case of a lease, the person acquiring the possessory interest, and the person from whom such possessory interest is acquired;
(3) In the case of a concession, the person receiving the right to use the covered real estate, and the U.S. public entity;
(4) In the case of a change in rights that a person has with respect to covered real estate as a result of a purchase, lease, or concession, the person whose rights change as a result of the transaction, and the person conveying those rights; and
(5) In the case of any other transaction, transfer, agreement, or arrangement, the structure of which is designed or intended to evade or circumvent the application of section 721, any person that participates in such transaction, transfer, agreement, or arrangement.
(6) In all cases, each party that submitted a declaration or notice to the Committee regarding a transaction.
(b) For purposes of section 721(l), the term
party to a transaction
includes any
affiliate of any party described in paragraph (a) of this section that the Committee, or a lead agency acting on behalf of the Committee, determines is relevant to mitigating a risk to the national security of the United States.
§ 802.231
Person.
The term
person
means any individual or entity.
§ 802.232
Principal place of business.
(a) The term
principal place of business
means, subject to paragraph (b) of this section, the primary location where an entity's management directs, controls, or coordinates the entity's activities, or, in the case of an investment fund, where the fund's activities are primarily directed, controlled, or coordinated by or on behalf of the general partner, managing member, or equivalent.
(b) If the location determined under paragraph (a) of this section is in the United States and the entity has represented to the U.S. Government or a subnational government of the United States or any foreign government, in the most recent submission or filing to such government (other than a submission or filing to the Committee) in which the entity has identified its principal place of business, principal office and place of business, address of principal executive offices, address of headquarters, or equivalent, that any of the foregoing is outside the United States, then the location identified in such submission or filing is deemed for purposes of this definition to be the entity's principal place of business unless the entity can demonstrate that such location has changed to the United States since such submission or filing.
[85 FR 3166, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 45313, July 28, 2020]
§ 802.233
Property right.
(a) The term
property right
means, with respect to real estate, any of the following rights or abilities, whether or not exercised, whether or not shared concurrently with any other person, and whether or not the underlying real estate is subject to an easement or other encumbrance:
(1) To physically access the real estate;
(2) To exclude others from physically accessing the real estate;
(3) To improve or develop the real estate; or
(4) To attach fixed or immovable structures or objects to the real estate.
(b) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person, enters into a lease of real estate. Although at least one other person shares concurrently with Corporation A the right to access the property, Corporation A retains the right to physically exclude others from access that would interfere with its rights under the lease. Under the lease, Corporation A has the right to exclude others from physically accessing the real estate, and therefore affords the foreign person a property right.
(2)
Example 2.
Corporation A, a foreign person, enters into a lease of real estate that allows Corporation A to develop the real estate. The exercise of the right to develop the real estate is subject to Corporation A obtaining the appropriate regulatory permits. Notwithstanding the fact that Corporation A has not fully exercised its lease right pending the issuance of the permits, Corporation A is a party to lease that affords it a property right for purposes of this part.
§ 802.234
Purchase.
(a) The term
purchase
means an arrangement conveying an ownership interest in real estate to a person in exchange for consideration.
(b) Example: Person A, a foreign person, acquires covered real estate from Person B, a U.S. national, in exchange for land and services. Person A has purchased the covered real estate because the arrangement was predicated on consideration in the form of land and services.
§ 802.235
Real estate.
The term
real estate
means any land, including subsurface and submerged, or structure attached to land, including any building or any part thereof, that is located in the United States.
§ 802.236
Section 721.
The term
section 721
means section 721 of title VII of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4565).
§ 802.237
Transaction.
The term
transaction
means any purchase or lease by, or concession to, a person of real estate, whether proposed or completed.
§ 802.238
United States.
The term
United States
or
U.S.
