The school must wait at least one calendar year from the date of denial of recertification or withdrawal on notice before being eligible to petition again for SEVP certification if a school's petition for recertification is denied by SEVP pursuant to § 214.3(h)(2)(v), or its certification is withdrawn on notice pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section. Eligibility to re-petition will be at the discretion of the Director of SEVP. SEVP certification of a school or school system for the attendance of nonimmigrant students, pursuant to sections 101(a)(15)(F) and/or 101(a)(15)(M) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, will be withdrawn on notice subsequent to out-of-cycle review, or recertification denied, if the school or school system is determined to no longer be entitled to certification for any valid and substantive reason including, but not limited to, the following:
(i) Failure to comply with 8 CFR 214.3(g)(1) without a subpoena.
(ii) Failure to comply with 8 CFR 214.3(g)(2).
(iii) Failure of a DSO to notify SEVP of the attendance of an F-1 transfer student as required by 8 CFR 214.2(f)(8)(ii).
(iv) Failure of a DSO to identify on the Form I-20 or successor form which school within the system the student must attend, in compliance with 8 CFR 214.3(k).
(v) Willful issuance by a DSO of a false statement, including wrongful certification of a statement by signature, in connection with a student's school transfer or application for employment or practical training.
(vi) Conduct on the part of a DSO that does not comply with the regulations.
(vii) The designation as a DSO of an individual who does not meet the requirements of 8 CFR 214.3(l)(1).
(viii) Failure to provide SEVP with the school's Form I-17 bearing the names, titles, and signatures of DSOs as required by 8 CFR 214.3(l)(2).
(ix) Failure to submit statements of DSOs as required by 8 CFR 214.3(l)(3).
(x) Issuance of Form I-20 or successor form to students without receipt of proof that the students have met scholastic, language, or financial requirements as required by 8 CFR 214.3(k)(2).
(xi) Issuance of Form I-20 or successor form to aliens who will not be enrolled in or carry full courses of study, as defined in 8 CFR 214.2(f)(6) or 214.2(m)(9).
(xii) Failure to operate as a bona fide institution of learning.
(xiii) Failure to employ adequate qualified professional personnel.
(xiv) Failure to limit advertising in the manner prescribed in 8 CFR 214.3(j).
(xv) Failure to maintain proper facilities for instruction.
(xvi) Failure to maintain accreditation or licensing necessary to qualify graduates as represented in the school's Form I-17.
(xvii) Failure to maintain the physical plant, curriculum, and teaching staff in the manner represented in the Form I-17.
(xviii) Failure to comply with the procedures for issuance of Form I-20 or successor form as set forth in 8 CFR 214.3(k).
(xix) Failure of a DSO to notify SEVP of material changes, such as changes to the school's name, address, or curricular changes that represent material change to the scope of institution offerings (e.g., addition of a program, class or course for which the school is issuing Form I-20 or successor form, but which does not have Form I-17 approval), as required by 8 CFR 214.3(f)(1).
(3)
Automatic withdrawal.
A school that is automatically withdrawn and subsequently wishes to enroll nonimmigrant students in the future may file a new petition for SEVP certification at any time. The school must use the certification petition procedures described in § 214.3(h) to gain access to SEVIS for submitting its petition. Past compliance with the recordkeeping, retention, reporting and other requirements of 8 CFR 214.3(f), (g), (j), (k), and (l), and with the requirements for transition of students under paragraph (i) of this section will be considered in the evaluation of a school's subsequent petition for certification. SEVP certification will be automatically withdrawn:
(i) As of the date of termination of operations, if an SEVP-certified school terminates its operations.
(ii) As of a school's certification expiration date, if an SEVP-certified school does not submit a completed recertification petition in the manner required by 8 CFR 214.3(h)(2).
(iii) Sixty days after the occurrence of the change of ownership if the school failed to update its information in accordance with § 214.3(h)(1) or properly file a new petition, SEVP will review the petition if the school properly files such petition to determine whether the school still meets the eligibility requirements of § 214.3(a)(3) and is still in compliance with the recordkeeping, retention, reporting and other requirements of § 214.3(f), (g), (j), (k), and (l). SEVP will review the petition if the school properly files such petition to determine whether the school still meets the eligibility requirements of 8 CFR 214.3(a)(3) and is still in compliance with the recordkeeping, retention, reporting and other requirements of 8
CFR 214.3(f), (g), (j), (k), and (l). SEVP will institute withdrawal proceedings in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section if, upon completion of the review, SEVP finds that the school is no longer eligible for certification, or is not in compliance with the recordkeeping, retention, reporting and other requirements of § 214.3(f), (g), (j), (k), and (l), or failed to file a new petition within the allowable 60-day timeframe.
(iv) If an SEVP-certified school voluntarily withdraws from its certification.
(b)
Withdrawal on notice.
SEVP will initiate an out-of-cycle review and serve the school with an NOIW if SEVP has information that a school or school system may no longer be entitled to SEVP certification prior to the school being due for its two-year recertification. The NOIW will inform the school of:
(1) The grounds for withdrawing SEVP certification.
(2) The 30-day deadline from the date of the service of the NOIW for the school to submit sworn statements, and documentary or other evidence, to rebut the grounds for withdrawal of certification in the NOIW. An NOIW is not a means for the school to submit evidence that it should have previously submitted as a part of its established reporting requirements.
(3) The school's right to submit a written request (including e-mail) within 30 days of the date of service of the NOIW for a telephonic interview in support of its response to the NOIW.
(c)
Assistance of counsel.
The school or school system shall also be informed in the notice of intent to withdraw certification that it may be assisted or represented by counsel of its choice qualified under part 292 of this chapter, at no expense to the Government, in preparation of its answer or in connection with the interview.
(d)
Allegations admitted or no answer filed.
If the school or school system admits all of the allegations in the notice of intent to withdraw certification, or if the school or school system fails to file an answer within the 30-day period, SEVP will withdraw the certification previously granted and notify the designated school official of the decision. No appeal of SEVP's decision will be accepted if all allegations are admitted or no answer is filed within the 30-day period.
(e)
Allegations denied.
If the school or school system denies the allegations in the notice of intent to withdraw certification, then the school or school system shall, in its answer, provide all information or evidence on which the answer is based.
(f)
Interview requested.
(1) If in its answer to the notice of intent to withdraw certification the school or school system requests an interview, the school or school system will be given notice of the date set for the interview.
(2) A summary of the information provided by the school or school system at the interview will be prepared and included in the record. At the discretion of SEVP, the interview may be recorded.
(g)
Decision.
The decision of SEVP will be in accordance with 8 CFR 103.3(a)(1).
(h)
Appeals.
A school may file an appeal of a denial or withdrawal no later than 15 days after the service of the decision by ICE. The appeal must state the reasons and grounds for contesting the denial or withdrawal. The appeal must be accompanied by the fee as provided in 8 CFR 103.7(d)(15).
(i)
Operations at a school when SEVP certification is relinquished or withdrawn, or whose recertification is denied and on the SEVIS access termination date
—(1)
General.
A school whose certification is relinquished or withdrawn, or whose recertification is denied may, at SEVP discretion, no longer be able to create Initial student records or issue new Form I-20, Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant Student Status, or successor form, for initial attendance. Schools must comply with the instructions given in the notice of withdrawal or denial with regard to management of status for their Initial and continuing F and/or M students. All other SEVIS functionality, including event reporting for students, will remain unchanged until the school's SEVIS access termination date. The school must continue to comply with the recordkeeping, retention, reporting and other requirements of 8 CFR 214.3(f), (g), (j), (k), and (l) until its SEVIS access termination date.
(2)
SEVIS access termination.
In determining the SEVIS access termination date, SEVP will consider the impact that such date will have upon SEVP, the school, and the school's nonimmigrant students in determining the SEVIS access termination date. In most situations, SEVP will not determine a SEVIS access termination date for that school until the appeals process has concluded and the denial or withdrawal has been upheld unless a school whose certification is withdrawn or whose recertification is denied is suspected of criminal activity or poses a potential national security threat. The school will no longer be able to access SEVIS, and SEVP will automatically terminate any remaining Active SEVIS records for that school on the SEVIS access termination date.
(3)
Legal obligations and ramifications for a school and its DSOs when a school is having SEVP certification denied or withdrawn.
Schools are obligated to their students to provide the programs of study to which they have committed themselves in the students' application for enrollment and acceptance process. Schools are obligated to the U.S. government to comply with the recordkeeping, retention, reporting and other requirements contained in 8 CFR 214.3. With any new petition for SEVP certification, SEVP will consider the extent to which a school has fulfilled these obligations to students and the U.S. government during any previous period of SEVP certification.
[37 FR 17463, Aug. 29, 1972, as amended at 48 FR 14592, Apr. 5, 1983; 48 FR 19867, May 3, 1983; 48 FR 22131, May 17, 1983; 49 FR 41015, Oct. 19, 1984; 50 FR 9991, Mar. 13, 1985; 54 FR 19544, May 8, 1989; 55 FR 41988, Oct. 17, 1990; 67 FR 60112, Sept. 25, 2002; 73 FR 55702, Sept. 26, 2008; 84 FR 23979, May 23, 2019; 87 FR 75911, Dec. 12, 2022; 88 FR 53761, Aug. 9, 2023]
§ 214.5
Libyan and third country nationals acting on behalf of Libyan entities.
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, the nonimmigrant status of any Libyan national, or of any other foreign national acting on behalf of a Libyan entity, who is engaging in aviation maintenance, flight operations, or nuclear-related studies or training is terminated.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the following benefits will not be available to any Libyan national or any other foreign national acting on behalf of a Libyan entity where the purpose is to engage in, or seek to obtain aviation maintenance, flight operations or nuclear-related studies or training:
(1) Application for school transfer.
(2) Application for extension of stay.
(3) Employment authorization or practical training.
(4) Request for reinstatement of student status.
(5) Application for change of nonimmigrant status.
(Secs. 103, 212, 214, 248; 8 U.S.C. 1103, 1182, 1184, 1258)
[48 FR 10297, Mar. 3, 1983]
§ 214.6
Citizens of Canada or Mexico seeking temporary entry under USMCA to engage in business activities at a professional level.
(a)
General.
Under section 214(e) of the Act, a citizen of Canada or Mexico who seeks temporary entry as a business person to engage in business activities at a professional level may be admitted to the United States in accordance with the Agreement Between the United States of America, the United Mexican States, and Canada (USMCA).
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this section, the terms:
Business activities at a professional level
means those undertakings which require that, for successful completion, the individual has a least a baccalaureate degree or appropriate credentials demonstrating status as a professional in a profession set forth in Appendix 2 to Annex 16-A of Chapter 16 of the USMCA.
Business person,
as defined in the USMCA, means a citizen of Canada or Mexico who is engaged in the trade of goods, the supply of services, or the conduct of investment activities.
Engage in business activities at a professional level
means the performance of prearranged business activities for a United States entity, including an individual. It does not authorize the establishment of a business or practice in
the United States in which the professional will be, in substance, self-employed. A professional will be deemed to be self-employed if he or she will be rendering services to a corporation or entity of which the professional is the sole or controlling shareholder or owner.
Temporary entry,
as defined in the USMCA, means entry without the intent to establish permanent residence. The alien must satisfy the inspecting immigration officer that the proposed stay is temporary. A temporary period has a reasonable, finite end that does not equate to permanent residence. In order to establish that the alien's entry will be temporary, the alien must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the inspecting immigration officer that his or her work assignment in the United States will end at a predictable time and that he or she will depart upon completion of the assignment.
(c)
Appendix 2 to Annex 16-A of Chapter 16 of the USMCA.
Pursuant to the USMCA, an applicant seeking admission under this section shall demonstrate business activity at a professional level in one of the professions set forth in Appendix 2 to Annex 16-A of Chapter 16. The professions in Appendix 2 to Annex 16-A and the minimum requirements for qualification for each are as follows:
1
1
A business person seeking temporary employment under this Appendix may also perform training functions relating to the profession, including conducting seminars.

# Appendix 2 to Annex 16-A of Chapter 16 (Annotated)

# General
—Accountant—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree; or C.P.A., C.A., C.G.A., or C.M.A.
—Architect—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree; or state/provincial license.
2
2
The terms “state/provincial license” and “state/provincial/federal license” mean any document issued by a state, provincial, or federal government, as the case may be, or under its authority, but not by a local government, that permits a person to engage in a regulated activity or profession.
—Computer Systems Analyst—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree; or Post-Secondary Diploma
3
or Post-Secondary Certificate,
4
and three years experience.
3
“Post-Secondary Diploma” means a credential issued, on completion of two or more years of postsecondary education, by an accredited academic institution in Canada or the United States.
4
“Post-Secondary Certificate” means a certificate issued, on completion of two or more years of postsecondary education at an academic institution, by the federal government of Mexico or a state government in Mexico, an academic institution recognized by the federal government or a state government, or an academic institution created by federal or state law.
—Disaster Relief Insurance Claims Adjuster (claims adjuster employed by an insurance company located in the territory of a Party, or an independent claims adjuster)—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree, and successful completion of training in the appropriate areas of insurance adjustment pertaining to disaster relief claims; or three years experience in claims adjustment and successful completion of training in the appropriate areas of insurance adjustment pertaining to disaster relief claims.
—Economist—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Engineer—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree; or state/provincial license.
—Forester—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree; or state/provincial license.
—Graphic Designer—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree; or Post-Secondary Diploma or Post-Secondary Certificate, and three years experience.
—Hotel Manager—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree in hotel/restaurant management; or Post-Secondary Diploma or Post-Secondary Certificate in hotel/restaurant management, and three years experience in hotel/restaurant management.
—Industrial Designer—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree; or Post-Secondary Diploma or Post-Secondary Certificate, and three years experience.
—Interior Designer—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree; or Post-Secondary Diploma or Post-Secondary Certificate, and three years experience.
—Land Surveyor—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree; or state/provincial/federal license.
—Landscape Architect—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Lawyer (including Notary in the province of Quebec)—L.L.B., J.D., L.L.L., B.C.L., or Licenciatura Degree (five years); or membership in a state/provincial bar.
—Librarian—M.L.S. or B.L.S. (for which another Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree was a prerequisite).
—Management Consultant—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree; or equivalent professional experience as established by statement or professional credential attesting to five years experience as a management consultant, or five years experience in a field of specialty related to the consulting agreement.
—Mathematician (including Statistician)—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
5
5
The term “Mathematician” includes the profession of Actuary. An Actuary must satisfy the necessary requirements to be recognized as an actuary by a professional actuarial association or society. A professional actuarial association or society means a professional actuarial association or society operating in the territory of at least one of the Parties.
—Range Manager/Range Conservationist—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Research Assistant (working in a post-secondary educational institution)—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Scientific Technician/Technologist
6
—Possession of (a) theoretical knowledge of any of the following disciplines: agricultural sciences, astronomy, biology, chemistry, engineering, forestry, geology, geophysics, meteorology, or physics; and (b) the ability to solve practical problems in any of those disciplines, or the ability to apply principles of any of those disciplines to basic or applied research.
6
A business person in this category must be seeking temporary entry for work in direct support of professionals in agricultural sciences, astronomy, biology, chemistry, engineering, forestry, geology, geophysics, meteorology or physics.
—Social Worker—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Sylviculturist (including Forestry Specialist)—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Technical Publications Writer—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree; or Post-Secondary Diploma or Post-Secondary Certificate, and three years experience.
—Urban Planner (including Geographer)—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Vocational Counselor—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.

# Medical/Allied Professionals
—Dentist—D.D.S., D.M.D., Doctor en Odontologia or Doctor en Cirugia Dental; or state/provincial license.
—Dietitian—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree; or state/provincial license.
—Medical Laboratory Technologist (Canada)/Medical Technologist (Mexico and the United States)
7
—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree; or Post-Secondary Diploma or Post-Secondary Certificate, and three years experience.
7
A business person in this category must be seeking temporary entry to perform in a laboratory, chemical, biological, hematological, immunologic, microscopic or bacteriological tests and analyses for diagnosis, treatment, or prevention of diseases.
—Nutritionist—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Occupational Therapist—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree; or state/provincial license.
—Pharmacist—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree; or state/provincial license.
—Physician (teaching or research only)—M.D. or Doctor en Medicina; or state/provincial license.
—Physiotherapist/Physical Therapist—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree; or state/provincial license.
—Psychologist—State/provincial license; or Licenciatura Degree.
—Recreational Therapist—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Registered Nurse—State/provincial license; or Licenciatura Degree.
—Veterinarian—D.V.M., D.M.V., or Doctor en Veterinaria; or state/provincial license.

# Scientist
—Agriculturist (including Agronomist)—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Animal Breeder—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Animal Scientist—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Apiculturist—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Astronomer—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Biochemist—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Biologist—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
8
8
The term “Biologist” includes the profession of Plant Pathologist.
—Chemist—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Dairy Scientist—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Entomologist—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Epidemiologist—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Geneticist—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Geochemist—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Geologist—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Geophysicist (including Oceanographer in Mexico and the United States)—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Horticulturist—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Meteorologist—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Pharmacologist—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Physicist (including Oceanographer in Canada)—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Plant Breeder—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Poultry Scientist—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Soil Scientist—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Zoologist—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.

# Teacher
—College—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—Seminary—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
—University—Baccalaureate or Licenciatura Degree.
(d)
Classification of citizens of Canada or Mexico as TN professionals under the USMCA
—(1)
Citizens of Mexico.
A citizen of Mexico who seeks temporary entry as a business person to engage in business activities at a professional level may be admitted to the United States in accordance with USMCA upon presentation of a valid passport and valid TN nonimmigrant visa at a United States Class A port-of-entry, at a United States airport handling international traffic, or at a United States pre-clearance/pre-flight station.
(2)
Citizens of Canada.
A citizen of Canada seeking temporary entry as a business person to engage in business activities at a professional level shall make application for admission with a Department officer at the United States Class A port-of-entry, at a United States airport handling international traffic, or at a United States pre-clearance/pre-flight station.
(3)
Documentation.
Upon application for a visa at a United States consular office, or, in the case of a citizen of Canada making application for admission at a port-of-entry, an applicant under this section shall present the following:
(i)
Proof of citizenship.
A Mexican citizen applying for admission as a TN nonimmigrant must establish such citizenship by presenting a valid passport. Canadian citizens, while not required to present a valid passport for admission unless traveling from outside the Western hemisphere, must establish Canadian citizenship.
(ii)
Documentation demonstrating engagement in business activities at a professional level and demonstrating professional qualifications.
The applicant must present documentation sufficient to satisfy the consular officer (in the case of a Mexican citizen) or the Department officer (in the case of a Canadian citizen) that the applicant is seeking entry to the United States to engage in business activities for a United States employer(s) or entity(ies) at a professional level, and that the applicant meets the criteria to perform at such a professional level. This documentation may be in the form of a letter from the prospective employer(s) in the United States or from the foreign employer, and must be supported by diplomas, degrees or membership in a professional organization. Degrees received by the applicant from an educational institution not located within Canada, Mexico, or the United States must be accompanied by an evaluation by a reliable credentials evaluation service which specializes in evaluating foreign educational credentials. The documentation shall fully affirm:
(A) The profession of the applicant under Appendix 2 to Annex 16-A of Chapter 16 of the USMCA;
(B) A description of the professional activities, including a brief summary of daily job duties, if appropriate, in which the applicant will engage in for the United States employer/entity;
(C) The anticipated length of stay;
(D) The educational qualifications or appropriate credentials which demonstrate that the Canadian or Mexican citizen has professional level status; and
(E) The arrangements for remuneration for services to be rendered.
(e)
Procedures for admission.
A citizen of Canada or Mexico who qualifies for admission under this section shall be provided confirming documentation and shall be admitted under the classification symbol TN for a period not to exceed three years. The conforming document provided shall bear the legend “multiple entry.” The fee prescribed under 8 CFR 103.7(b)(1) shall be
remitted by Canadian Citizens upon admission to the United States pursuant to the terms and conditions of the USMCA. Upon remittance of the prescribed fee, the TN applicant for admission shall be provided a DHS-issued receipt on the appropriate form.
(f) [Reserved]
(g)
Readmission
—(1)
With a Form I-94.
An alien may be readmitted to the United States in TN classification for the remainder of the authorized period of TN admission on Form I-94 (see § 1.4), without presentation of the letter or supporting documentation described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, and without the prescribed fee set forth in 8 CFR 106.2, provided that the original intended professional activities and employer(s) have not changed, and the Form I-94 has not expired.
(2)
Without a valid I-94.
If the alien seeking readmission to the United States in TN classification is no longer in possession of a valid, unexpired Form I-94, and the period of initial admission in TN classification has not lapsed, then a new Form I-94 may be issued for the period of validity that remains on the TN nonimmigrant's original Form I-94 with the legend “multiple entry” and the alien can then be readmitted in TN status if the alien presents alternate evidence as follows:
(i) For Canadian citizens, alternate evidence may include, but is not limited to, a fee receipt for admission as a TN or a previously issued admission stamp as TN in a passport, and a confirming letter from the United States employer(s).
(ii) For Mexican citizens seeking readmission as TN nonimmigrants, alternate evidence shall consist of presentation of a valid unexpired TN visa and evidence of a previous admission.
(h)
Extension of stay
—(1)
Filing.
A United States employer of a citizen of Canada or Mexico who is currently maintaining valid TN nonimmigrant status, or a United States entity (in the case of a citizen of Canada or Mexico who is currently maintaining valid TN nonimmigrant status and is employed by a foreign employer), may request an extension of stay, subject to the following conditions:
(i) An extension of stay must be requested by filing the appropriate form with the fee provided at 8 CFR 106.2, in accordance with the form instructions with USCIS.
(ii) The beneficiary must be physically present in the United States at the time of the filing of the appropriate form requesting an extension of stay as a TN nonimmigrant. If the alien is required to leave the United States for any reason while the petition is pending, the petitioner may request that USCIS notify the consular office where the beneficiary is required to apply for a visa or, if visa exempt, a DHS-designated port-of-entry where the beneficiary will apply for admission to the United States, of the approval.
(iii) An extension of stay in TN status may be approved by USCIS for a maximum period of three years.
(iv) There is no specific limit on the total period of time an alien may be in TN status provided the alien continues to be engaged in TN business activities for a U.S. employer or entity at a professional level, and otherwise continues to properly maintain TN nonimmigrant status.
(2)
Readmission at the border.
Nothing in paragraph (h)(1) of this section shall preclude a citizen of Canada or Mexico who has previously been admitted to the United States in TN status, and who has not violated such status while in the United States, from applying at a DHS-designated port-of-entry, prior to the expiration date of the previous period of admission, for a new three-year period of admission. The application for a new period of admission must be supported by a new letter from the United States employer or the foreign employer, in the case of a citizen of Canada who is providing prearranged services to a United States entity, which meets the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section, together with the appropriate filing fee as noted in 8 CFR 106.2. Citizens of Mexico must present a valid passport and a valid, unexpired TN nonimmigrant visa when applying for readmission, as outlined in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(i)
Request for change or addition of United States employers
—(1)
Filing at the service center.
A citizen of Canada or Mexico admitted into the United
States as a TN nonimmigrant who seeks to change or add a United States employer during the period of admission must have the new employer file a Form I-129 with appropriate supporting documentation, including a letter from the new employer describing the services to be performed, the time needed to render such services, and the terms of remuneration for services. Employment with a different or with an additional employer is not authorized prior to Department approval of the request.
(2)
Readmission at the border.
Nothing in paragraph (i)(1) of those section precludes a citizen of Canada or Mexico from applying for readmission to the United States for the purpose of presenting documentation from a different or additional United States or foreign employer. Such documentation shall meet the requirements prescribed in paragraph (d) of this section. The fee prescribed under 8 CFR 106.2 shall be remitted by Canadian citizens upon admission to the United States pursuant to the terms and conditions of the USMCA. Citizens of Mexico may present documentation from a different or additional United States or foreign employer to a consular officer as evidence in support of a new nonimmigrant TN visa application.
(3) No action shall be required on the part of a citizen of Canada or Mexico in TN status who is transferred to another location by the same United States employer to perform the same services. Such an acceptable transfer would be to a branch or office of the employer. In a case of a transfer to a separately incorporated subsidiary or affiliate, the requirements of paragraphs (i)(1) and (i)(2) of this section will apply.
(j)
Spouse and unmarried minor children accompanying or following to join.
(1) The spouse or unmarried minor children of a citizen of Canada or Mexico admitted in TN nonimmigrant status, if otherwise admissible, may be admitted initially, readmitted, or granted a change of nonimmigrant status or an extension of his or her period of stay for the same period of time granted to the TN nonimmigrant. Such spouse or unmarried minor children shall, upon approval of an application for admission, readmission, change of status or extension of stay be classified as TD nonimmigrants. A request for a change of status to TD or an extension of stay of a TD nonimmigrant may be made on the appropriate form together with appropriate filing fees and evidence of the principal alien's current TN status.
(2) The spouse or unmarried minor children of a citizen of Canada or Mexico admitted in TN nonimmigrant status shall be required to present a valid, unexpired TD nonimmigrant visa unless otherwise exempt under 8 CFR 212.1.
(3) The spouse and unmarried minor children of a citizen of Canada or Mexico admitted in TN nonimmigrant status shall be issued confirming documentation bearing the legend “multiple entry.” There shall be no fee required for admission of the spouse and unmarried minor children.
(4) The spouse and unmarried minor children of a citizen of Canada or Mexico admitted in TN nonimmigrant status shall not accept employment in the United States unless otherwise authorized under the Act.
(k)
Effect of a strike.
(1) If the Secretary of Labor certifies or otherwise informs the Director of USCIS that a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers is in progress, and the temporary entry of a citizen of Mexico or Canada in TN nonimmigrant status may adversely affect the settlement of any labor dispute or the employment of any person who is involved in such dispute, the United States may refuse to issue an immigration document authorizing the entry or employment of such an alien.
(2) If the alien has already commenced employment in the United States and is participating in a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers, whether or not such strike or other labor dispute has been certified by the Department of Labor, or whether USCIS has been otherwise informed that such a strike or labor dispute is in progress, the alien shall not be deemed to be failing to maintain his or her status solely on account of past, present, or future participation in a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers, but is subject to the following terms and conditions:
(i) The alien shall remain subject to all applicable provisions of the Immigration and Nationality Act and regulations promulgated in the same manner as all other TN nonimmigrants;
(ii) The status and authorized period of stay of such an alien is not modified or extended in any way by virtue of his or her participation in a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers; and
(iii) Although participation by a TN nonimmigrant alien in a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers will not constitute a ground for removal, any alien who violates his or her status or who remains in the United States after his or her authorized period of stay has expired will be subject to removal.
(3) If there is a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers in progress but such strike or other labor dispute is not certified under paragraph (k)(1) of this section, or USCIS has not otherwise been informed by the Secretary that such a strike or labor dispute is in progress, Director of USCIS shall not deny a petition or deny entry to an applicant for TN status based upon such strike or other labor dispute.
[58 FR 69212, Dec. 30, 1993, as amended at 63 FR 1335, Jan. 9, 1998; 69 FR 11289, Mar. 10, 2004; 69 FR 60941, Oct. 13, 2004; 73 FR 61334, Oct. 16, 2008; 78 FR 18472, Mar. 27, 2013; 85 FR 46925, Aug. 3, 2020; 87 FR 41030, July 11, 2022]
§ 214.7
Habitual residence in the territories and possessions of the United States and consequences thereof.
(a)
Definitions.
As used in this section, the term:
(1)
Compacts
means the agreements of free association between the United States and the governments of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, and Palau, approved by Public Law 99-239 with respect to the governments of the Republic of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia, and by Public Law 99-658, with respect to Palau.
(2)
Freely associated states (FAS)
means the following parts of the former Trust Territories of the Pacific Islands, namely, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, and Palau.
(3)
Territories and possessions of the United States
means all territories and possessions of the United States to which the Act applies, including those commonwealths of the United States that are not States. It does not include American Samoa, as long as the Act does not apply to it.
(4)(i)
Habitual resident
means a citizen of the FAS who has been admitted to a territory or possession of the United States (other than American Samoa, as long as the Act is not applicable to it) pursuant to section 141(a) of the Compacts and who occupies in such territory or possession a habitual residence as that term is defined in section 461 of the Compacts, namely a place of general abode or a principal, actual dwelling place of a continuing or lasting nature. The term “habitual resident” does not apply to:
(A) A person who has established a continuing residence in a territory or possession of the United States, but whose cumulative physical presence in the United States amounts to less than 365 days; or
(B) A dependent of a resident representative described in section 152 of the Compacts; or
(C) A person who entered the United States for the purpose of full-time studies as long as such person maintains that status.
(ii) Since the term “habitual” resident requires that the person have entered the United States pursuant to section 141(a) of the Compacts, the term does not apply to FAS citizens whose presence in the territories or possessions is based on an authority other than section 141(a), such as:
(A) Members of the Armed Forces of the United States described in 8 CFR § 235.1(c);
(B) Persons lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States; or
(C) Persons having nonimmigrant status whose entry into the United States is based on provisions of the Compacts or the Act other than section 141(a) of the Compacts.
(5)
Dependent
means a citizen of the FAS, as defined in section 141(a) of the Compacts, who:
(i) Is a habitual resident;
(ii) Resides with a principal habitual resident;
(iii) Relies for financial support on that principal habitual resident; and
(iv) Is either the parent, spouse, or unmarried child under the age of 21 of the principal habitual resident or the parent or child of the spouse of the principal habitual resident.
(6)
Principal habitual resident
means a habitual resident with whom one or more dependents reside and on whom dependent(s) rely for financial support.
(7)
Self-supporting
means:
(i) Having a lawful occupation of a current and continuing nature that provides 40 hours of gainful employment each week. A part-time student attending an accredited college or institution of higher learning in a territory or possession of the United States receives for each college or graduate credit-hour of study a three-hour credit toward the 40-hour requirement; or
(ii) If the person cannot meet the 40-hour employment requirement, having lawfully derived funds that meet or exceed 100 percent of the official poverty guidelines for Hawaii for a family unit of the appropriate size as published annually by the Department of Health and Human Services.
(8)
Receipt of unauthorized public benefits
means the acceptance of public benefits by fraud or willful misrepresentation in violation of section 401 or 411 of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996, Public Law 104-193, 110 Stat. 2261, 2268, as amended by sections 5561 and 5565 of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, Public Law 105-33, 111 Stat. 638. 639.
(b)
Where do these rules regarding habitual residence apply?
The rules in this section apply to habitual residents living in a territory or possession of the United States to which the Act applies. Those territories and possessions are at present Guam, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the American Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. These rules do not apply to habitual residents living in American Samoa as long as the Act does not extend to it. These rules are not applicable to habitual residents living in the fifty States or the District of Columbia.
(c)
When is an arriving FAS citizen presumed to be a habitual resident?
(1) An arriving FAS citizen will be subject to the rebuttable presumption that he or she is a habitual resident if the Service has reason to believe that the arriving FAS citizen was previously admitted to the territory or possession more than one year ago; and
(2) That the arriving FAS citizen either;
(i) Failed to turn in his or her Form I-94 (see § 1.4) when he or she previously departed from the United States; or
(ii) Failed to apply for a replacement Form I-94.
(d)
What rights do habitual residents have?
Habitual residents have the right to enter, reside, study, and work in the United States, its territories or possessions, in nonimmigrant status without regard to the requirements of sections 212(a)(5)(A) and 212(a)(7)(A) and (B) of the Act.
(e)
What are the limitations on the rights of habitual residents?
(1) A habitual resident who is not a dependent is subject to removal if he or she:
(i) Is not and has not been self-supporting for a period exceeding 60 consecutive days for reasons other than a lawful strike or other labor dispute involving work stoppage; or
(ii) Has received unauthorized public benefits by fraud or willful misrepresentation; or
(iii) Is subject to removal pursuant to section 237 of the Act, or any other provision of the Act.
(2) Any dependent is removable from a territory or possession of the United States if:
(i) The principal habitual resident who financially supports him or her and with whom he or she resides, becomes subject to removal unless the dependent establishes that he or she has become a dependent of another habitual resident or becomes self-supporting; or
(ii) The dependent, as an individual, receives unauthorized public benefits by fraud or willful misrepresentation; or
(iii) The dependent, as an individual, is subject to removal pursuant to section 237 of the Act, or any other provision of the Act.
[65 FR 56465, Sept. 19, 2000, as amended at 74 FR 55738, Oct. 28, 2009; 78 FR 18472, Mar. 27, 2013]
§§ 214.8-214.10
[Reserved]
§ 214.11
Former regulations for noncitizen victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons.
For DHS and USCIS regulations governing Noncitizen Victims of Severe Forms of Trafficking in Persons, see subpart C of this part.
[89 FR 34931, Apr. 30, 2024]
§ 214.12
[Reserved]
§ 214.13
SEVIS fee for certain F, J, and M nonimmigrants.
(a)
Applicability.
The aliens in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section are required to submit a payment in the amount indicated for their status to the Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP) in advance of obtaining nonimmigrant status as an F or M student or J exchange visitor, in addition to any other applicable fees, except as otherwise provided for in this section:
(1) An alien who applies for F-1 or F-3 status in order to enroll in a program of study at an SEVP-certified institution of higher education, as defined in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, or in a program of study at any other SEVP-certified academic or language training institution, including private elementary, middle, and secondary schools and public secondary schools, the amount of $350;
(2) An alien who applies for J-1 status in order to commence participation in an exchange visitor program designated by the Department of State, the amount of $220, with a reduced fee for certain exchange visitor categories as provided in paragraphs (b)(1) and (c) of this section; and
(3) An alien who applies for M-1 or M-3 status in order to enroll in a program of study at an SEVP-certified vocational educational institution, including a flight school, in the amount of $350.
(b)
Aliens not subject to a fee.
No SEVIS fee is required with respect to:
(1) A J-1 exchange visitor who is coming to the United States as a participant in an exchange visitor program sponsored by the Federal government, identified by a program identifier designation prefix of G-1, G-2, G-3, or G-7;
(2) Dependents of F, M, or J nonimmigrants. The principal alien must pay the fee, when required under this section, in order for his/her qualifying dependents to obtain F-2, J-2, or M-2 status. However, an F-2, J-2, or M-2 dependent is not required to pay a separate fee under this section in order to obtain that status or during the time he/she remains in that status.
(c)
Special Fee for Certain J-1 Nonimmigrants.
A J-1 exchange visitor coming to the United States as an au pair, camp counselor, or participant in a summer work/travel program is subject to a fee of $35.
(d)
Time for payment of SEVIS fee.
An alien who is subject to payment of the SEVIS fee must remit the fee directly to DHS as follows:
(1) An alien seeking an F-1, F-3, J-1, M-1, or M-3 visa from a consular officer abroad for initial attendance at an SEVP-certified school or to commence participation in a Department of State-designated exchange visitor program, must pay the fee to DHS before issuance of the visa.
(2) An alien who is exempt from the visa requirement described in section 212(d)(4) of the Act must pay the fee to DHS before the alien applies for admission at a U.S. port-of-entry to begin initial attendance at an SEVP-certified school or initial participation in a Department of State-designated exchange visitor program.
(3) A nonimmigrant alien in the United States seeking a change of status to F-1, F-3, J-1, M-1, or M-3 must pay the fee to DHS before the alien is granted the change of nonimmigrant status, except as provided in paragraph (e)(4) of this section.
(4) A J-1 nonimmigrant who is applying for a change of program category within the United States, in accordance with 22 CFR 62.42, must pay the
fee associated with that new category, if any, prior to being granted such a change.
(5) A J-1 nonimmigrant initially granted J-1 status to participate in a program sponsored by the Federal government, as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and transferring in accordance with 22 CFR 62.42 to a program that is not similarly sponsored, must pay the fee associated with the new program prior to completing the transfer.
(6) A J-1 nonimmigrant who is applying for reinstatement after a substantive violation of status, or who has been out of program status for longer than 120 days but less than 270 days during the course of his/her program must pay a new fee to DHS, if applicable, prior to being granted a reinstatement to valid J-1 status.
(7) An F or M student who is applying for reinstatement of student status because of a violation of status, and who has been out of status for a period of time that exceeds the presumptive ineligibility deadline set forth in 8 CFR 214.2(f)(16)(i)(A) or (m)(16)(i)(A), must pay a new fee to DHS prior to being granted a return to valid status.
(8) An F-1, F-3, M-1, or M-3 nonimmigrant who has been absent from the United States for a period that exceeds 5 months in duration, and wishes to reenter the United States to engage in further study in the same course of study, with the exception of students who have been working toward completion of a U.S. course of study in authorized overseas study, must pay a new fee to DHS prior to being granted student status.
(e)
Circumstances where no new fee is required.
(1) Extension of stay, transfer, or optional practical training for students. An F-1, F-3, M-1, or M-3 nonimmigrant is not required to pay a new fee in connection with:
(i) An application for an extension of stay, as provided in 8 CFR 214.2(f)(7) or (m)(10);
(ii) An application for transfer, as provided in 8 CFR 214.2(f)(8) or (m)(11);
(iii) A change in educational level, as provided in 8 CFR 214.2(f)(5)(ii); or
(iv) An application for post-completion practical training, as provided in 8 CFR 214.2(f)(10)(ii) or (m)(14).
(2) Extension of program or transfer for exchange visitors. A J-1 nonimmigrant is not required to pay a new fee in connection with:
(i) An application for an extension of program, as provided in 22 CFR 62.43; or
(ii) An application for transfer of program, as provided in 22 CFR 62.42.
(3) Visa issuance for a continuation of study. An F-1, F-3, J-1, M-1, or M-3 nonimmigrant who has previously paid the fee is not required to pay a new fee in order to be granted a visa to return to the United States as a continuing student or exchange visitor in a single course of study, so long as the nonimmigrant is not otherwise required to pay a new fee in accordance with the other provisions in this section.
(4) Certain changes in student classification.
(i) No fee is required for changes between the F-1 and F-3 classifications, and no fee is required for changes between the M-1 and M-3 classifications.
(ii) Institutional reclassification. DHS retains the discretionary authority to waive the additional fee requirement when a nonimmigrant changes classification between F and M, if the change of status is due solely to institutional reclassification by the Student and Exchange Visitor Program during that nonimmigrant's course of study.
(5) Re-application following denial of application by consular officer. An alien who fully paid a SEVIS fee in connection with an initial application for an F-1, F-3, M-1, or M-3 visa, or a J-1 visa in a particular program category, whose initial application was denied, and who is reapplying for the same status, or the same J-1 exchange visitor category, within 12 months following the initial notice of denial is not required to repay the SEVIS fee.
(6) Re-application following denial of an application for a change of status. A nonimmigrant who fully paid a SEVIS fee in connection with an initial application for a change of status within in the United States to F-1, F-3, M-1, or M-3 classification, or for a change of status to a particular J-1 exchange visitor category, whose initial application was denied, and who is granted a motion to reopen the denied case is not required to repay the SEVIS fee if the
motion to reopen is granted within 12 months of receipt of initial notice of denial.
(f) [Reserved]
(g)
Procedures for payment of the SEVIS fee
—(1)
Options for payment.
An alien subject to payment of a fee under this section may pay the fee by any procedure approved by DHS, including:
(i) Submission of Form I-901, to DHS by mail, along with the proper fee paid by check, money order, or foreign draft drawn on a financial institution in the United States and payable in United States currency, as provided by 8 CFR 103.7(d)(8);
(ii) Electronic submission of Form I-901 to DHS using a credit card or other electronic means of payment accepted by DHS; or,
(iii) A designated payment service and receipt mechanism approved and set forth in future guidance by DHS.
(2)
Receipts.
DHS will provide a receipt for each fee payment under paragraph (g)(1) of this section until such time as DHS issues a notice in the
Federal Register
that paper receipts will no longer be necessary. Further receipt provisions include:
(i) DHS will provide for an expedited delivery of the receipt, upon request and receipt of an additional fee;
(ii) If payment was made electronically, both DHS and the Department of State will accept a properly completed receipt that is printed-out electronically, in lieu of the receipt generated by DHS;
(iii) If payment was made through an approved payment service, DHS and the Department of State will accept a properly completed receipt issued by the payment service, in lieu of the receipt generated by DHS.
(3)
Electronic record of fee payment.
DHS will maintain an electronic record of payment for the alien as verification of receipt of the required fee under this section. If DHS records indicate that the fee has been paid, an alien who has lost or did not receive a receipt for a fee payment under this section will not be denied an immigration benefit, including visa issuance or admission to the United States, solely because of a failure to present a paper receipt of fee payment.
(4)
Third-party payments.
DHS will accept payment of the required fee for an alien from a certified school or a designated exchange visitor program sponsor, or from another source, in accordance with procedures approved by DHS.
(h)
Failure to pay the fee.
The failure to pay the required fee is grounds for denial of F, M, or J nonimmigrant status or status-related benefits. Payment of the fee does not preserve the lawful status of any F, J, or M nonimmigrant that has violated his or her status in some other manner.
(1) For purposes of reinstatement to F or M status, failure to pay the required fee will be considered a “willful violation” under 8 CFR 214.2(f)(16) or (m)(16), unless DHS determines that there are sufficient extenuating circumstances (as determined at the discretion of the Student and Exchange Visitor Program).
(2) For purposes of reinstatement to valid J program status, failure to pay the required fee will not be considered a “minor or technical infraction” under 22 CFR 62.45.
[69 FR 39825, July 1, 2004; 69 FR 41388, July 9, 2004, as amended at 73 FR 55704, Sept. 26, 2008; 84 FR 23979, May 23, 2019; 87 FR 75911, Dec. 12, 2022]
§ 214.14
Alien victims of certain qualifying criminal activity.
(a)
Definitions.
As used in this section, the term:
(1)
BIWPA
means Battered Immigrant Women Protection Act of 2000 of the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000, div. B, Violence Against Women Act of 2000, tit. V, Pub. L. 106-386, 114 Stat. 1464, (2000),
amended by
Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, tit. VIII, Pub. L. 109-162, 119 Stat. 2960 (2006),
amended by
Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act—Technical Corrections, Pub. L. 109-271, 120 Stat. 750 (2006).
(2)
Certifying agency
means a Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, prosecutor, judge, or other authority, that has responsibility for the investigation or prosecution of a qualifying crime or criminal activity. This definition includes agencies that have criminal investigative jurisdiction in
their respective areas of expertise, including, but not limited to, child protective services, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, and the Department of Labor.
(3)
Certifying official
means:
(i) The head of the certifying agency, or any person(s) in a supervisory role who has been specifically designated by the head of the certifying agency to issue U nonimmigrant status certifications on behalf of that agency; or
(ii) A Federal, State, or local judge.
(4)
Indian Country
is defined as:
(i) All land within the limits of any Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the United States Government, notwithstanding the issuance of any patent, and including rights-of-way running through the reservation;
(ii) All dependent Indian communities within the borders of the United States whether within the original or subsequently acquired territory thereof, and whether within or without the limits of a state; and
(iii) All Indian allotments, the Indian titles to which have not been extinguished, including rights-of-way running through such allotments.
(5)
Investigation or prosecution
refers to the detection or investigation of a qualifying crime or criminal activity, as well as to the prosecution, conviction, or sentencing of the perpetrator of the qualifying crime or criminal activity.
(6)
Military Installation
means any facility, base, camp, post, encampment, station, yard, center, port, aircraft, vehicle, or vessel under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense, including any leased facility, or any other location under military control.
(7)
Next friend
means a person who appears in a lawsuit to act for the benefit of an alien under the age of 16 or incapacitated or incompetent, who has suffered substantial physical or mental abuse as a result of being a victim of qualifying criminal activity. The next friend is not a party to the legal proceeding and is not appointed as a guardian.
(8)
Physical or mental abuse
means injury or harm to the victim's physical person, or harm to or impairment of the emotional or psychological soundness of the victim.
(9)
Qualifying crime or qualifying criminal activity
includes one or more of the following or any similar activities in violation of Federal, State or local criminal law of the United States: Rape; torture; trafficking; incest; domestic violence; sexual assault; abusive sexual contact; prostitution; sexual exploitation; female genital mutilation; being held hostage; peonage; involuntary servitude; slave trade; kidnapping; abduction; unlawful criminal restraint; false imprisonment; blackmail; extortion; manslaughter; murder; felonious assault; witness tampering; obstruction of justice; perjury; or attempt, conspiracy, or solicitation to commit any of the above mentioned crimes. The term “any similar activity” refers to criminal offenses in which the nature and elements of the offenses are substantially similar to the statutorily enumerated list of criminal activities.
(10)
Qualifying family member
means, in the case of an alien victim 21 years of age or older who is eligible for U nonimmigrant status as described in section 101(a)(15)(U) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(U), the spouse or child(ren) of such alien; and, in the case of an alien victim under the age of 21 who is eligible for U nonimmigrant status as described in section 101(a)(15)(U) of the Act,
qualifying family member
means the spouse, child(ren), parents, or unmarried siblings under the age of 18 of such an alien.
(11)
Territories and Possessions of the United States
means American Samoa, Swains Island, Bajo Nuevo (the Petrel Islands), Baker Island, Howland Island, Jarvis Island, Johnston Atoll, Kingman Reef, Midway Atoll, Navassa Island, Palmyra Atoll, Serranilla Bank, and Wake Atoll.
(12)
U nonimmigrant status certification
means Form I-918, Supplement B, “U Nonimmigrant Status Certification,” which confirms that the petitioner has been helpful, is being helpful, or is likely to be helpful in the investigation or prosecution of the qualifying criminal activity of which he or she is a victim.
(13)
U interim relief
refers to the interim benefits that were provided by USCIS to petitioners for U nonimmigrant status, who requested such
benefits and who were deemed prima facie eligible for U nonimmigrant status prior to the publication of the implementing regulations.
(14)
Victim of qualifying criminal activity
generally means an alien who has suffered direct and proximate harm as a result of the commission of qualifying criminal activity.
(i) The alien spouse, children under 21 years of age and, if the direct victim is under 21 years of age, parents and unmarried siblings under 18 years of age, will be considered victims of qualifying criminal activity where the direct victim is deceased due to murder or manslaughter, or is incompetent or incapacitated, and therefore unable to provide information concerning the criminal activity or be helpful in the investigation or prosecution of the criminal activity. For purposes of determining eligibility under this definition, USCIS will consider the age of the victim at the time the qualifying criminal activity occurred.
(ii) A petitioner may be considered a victim of witness tampering, obstruction of justice, or perjury, including any attempt, solicitation, or conspiracy to commit one or more of those offenses, if:
(A) The petitioner has been directly and proximately harmed by the perpetrator of the witness tampering, obstruction of justice, or perjury; and
(B) There are reasonable grounds to conclude that the perpetrator committed the witness tampering, obstruction of justice, or perjury offense, at least in principal part, as a means:
(
1
) To avoid or frustrate efforts to investigate, arrest, prosecute, or otherwise bring to justice the perpetrator for other criminal activity; or
(
2
) To further the perpetrator's abuse or exploitation of or undue control over the petitioner through manipulation of the legal system.
(iii) A person who is culpable for the qualifying criminal activity being investigated or prosecuted is excluded from being recognized as a victim of qualifying criminal activity.
(b)
Eligibility.
An alien is eligible for U-1 nonimmigrant status if he or she demonstrates all of the following in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section:
(1) The alien has suffered substantial physical or mental abuse as a result of having been a victim of qualifying criminal activity. Whether abuse is substantial is based on a number of factors, including but not limited to: The nature of the injury inflicted or suffered; the severity of the perpetrator's conduct; the severity of the harm suffered; the duration of the infliction of the harm; and the extent to which there is permanent or serious harm to the appearance, health, or physical or mental soundness of the victim, including aggravation of pre-existing conditions. No single factor is a prerequisite to establish that the abuse suffered was substantial. Also, the existence of one or more of the factors automatically does not create a presumption that the abuse suffered was substantial. A series of acts taken together may be considered to constitute substantial physical or mental abuse even where no single act alone rises to that level;
(2) The alien possesses credible and reliable information establishing that he or she has knowledge of the details concerning the qualifying criminal activity upon which his or her petition is based. The alien must possess specific facts regarding the criminal activity leading a certifying official to determine that the petitioner has, is, or is likely to provide assistance to the investigation or prosecution of the qualifying criminal activity. In the event that the alien has not yet reached 16 years of age on the date on which an act constituting an element of the qualifying criminal activity first occurred, a parent, guardian or next friend of the alien may possess the information regarding a qualifying crime. In addition, if the alien is incapacitated or incompetent, a parent, guardian, or next friend may possess the information regarding the qualifying crime;
(3) The alien has been helpful, is being helpful, or is likely to be helpful to a certifying agency in the investigation or prosecution of the qualifying criminal activity upon which his or her petition is based, and since the initiation of cooperation, has not refused or failed to provide information and assistance reasonably requested. In the event that the alien has not yet
reached 16 years of age on the date on which an act constituting an element of the qualifying criminal activity first occurred, a parent, guardian or next friend of the alien may provide the required assistance. In addition, if the petitioner is incapacitated or incompetent and, therefore, unable to be helpful in the investigation or prosecution of the qualifying criminal activity, a parent, guardian, or next friend may provide the required assistance; and
(4) The qualifying criminal activity occurred in the United States (including Indian country and U.S. military installations) or in the territories or possessions of the United States, or violated a U.S. federal law that provides for extraterritorial jurisdiction to prosecute the offense in a U.S. federal court.
(c)
Application procedures for U nonimmigrant status
—(1)
Filing a petition.
USCIS has sole jurisdiction over all petitions for U nonimmigrant status. An alien seeking U-1 nonimmigrant status must submit a Petition for U Nonimmigrant Status on the form prescribed by USCIS, and initial evidence to USCIS in accordance with this paragraph (c)(1) and the form instructions. A petitioner who received interim relief is not required to submit initial evidence with a Petition for U Nonimmigrant Status if he or she is relying on the law enforcement certification and other evidence that was submitted with the request for interim relief.
(i)
Petitioners in pending immigration proceedings.
An alien who is in removal proceedings under section 240 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1229a, or in exclusion or deportation proceedings initiated under former sections 236 or 242 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1226 and 1252 (as in effect prior to April 1, 1997), and who would like to apply for U nonimmigrant status must file a Form I-918 directly with USCIS. U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) counsel may agree, as a matter of discretion, to file, at the request of the alien petitioner, a joint motion to terminate proceedings without prejudice with the immigration judge or Board of Immigration Appeals, whichever is appropriate, while a petition for U nonimmigrant status is being adjudicated by USCIS.
(ii)
Petitioners with final orders of removal, deportation, or exclusion.
An alien who is the subject of a final order of removal, deportation, or exclusion is not precluded from filing a petition for U-1 nonimmigrant status directly with USCIS. The filing of a petition for U-1 nonimmigrant status has no effect on ICE's authority to execute a final order, although the alien may file a request for a stay of removal pursuant to 8 CFR 241.6(a) and 8 CFR 1241.6(a). If the alien is in detention pending execution of the final order, the time during which a stay is in effect will extend the period of detention (under the standards of 8 CFR 241.4) reasonably necessary to bring about the petitioner's removal.
(2)
Initial evidence.
Form I-918 must include the following initial evidence:
(i) Form I-918, Supplement B, “U Nonimmigrant Status Certification,” signed by a certifying official within the six months immediately preceding the filing of Form I-918. The certification must state that: the person signing the certificate is the head of the certifying agency, or any person(s) in a supervisory role who has been specifically designated by the head of the certifying agency to issue U nonimmigrant status certifications on behalf of that agency, or is a Federal, State, or local judge; the agency is a Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or prosecutor, judge or other authority, that has responsibility for the detection, investigation, prosecution, conviction, or sentencing of qualifying criminal activity; the applicant has been a victim of qualifying criminal activity that the certifying official's agency is investigating or prosecuting; the petitioner possesses information concerning the qualifying criminal activity of which he or she has been a victim; the petitioner has been, is being, or is likely to be helpful to an investigation or prosecution of that qualifying criminal activity; and the qualifying criminal activity violated U.S. law, or occurred in the United States, its territories, its possessions, Indian country, or at military installations abroad.
(ii) Any additional evidence that the petitioner wants USCIS to consider to establish that: the petitioner is a victim of qualifying criminal activity; the petitioner has suffered substantial physical or mental abuse as a result of being a victim of qualifying criminal activity; the petitioner (or, in the case of a child under the age of 16 or petitioner who is incompetent or incapacitated, a parent, guardian or next friend of the petitioner) possesses information establishing that he or she has knowledge of the details concerning the qualifying criminal activity of which he or she was a victim and upon which his or her application is based; the petitioner (or, in the case of a child under the age of 16 or petitioner who is incompetent or incapacitated, a parent, guardian or next friend of the petitioner) has been helpful, is being helpful, or is likely to be helpful to a Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, prosecutor, or authority, or Federal or State judge, investigating or prosecuting the criminal activity of which the petitioner is a victim; or the criminal activity is qualifying and occurred in the United States (including Indian country and U.S. military installations) or in the territories or possessions of the United States, or violates a U.S. federal law that provides for extraterritorial jurisdiction to prosecute the offense in a U.S. federal court;
(iii) A signed statement by the petitioner describing the facts of the victimization. The statement also may include information supporting any of the eligibility requirements set out in paragraph (b) of this section. When the petitioner is under the age of 16, incapacitated, or incompetent, a parent, guardian, or next friend may submit a statement on behalf of the petitioner; and
(iv) If the petitioner is inadmissible, Form I-192, “Application for Advance Permission to Enter as Non-Immigrant,” in accordance with 8 CFR 212.17.
(3)
Biometric capture.
All petitioners for U-1 nonimmigrant status must submit to biometric capture and pay a biometric capture fee. USCIS will notify the petitioner of the proper time and location to appear for biometric capture after the petitioner files Form I-918.
(4)
Evidentiary standards and burden of proof.
The burden shall be on the petitioner to demonstrate eligibility for U-1 nonimmigrant status. The petitioner may submit any credible evidence relating to his or her Form I-918 for consideration by USCIS. USCIS shall conduct a de novo review of all evidence submitted in connection with Form I-918 and may investigate any aspect of the petition. Evidence previously submitted for this or other immigration benefit or relief may be used by USCIS in evaluating the eligibility of a petitioner for U-1 nonimmigrant status. However, USCIS will not be bound by its previous factual determinations. USCIS will determine, in its sole discretion, the evidentiary value of previously or concurrently submitted evidence, including Form I-918, Supplement B, “U Nonimmigrant Status Certification.”
(5)
Decision.
After completing its de novo review of the petition and evidence, USCIS will issue a written decision approving or denying Form I-918 and notify the petitioner of this decision. USCIS will include in a decision approving Form I-918 a list of nongovernmental organizations to which the petitioner can refer regarding his or her options while in the United States and available resources.
(i)
Approval of Form I-918, generally.
If USCIS determines that the petitioner has met the requirements for U-1 nonimmigrant status, USCIS will approve Form I-918. For a petitioner who is within the United States, USCIS also will concurrently grant U-1 nonimmigrant status, subject to the annual limitation as provided in paragraph (d) of this section. For a petitioner who is subject to an order of exclusion, deportation, or removal issued by the Secretary, the order will be deemed canceled by operation of law as of the date of USCIS' approval of Form I-918. A petitioner who is subject to an order of exclusion, deportation, or removal issued by an immigration judge or the Board may seek cancellation of such order by filing, with the immigration judge or the Board, a motion to reopen and terminate removal proceedings. ICE counsel may agree, as a
matter of discretion, to join such a motion to overcome any applicable time and numerical limitations of 8 CFR 1003.2 and 1003.23.
(A)
Notice of Approval of Form I-918 for U-1 petitioners within the United States.
After USCIS approves Form I-918 for an alien who filed his or her petition from within the United States, USCIS will notify the alien of such approval on Form I-797, “Notice of Action,” and include Form I-94 (see § 1.4), “Arrival-Departure Record,” indicating U-1 nonimmigrant status.
(B)
Notice of Approval of Form I-918 for U-1 petitioners outside the United States.
After USCIS approves Form I-918 for an alien who filed his or her petition from outside the United States, USCIS will notify the alien of such approval on Form I-797, “Notice of Action,” and will forward notice to the Department of State for delivery to the U.S. Embassy or Consulate having jurisdiction over the area in which the alien is located, or, for a visa exempt alien, to the appropriate port of entry.
(ii)
Denial of Form I-918.
USCIS will provide written notification to the petitioner of the reasons for the denial. The petitioner may appeal a denial of Form I-918 to the Administrative Appeals Office (AAO) in accordance with the provisions of 8 CFR 103.3. For petitioners who appeal a denial of their Form I-918 to the AAO, the denial will not be deemed administratively final until the AAO issues a decision affirming the denial. Upon USCIS' final denial of a petition for a petitioner who was in removal proceedings that were terminated pursuant to 8 CFR 214.14(c)(1)(i), DHS may file a new Notice to Appear (see section 239 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1229) to place the individual in proceedings again. For petitioners who are subject to an order of removal, deportation, or exclusion and whose order has been stayed, USCIS' denial of the petition will result in the stay being lifted automatically as of the date the denial becomes administratively final.
(6)
Petitioners granted U interim relief.
Petitioners who were granted U interim relief as defined in paragraph (a)(13) of this section and whose Form I-918 is approved will be accorded U-1 nonimmigrant status as of the date that a request for U interim relief was initially approved.
(7)
Employment authorization.
An alien granted U-1 nonimmigrant status is employment authorized incident to status. USCIS automatically will issue an initial Employment Authorization Document (EAD) to such aliens who are in the United States. For principal aliens who applied from outside the United States, the initial EAD will not be issued until the petitioner has been admitted to the United States in U nonimmigrant status. After admission, the alien may receive an initial EAD, upon request and submission of a copy of his or her Form I-94, “Arrival-Departure Record,” to the USCIS office having jurisdiction over the adjudication of petitions for U nonimmigrant status. No additional fee is required. An alien granted U-1 nonimmigrant status seeking to renew his or her expiring EAD or replace an EAD that was lost, stolen, or destroyed, must file Form I-765 in accordance with the instructions to the form.
(d)
Annual cap on U-1 nonimmigrant status
—(1)
General.
In accordance with section 214(p)(2) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1184(p)(2), the total number of aliens who may be issued a U-1 nonimmigrant visa or granted U-1 nonimmigrant status may not exceed 10,000 in any fiscal year.
(2)
Waiting list.
All eligible petitioners who, due solely to the cap, are not granted U-1 nonimmigrant status must be placed on a waiting list and receive written notice of such placement. Priority on the waiting list will be determined by the date the petition was filed with the oldest petitions receiving the highest priority. In the next fiscal year, USCIS will issue a number to each petition on the waiting list, in the order of highest priority, providing the petitioner remains admissible and eligible for U nonimmigrant status. After U-1 nonimmigrant status has been issued to qualifying petitioners on the waiting list, any remaining U-1 nonimmigrant numbers for that fiscal year will be issued to new qualifying petitioners in the order that the petitions were properly filed. USCIS will grant deferred action or parole to U-1 petitioners and qualifying family members while the U-1 petitioners are on the
waiting list. USCIS, in its discretion, may authorize employment for such petitioners and qualifying family members.
(3)
Unlawful presence.
During the time a petitioner for U nonimmigrant status who was granted deferred action or parole is on the waiting list, no accrual of unlawful presence under section 212(a)(9)(B) of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(9)(B), will result. However, a petitioner may be removed from the waiting list, and the deferred action or parole may be terminated at the discretion of USCIS.
(e)
Restrictions on use and disclosure of information relating to petitioners for U nonimmigrant classification
—(1)
General.
The use or disclosure (other than to a sworn officer or employee of DHS, the Department of Justice, the Department of State, or a bureau or agency of any of those departments, for legitimate department, bureau, or agency purposes) of any information relating to the beneficiary of a pending or approved petition for U nonimmigrant status is prohibited unless the disclosure is made:
(i) By the Secretary of Homeland Security, at his discretion, in the same manner and circumstances as census information may be disclosed by the Secretary of Commerce under 13 U.S.C. 8;
(ii) By the Secretary of Homeland Security, at his discretion, to law enforcement officials to be used solely for a legitimate law enforcement purpose;
(iii) In conjunction with judicial review of a determination in a manner that protects the confidentiality of such information;
(iv) After adult petitioners for U nonimmigrant status or U nonimmigrant status holders have provided written consent to waive the restrictions prohibiting the release of information;
(v) To Federal, State, and local public and private agencies providing benefits, to be used solely in making determinations of eligibility for benefits pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1641(c);
(vi) After a petition for U nonimmigrant status has been denied in a final decision;
(vii) To the chairmen and ranking members of the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate or the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives, for the exercise of congressional oversight authority, provided the disclosure relates to information about a closed case and is made in a manner that protects the confidentiality of the information and omits personally identifying information (including locational information about individuals);
(viii) With prior written consent from the petitioner or derivative family members, to nonprofit, nongovernmental victims' service providers for the sole purpose of assisting the victim in obtaining victim services from programs with expertise working with immigrant victims; or
(ix) To federal prosecutors to comply with constitutional obligations to provide statements by witnesses and certain other documents to defendants in pending federal criminal proceedings.
(2) Agencies receiving information under this section, whether governmental or non-governmental, are bound by the confidentiality provisions and other restrictions set out in 8 U.S.C. 1367.
(3) Officials of the Department of Homeland Security are prohibited from making adverse determinations of admissibility or deportability based on information obtained solely from the perpetrator of substantial physical or mental abuse and the criminal activity.
(f)
Admission of qualifying family members
—(1)
Eligibility.
An alien who has petitioned for or has been granted U-1 nonimmigrant status (
i.e.
, principal alien) may petition for the admission of a qualifying family member in a U-2 (spouse), U-3 (child), U-4 (parent of a U-1 alien who is a child under 21 years of age), or U-5 (unmarried sibling under the age of 18) derivative status, if accompanying or following to join such principal alien. A qualifying family member who committed the qualifying criminal activity in a family violence or trafficking context which established the principal alien's eligibility for U nonimmigrant status shall not be granted U-2, U-3, U-4, or U-5 nonimmigrant status. To be eligible for U-2, U-3, U-4, or U-5 nonimmigrant status, it must be demonstrated that:
(i) The alien for whom U-2, U-3, U-4, or U-5 status is being sought is a qualifying family member, as defined in paragraph (a)(10) of this section; and
(ii) The qualifying family member is admissible to the United States.
(2)
Filing procedures.
A petitioner for U-1 nonimmigrant status may apply for derivative U nonimmigrant status on behalf of qualifying family members by submitting a Form I-918, Supplement A, “Petition for Qualifying Family Member of U-1 Recipient,” for each family member either at the same time the petition for U-1 nonimmigrant status is filed, or at a later date. An alien who has been granted U-1 nonimmigrant status may apply for derivative U nonimmigrant status on behalf of qualifying family members by submitting Form I-918, Supplement A for each family member. All Forms I-918, Supplement A must be accompanied by initial evidence and the required fees specified in the instructions to the form. Forms I-918, Supplement A that are not filed at the same time as Form I-918 but are filed at a later date must be accompanied by a copy of the Form I-918 that was filed by the principal petitioner or a copy of his or her Form I-94 demonstrating proof of U-1 nonimmigrant status, as applicable.
(i) Qualifying family members in pending immigration proceedings. The principal alien of a qualifying family member who is in removal proceedings under section 240 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1229a, or in exclusion or deportation proceedings initiated under former sections 236 or 242 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1226 and 1252 (as in effect prior to April 1, 1997), and who is seeking U nonimmigrant status, must file a Form I-918, Supplement A directly with USCIS. ICE counsel may agree to file, at the request of the qualifying family member, a joint motion to terminate proceedings without prejudice with the immigration judge or Board of Immigration Appeals, whichever is appropriate, while the petition for U nonimmigrant status is being adjudicated by USCIS.
(ii) Qualifying family members with final orders of removal, deportation, or exclusion. An alien who is the subject of a final order of removal, deportation, or exclusion is not precluded from filing a petition for U-2, U-3, U-4, or U-5 nonimmigrant status directly with USCIS. The filing of a petition for U-2, U-3, U-4, or U-5 nonimmigrant status has no effect on ICE's authority to execute a final order, although the alien may file a request for a stay of removal pursuant to 8 CFR 241.6(a) and 8 CFR 1241.6(a). If the alien is in detention pending execution of the final order, the time during which a stay is in effect will extend the period of detention (under the standards of 8 CFR 241.4) reasonably necessary to bring about the alien's removal.
(3)
Initial evidence.
Form I-918, Supplement A, must include the following initial evidence:
(i) Evidence demonstrating the relationship of a qualifying family member, as provided in paragraph (f)(4) of this section;
(ii) If the qualifying family member is inadmissible, Form I-192, “Application for Advance Permission to Enter as a Non-Immigrant,” in accordance with 8 CFR 212.17.
(4)
Relationship.
Except as set forth in paragraphs (f)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section, the relationship between the U-1 principal alien and the qualifying family member must exist at the time Form I-918 was filed, and the relationship must continue to exist at the time Form I-918, Supplement A is adjudicated, and at the time of the qualifying family member's subsequent admission to the United States.
(i) If the U-1 principal alien proves that he or she has become the parent of a child after Form I-918 was filed, the child shall be eligible to accompany or follow to join the U-1 principal alien.
(ii) If the principal alien was under 21 years of age at the time he or she filed Form I-918, and filed Form I-918, Supplement A for an unmarried sibling under the age of 18, USCIS will continue to consider such sibling as a qualifying family member for purposes of U nonimmigrant status even if the principal alien is no longer under 21 years of age at the time of adjudication, and even if the sibling is no longer under 18 years of age at the time of adjudication.
(5)
Biometric capture and evidentiary standards.
The provisions for biometric capture and evidentiary standards in
paragraphs (c)(3) and (c)(4) of this section also are applicable to petitions for qualifying family members.
(6)
Decision.
USCIS will issue a written decision approving or denying Form I-918, Supplement A and send notice of this decision to the U-1 principal petitioner. USCIS will include in a decision approving Form I-918 a list of nongovernmental organizations to which the qualifying family member can refer regarding his or her options while in the United States and available resources. For a qualifying family member who is subject to an order of exclusion, deportation, or removal issued by the Secretary, the order will be deemed canceled by operation of law as of the date of USCIS' approval of Form I-918, Supplement A. A qualifying family member who is subject to an order of exclusion, deportation, or removal issued by an immigration judge or the Board may seek cancellation of such order by filing, with the immigration judge or the Board, a motion to reopen and terminate removal proceedings. ICE counsel may agree, as a matter of discretion, to join such a motion to overcome any applicable time and numerical limitations of 8 CFR 1003.2 and 1003.23.
(i)
Approvals for qualifying family members within the United States.
When USCIS approves a Form I-918, Supplement A for a qualifying family member who is within the United States, it will concurrently grant that alien U-2, U-3, U-4, or U-5 nonimmigrant status. USCIS will notify the principal of such approval on Form I-797, “Notice of Action,” with Form I-94, “Arrival-Departure Record,” indicating U-2, U-3, U-4, or U-5 nonimmigrant status. Aliens who were previously granted U interim relief as defined in paragraph (a)(13) of this section will be accorded U nonimmigrant status as of the date that the request for U interim relief was approved. Aliens who are granted U-2, U-3, U-4, or U-5 nonimmigrant status are not subject to an annual numerical limit. USCIS may not approve Form I-918, Supplement A unless it has approved the principal alien's Form I-918.
(ii)
Approvals for qualifying family members outside the United States.
When USCIS approves Form I-918, Supplement A for a qualifying family member who is outside the United States, USCIS will notify the principal alien of such approval on Form I-797. USCIS will forward the approved Form I-918, Supplement A to the Department of State for delivery to the U.S. Embassy or Consulate having jurisdiction over the area in which the qualifying family member is located, or, for a visa exempt alien, to the appropriate port of entry.
(iii)
Denial of the Form I-918, Supplement A.
In accordance with 8 CFR 103.3(a)(1), USCIS will provide written notification of the reasons for the denial. The principal alien may appeal the denial of Form I-918, Supplement A to the Administrative Appeals Office in accordance with the provisions of 8 CFR 103.3. Upon USCIS' final denial of Form I-918, Supplement A for a qualifying family member who was in removal proceedings that were terminated pursuant to 8 CFR 214.14(f)(2)(i), DHS may file a new Notice to Appear (see section 239 of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1229) to place the individual in proceedings again. For qualifying family members who are subject to an order of removal, deportation, or exclusion and whose order has been stayed, USCIS' denial of the petition will result in the stay being lifted automatically as of the date the denial becomes administratively final.
(7)
Employment authorization.
An alien granted U-2, U-3, U-4, or U-5 nonimmigrant status is employment authorized incident to status. To obtain an Employment Authorization Document (EAD), such alien must file Form I-765, “Application for Employment Authorization,” with the appropriate fee or a request for a fee waiver, in accordance with the instructions to the form. For qualifying family members within the United States, the Form I-765 may be filed concurrently with Form I-918, Supplement A, or at any time thereafter. For qualifying family members who are outside the United States, Form I-765 only may be filed after admission to the United States in U nonimmigrant status.
(g)
Duration of U nonimmigrant status
—(1)
In general.
U nonimmigrant status may be approved for a period not to exceed 4 years in the aggregate. A qualifying family member granted
U-2, U-3, U-4, and U-5 nonimmigrant status will be approved for an initial period that does not exceed the expiration date of the initial period approved for the principal alien.
(2)
Extension of status.
(i) Where a U nonimmigrant's approved period of stay on Form I-94 is less than 4 years, he or she may file Form I-539, “Application to Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status,” to request an extension of U nonimmigrant status for an aggregate period not to exceed 4 years. USCIS may approve an extension of status for a qualifying family member beyond the date when the U-1 nonimmigrant's status expires when the qualifying family member is unable to enter the United States timely due to delays in consular processing, and an extension of status is necessary to ensure that the qualifying family member is able to attain at least 3 years in nonimmigrant status for purposes of adjusting status under section 245(m) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1255.
(ii) Extensions of U nonimmigrant status beyond the 4-year period are available upon attestation by the certifying official that the alien's presence in the United States continues to be necessary to assist in the investigation or prosecution of qualifying criminal activity. In order to obtain an extension of U nonimmigrant status based upon such an attestation, the alien must file Form I-539 and a newly executed Form I-918, Supplement B in accordance with the instructions to Form I-539.
(h)
Revocation of approved petitions for U nonimmigrant status
—(1)
Automatic revocation.
An approved petition for U-1 nonimmigrant status will be revoked automatically if, pursuant to 8 CFR 214.14(d)(1), the beneficiary of the approved petition notifies the USCIS office that approved the petition that he or she will not apply for admission to the United States and, therefore, the petition will not be used.
(2)
Revocation on notice.
(i) USCIS may revoke an approved petition for U nonimmigrant status following a notice of intent to revoke. USCIS may revoke an approved petition for U nonimmigrant status based on one or more of the following reasons:
(A) The certifying official withdraws the U nonimmigrant status certification referred to in 8 CFR 214.14(c)(2)(i) or disavows the contents in writing;
(B) Approval of the petition was in error;
(C) Where there was fraud in the petition;
(D) In the case of a U-2, U-3, U-4, or U-5 nonimmigrant, the relationship to the principal petitioner has terminated; or
(E) In the case of a U-2, U-3, U-4, or U-5 nonimmigrant, the principal U-1's nonimmigrant status is revoked.
(ii) The notice of intent to revoke must be in writing and contain a statement of the grounds for the revocation and the time period allowed for the U nonimmigrant's rebuttal. The alien may submit evidence in rebuttal within 30 days of the date of the notice. USCIS shall consider all relevant evidence presented in deciding whether to revoke the approved petition for U nonimmigrant status. The determination of what is relevant evidence and the weight to be given to that evidence will be within the sole discretion of USCIS. If USCIS revokes approval of a petition and thereby terminates U nonimmigrant status, USCIS will provide the alien with a written notice of revocation that explains the specific reasons for the revocation.
(3)
Appeal of a revocation of approval.
A revocation on notice may be appealed to the Administrative Appeals Office in accordance with 8 CFR 103.3 within 30 days after the date of the notice of revocation. Automatic revocations may not be appealed.
(4)
Effects of revocation of approval.
Revocation of a principal alien's approved Form I-918 will result in termination of status for the principal alien, as well as in the denial of any pending Form I-918, Supplement A filed for qualifying family members seeking U-2, U-3, U-4, or U-5 nonimmigrant status. Revocation of a qualifying family member's approved Form I-918, Supplement A will result in termination of status for the qualifying family member. Revocation of an approved Form I-918 or Form I-918, Supplement A also revokes any waiver of inadmissibility
granted in conjunction with such petition.
(i)
Removal proceedings.
Nothing in this section prohibits USCIS from instituting removal proceedings under section 240 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1229(a), for conduct committed after admission, for conduct or a condition that was not disclosed to USCIS prior to the granting of U nonimmigrant status, for misrepresentations of material facts in Form I-918 or Form I-918, Supplement A and supporting documentation, or after revocation of U nonimmigrant status.
[72 FR 53036, Sept. 17, 2007, as amended at 72 FR 54813, Sept. 27, 2007; 74 FR 55738, Oct. 28, 2009; 78 FR 18472, Mar. 27, 2013; 85 FR 46925, Aug. 3, 2020; 89 FR 6398, Jan. 31, 2024]
§ 214.15
Certain spouses and children of lawful permanent residents.
(a)
Aliens abroad.
Under section 101(a)(15)(v) of the Act, certain eligible spouses and children of lawful permanent residents may apply for a V nonimmigrant visa at a consular office abroad and be admitted to the United States in V-1 (spouse), V-2 (child), or V-3 (dependent child of the spouse or child who is accompanying or following to join the principal beneficiary) nonimmigrant status to await the approval of:
(1) A relative visa petition;
(2) The availability of an immigrant visa number; or
(3) Lawful permanent resident (LPR) status through adjustment of status or an immigrant visa.
(b)
Aliens already in the United States.
Eligible aliens already in the United States may apply to the Service to obtain V nonimmigrant status for the same purpose. Aliens in the United States in V nonimmigrant status are entitled to reside in the United States as V nonimmigrants and obtain employment authorization.
(c)
Eligibility.
Subject to section 214(o) of the Act, an alien who is the beneficiary (including a child of the principal alien, if eligible to receive a visa under section 203(d) of the Act) of an immigrant visa petition to accord a status under section 203(a)(2)(A) of the Act that was filed with the Service under section 204 of the Act on or before December 21, 2000, may apply for V nonimmigrant status if:
(1) Such immigrant visa petition has been pending for 3 years or more; or
(2) Such petition has been approved, and 3 or more years have passed since such filing date, in either of the following circumstances:
(i) An immigrant visa is not immediately available to the alien because of a waiting list of applicants for visas under section 203(a)(2)(A) of the Act; or
(ii) The alien's application for an immigrant visa, or the alien's application for adjustment of status under section 245 of the Act, pursuant to the approval of such petition, remains pending.
(d)
The definition of “pending petition.”
For purposes of this section, a pending petition is defined as a petition to accord a status under section 203(a)(2)(A) of the Act that was filed with USCIS under section 204 of the Act on or before December 21, 2000, and has not been adjudicated. In addition, the petition must have been properly filed according to 8 CFR 103.2(a), and if, subsequent to filing, USCIS returns the petition to the applicant for any reason or makes a request for evidence or issues a notice of intent to deny under 8 CFR 103.2(b), the petitioner must comply with the request within the time period set by USCIS. If USCIS denies a petition but the petitioner appeals that decision, the petition will be considered pending until the administrative appeal is decided by USCIS. A petition rejected by USCIS as not properly filed is not considered to be pending.
(e)
Classification process for aliens outside the United States
—(1)
V nonimmigrant visa.
An eligible alien may obtain a V nonimmigrant visa from the Department of State at a consular office abroad pursuant to the procedures set forth in 22 CFR 41.86.
(2)
Aliens applying for admission to the United States as a V nonimmigrant at a port-of-entry.
Aliens applying under section 235 of the Act for admission to the United States at a port-of-entry as a V nonimmigrant must have a visa in the appropriate category. Such aliens are exempt from the ground of inadmissibility under section 212(a)(9)(B) of the Act.
(f)
Application by aliens in the United States.
An alien described in paragraph (c) of this section who is in the United States may apply to the Service to obtain V nonimmigrant status pursuant to the procedures set forth in this section and 8 CFR part 248. The alien must be admissible to the United States, except that, in determining the alien's admissibility in V nonimmigrant status, sections 212(a)(6)(A), (a)(7), and (a)(9)(B) of the Act do not apply.
(1)
Contents of application.
To apply for V nonimmigrant status, an eligible alien must submit:
(i) Form I-539, Application to Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status, with the fee required by § 103.7(b)(1) of this chapter;
(ii) The fingerprint fee as required by § 103.2(e)(4) of this chapter;
(iii) Form I-693, Medical Examination of Aliens Seeking Adjustment of Status, without the vaccination supplement; and
(iv) Evidence of eligibility as described by Supplement A to Form I-539 and in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
(2)
Evidence.
Supplement A to Form I-539 provides instructions regarding the submission of evidence. An alien applying for V nonimmigrant status with the Service should submit proof of filing of the immigrant petition that qualifies the alien for V status. Proof of filing may include Form I-797, Notice of Action, which serves as a receipt of the petition or as a notice of approval, or a receipt for a filed petition or notice of approval issued by a local district office. If the alien does not have such proof, the Service will review other forms of evidence, such as correspondence to or from the Service regarding a pending petition. If the alien does not have any of the items previously mentioned in this paragraph, but believes he or she is eligible for V nonimmigrant status, he or she should state where and when the petition was filed, the name and alien number of the petitioner, and the names of all beneficiaries (if known).
(g)
Period of admission
—(1)
Spouse of an LPR.
An alien admitted to the United States in V-1 nonimmigrant status (or whose status in the United States is changed to V-1) will be granted a period of admission not to exceed 2 years.
(2)
Child of an LPR or derivative child.
An alien admitted to the United States in V-2 or V-3 nonimmigrant status (or whose status in the United States is changed to V-2 or V-3) will be granted a period of admission not to exceed 2 years or the day before the alien's 21st birthday, whichever comes first.
(3)
Extension of status.
An alien may apply to the Service for an extension of V nonimmigrant status pursuant to this part and 8 CFR part 248. Aliens may apply for the extension of V nonimmigrant status, submitting Form I-539, and the associated filing fee, on or before 120 days before the expiration of their status. If approved, the Service will grant an extension of status to aliens in V nonimmigrant status who remain eligible for V nonimmigrant status for a period not to exceed 2 years, or in the case of a child in V-2 or V-3 status, the day before the alien's 21st birthday, whichever comes first.
(4)
Special rules.
The following special rules apply with respect to aliens who have a current priority date in the United States, but do not have a pending application for an immigrant visa abroad or an application to adjust status.
(i) For an otherwise eligible alien who applies for admission to the United States in a V nonimmigrant category at a designated Port-of-Entry and has a current priority date but does not have a pending immigrant visa abroad or application for adjustment of status in the United States, the Service will admit the alien for a 6-month period (or to the date of the day before the alien's 21st birthday, as appropriate).
(ii) For such an alien in the United States who applies for extension of V nonimmigrant status, the Service will grant a one-time extension not to exceed 6 months.
(iii) If the alien has not filed an application, either for adjustment of status or for an immigrant visa within that 6-month period, the alien cannot extend or be admitted or readmitted to V nonimmigrant status. If the alien does file an application, either for adjustment of status or for an immigrant visa within the time allowed, the alien
will continue to be eligible for further extensions of V nonimmigrant status as provided in this section while that application remains pending.
(h)
Employment authorization.
An alien in V nonimmigrant status may apply to the Service for employment authorization pursuant to this section and § 274a.12(a)(15) of this chapter. An alien must file Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization, with the fee required by 8 CFR 103.7. The Service will grant employment authorization to aliens in V nonimmigrant status who remain eligible for V nonimmigrant status valid for a period equal to the alien's authorized admission as a V nonimmigrant.
(i)
Travel abroad; unlawful presence
—(1)
V nonimmigrant status in the United States.
An alien who applies for and obtains V nonimmigrant status in the United States will be issued Form I-797, Notice of Action, indicating the alien's V status in the United States. Form I-797 does not serve as a travel document. If such an alien departs the United States, he or she must obtain a V visa from a consular office abroad in order to be readmitted to the United States as a V nonimmigrant. This visa requirement, however, does not apply if the alien traveled to contiguous territory or adjacent islands, possesses another valid visa, and is eligible for automatic revalidation.
(2)
V nonimmigrants with a pending Form I-485.
An alien in V nonimmigrant status with a pending Form I-485 (Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status) that was properly filed with the Service does not have to obtain advance parole in order to prevent the abandonment of that application when the alien departs the United States.
(3)
Unlawful presence
—(i)
Nonimmigrant admission.
An alien otherwise eligible for admission as a V nonimmigrant is not subject to the ground of inadmissibility under section 212(a)(9)(B) of the Act. This is true even if the alien had accrued more than 180 days of unlawful presence in the United States and is applying for admission as a nonimmigrant after travel abroad.
(ii)
Permanent resident status.
A V nonimmigrant alien is subject to the ground of inadmissibility under section 212(a)(9)(B) of the Act when applying for an immigrant visa or for adjustment of status to that of a lawful permanent resident. Therefore, a departure from the United States at any time after having accrued more than 180 days of unlawful presence will render the alien inadmissible under that section for the purpose of adjustment of status or admission as an immigrant, unless he or she has obtained a waiver under section 212(a)(9)(B)(v) of the Act or falls within one of the exceptions in section 212(a)(9)(B)(iii) of the Act.
(j)
Termination of status
—(1)
General.
The status of an alien admitted to the United States as a V nonimmigrant under section 101(a)(15)(V) of the Act shall be automatically terminated 30 days following the occurrence of any of the following:
(i) The denial, withdrawal, or revocation of the Form I-130, Petition for Immediate Relative, filed on behalf of that alien;
(ii) The denial or withdrawal of the immigrant visa application filed by that alien;
(iii) The denial or withdrawal of the alien's application for adjustment of status to that of lawful permanent residence;
(iv) The V-1 spouse's divorce from the LPR becomes final; or
(v) The marriage of an alien in V-2 or V-3 status.
(2)
Dependents.
When a principal alien's V nonimmigrant status is terminated, the V nonimmigrant status of any alien listed as a V-3 dependent or who is seeking derivative benefits is also terminated.
(3)
Appeals.
If the denial of the immigrant visa petition is appealed, the alien's V nonimmigrant status does not terminate until 30 days after the administrative appeal is dismissed.
(4)
Violations of status.
Nothing in this section precludes the Service from immediately initiating removal proceedings for other violations of an alien's V nonimmigrant status.
(k)
Naturalization of the petitioner.
If the lawful permanent resident who filed the qualifying Form I-130 immigrant visa petition subsequently naturalizes, the V nonimmigrant status of
the spouse and any children will terminate after his or her current period of admission ends. However, in such a case, the alien spouse or child will be considered an immediate relative of a U.S. citizen as defined in section 201(b) of the Act and will immediately be eligible to apply for adjustment of status and related employment authorization. If the V-1 spouse or V-2 child had already filed an application for adjustment of status by the time the LPR naturalized, a new application for adjustment will not be required.
(l)
Aliens in proceedings.
An alien who is already in immigration proceedings and believes that he or she may have become eligible to apply for V nonimmigrant status should request before the immigration judge or the Board, as appropriate, that the proceedings be administratively closed (or before the Board that a previously-filed motion for reopening or reconsideration be indefinitely continued) in order to allow the alien to pursue an application for V nonimmigrant status with the Service. If the alien appears eligible for V nonimmigrant status, the immigration judge or the Board, whichever has jurisdiction, shall administratively close the proceeding or continue the motion indefinitely. In the event that the Service finds an alien eligible for V nonimmigrant status, the Service can adjudicate the change of status under this section. In the event that the Service finds an alien ineligible for V nonimmigrant status, the Service shall recommence proceedings by filing a motion to re-calendar.
[66 FR 46702, Sept. 7, 2001, as amended at 72 FR 19107, Apr. 17, 2007]
Subpart B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Noncitizen Victims of Severe Forms of Trafficking in Persons

# Source:
89 FR 34931, Apr. 30, 2024
§ 214.200
Scope of this subpart.
This subpart governs the submission and adjudication of an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status, including a request by a principal applicant on behalf of an eligible family member for derivative status.
§ 214.201
Definitions.
Where applicable, USCIS will apply the definitions provided in section 103 and 107(e) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act (TVPA), 22 U.S.C. 7102, and 8 U.S.C. 1101, 1182(d), and 1184, with due regard for the definitions and application of these terms in 28 CFR part 1100 and the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 77. As used in this section the term:
Abuse or threatened abuse of the legal process
means the use or threatened use of a law or legal process whether administrative, civil, or criminal, in any manner or for any purpose for which the law was not designed, in order to exert pressure on another person to cause that person to take some action or refrain from taking some action.
Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status
means a request by a principal applicant on behalf of an eligible family member for derivative T-2, T-3, T-4, T-5, or T-6 nonimmigrant status on an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status.
Application for T Nonimmigrant Status
means a request by a principal applicant for T-1 nonimmigrant status on the form designated by USCIS for that purpose.
Child
means a person described in section 101(b)(1) of the Act.
Coercion
means threats of serious harm to or physical restraint against any person; any scheme, plan, or pattern intended to cause a person to believe that failure to perform an act would result in serious harm to or physical restraint against any person; or the abuse or threatened abuse of the legal process.
Commercial sex act
means any sex act on account of which anything of value is given to or received by any person.
Debt bondage
means the status or condition of a debtor arising from a pledge by the debtor of their personal services or those of a person under their control as a security for debt, if the value of those services as reasonably assessed is not applied toward the liquidation of the debt or the length and nature of those services are not respectively limited and defined.
Derivative T nonimmigrant
means an eligible family member who has been granted T-2, T-3, T-4, T-5, or T-6 derivative status. A family member outside of the United States is not a derivative T nonimmigrant until they are issued a T-2, T-3, T-4, T-5, or T-6 visa by the Department of State and they are admitted to the United States in derivative T nonimmigrant status.
Eligible family member
means:
(1) A family member eligible for derivative T nonimmigrant status based on their relationship to a principal applicant or T-1 nonimmigrant and, if required, upon a showing of a present danger of retaliation;
(2) In the case of a principal applicant or T-1 nonimmigrant who is 21 years of age or older, the spouse and children of such applicant;
(3) In the case of a principal applicant or T-1 nonimmigrant under 21 years of age, the spouse, children, unmarried siblings under 18 years of age, and parents of such applicant; and
(4) Regardless of the age of a principal applicant or T-1 nonimmigrant, any parent or unmarried sibling under 18 years of age, or adult or minor child of a derivative of such principal applicant or T-1 nonimmigrant where the family member faces a present danger of retaliation as a result of the principal applicant or T-1 nonimmigrant's escape from a severe form of trafficking in persons or cooperation with law enforcement.
Involuntary servitude,
for the purposes of this part:
(1) Means a condition of servitude induced by means of any scheme, plan, or pattern intended to cause a person to believe that, if the person did not enter into or continue in such condition, that person or another person would suffer serious harm or physical restraint; or a condition of servitude induced by the abuse or threatened abuse of legal process; and
(2) Includes a condition of servitude in which the victim is forced to work for the trafficker by the use or threat of physical restraint or physical injury, or by the use or threat of coercion through the law or the legal process. This definition encompasses those cases in which the trafficker holds the victim in servitude by placing the victim in fear of such physical restraint or injury or legal coercion.
Law Enforcement Agency (LEA)
means a Federal, State, Tribal, or local law enforcement agency, prosecutor, judge, labor agency, children's protective services agency, adult protective services agency, or other authority that has the responsibility and authority for the detection, investigation, and/or prosecution of severe forms of trafficking in persons under any administrative, civil, criminal, or Tribal laws. Federal LEAs include but are not limited to the following: Department of Justice (including U.S. Attorneys' Offices, Civil Rights Division, Criminal Division, U.S. Marshals Service, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)); U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP); Department of State (including Diplomatic Security Service); Department of Labor (DOL); Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC); National Labor Relations Board (NLRB); Offices of Inspectors General (OIG); Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) Police, and Offices for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties.
Law Enforcement Agency (LEA) declaration
means an official LEA declaration submitted on the Declaration for Trafficking Victim.
Law enforcement involvement,
for purposes of establishing physical presence, means law enforcement action beyond receiving the applicant's reporting and may include the LEA interviewing the applicant or otherwise becoming involved in detecting, investigating, or prosecuting the acts of trafficking.
Peonage
means a status or condition of involuntary servitude based upon real or alleged indebtedness.
Principal applicant
means a noncitizen who has filed an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status.
Request for assistance
means a request made by an LEA to a victim to assist in the detection, investigation, or prosecution of the acts of trafficking in persons or the investigation of a crime where acts of trafficking are at least one central reason for the commission of that crime. The reasonableness of the request is assessed using the factors delineated at § 214.208(c).
Serious harm
means any harm, whether physical or nonphysical, including psychological, financial, or reputational harm, that is sufficiently serious, under all the surrounding circumstances, to compel a reasonable person of the same background and in the same circumstances to perform or to continue performing labor or services in order to avoid incurring that harm.
Severe form of trafficking in persons
means sex trafficking in which a commercial sex act is induced by force, fraud, or coercion, or in which the person induced to perform such act is under the age of 18 years; or the recruitment, harboring, transportation, provision, or obtaining of a person for labor or services through the use of force, fraud, or coercion for the purpose of subjection to involuntary servitude, peonage, debt bondage, or slavery.
Sex trafficking
means the recruitment, harboring, transportation, provision, obtaining, patronizing, or soliciting of a person for the purpose of a commercial sex act.
T-1 nonimmigrant
means the victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons who has been granted T-1 nonimmigrant status.
United States
means the fifty States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
Victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons (victim)
means a noncitizen who is or has been subjected to a severe form of trafficking in persons.
§ 214.202
Eligibility for T-1 nonimmigrant status.
An applicant is eligible for T-1 nonimmigrant status under section 101(a)(15)(T)(i) of the Act if they demonstrate all of the following, subject to section 214(o) of the Act:
(a)
Victim.
The applicant is or has been a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons, according to § 214.206.
(b)
Physical presence.
The applicant is physically present in the United States, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or at a port-of-entry thereto, according to § 214.207.
(c)
Compliance with any reasonable request for assistance.
The applicant has complied with any reasonable request for assistance from law enforcement or meets one of the conditions described below. The reasonableness of the request is assessed using the factors delineated at § 214.208(c).
(1)
Exemption for minor victims.
An applicant who was under 18 years of age at the time at least one act of trafficking occurred is not required to comply with any reasonable request for assistance.
(2)
Exception for trauma.
An applicant who, due to physical or psychological trauma, is unable to cooperate with a reasonable request for assistance from law enforcement is not required to comply with such reasonable request.
(d)
Hardship.
The applicant would suffer extreme hardship involving unusual and severe harm upon removal, according to § 214.209.
(e)
Prohibition against traffickers in persons.
No applicant will be eligible to receive T nonimmigrant status if there is substantial reason to believe that the applicant has committed an act of a severe form of trafficking in persons.
§ 214.203
Period of admission.
(a)
T-1 Principal.
T-1 nonimmigrant status may be approved for a period not to exceed 4 years, except as provided in section 214(o)(7) of the Act.
(b)
Derivative family members.
A derivative family member who is otherwise eligible for admission may be granted T-2, T-3, T-4, T-5, or T-6 nonimmigrant status for an initial period that does not exceed the expiration date of the initial period approved for the T-1 principal applicant, except as provided in section 214(o)(7) of the Act.
(c)
Notice.
At the time an applicant is approved for T nonimmigrant status or receives an extension of T nonimmigrant status, USCIS will notify the applicant when their T nonimmigrant status will expire. USCIS also will notify the applicant that the failure to apply for adjustment of status to lawful permanent resident during the period of T nonimmigrant status, as set forth in 8 CFR 245.23, will result in termination of the applicant's T
nonimmigrant status in the United States at the end of the 4-year period or any extension.
§ 214.204
Application.
(a)
Jurisdiction.
USCIS has sole jurisdiction over all applications for T nonimmigrant status.
(b)
Filing an application.
An applicant seeking T-1 nonimmigrant status must submit an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status on the form designated by USCIS in accordance with 8 CFR 103.2 and with the evidence described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(1)
Applicants in pending immigration proceedings.
(i) An applicant in removal proceedings under section 240 of the Act, or in exclusion or deportation proceedings under former sections 236 or 242 of the Act (as in effect prior to April 1, 1997), and who wishes to apply for T-1 nonimmigrant status must file an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status directly with USCIS.
(ii) In its discretion, ICE may exercise prosecutorial discretion, as appropriate, while USCIS adjudicates the Application for T Nonimmigrant Status, including applications for derivatives.
(2)
Applicants with final orders of removal, deportation, or exclusion.
An applicant subject to a final order of removal, deportation, or exclusion may file an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status directly with USCIS.
(i) The filing of an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status has no effect on DHS authority or discretion to execute a final order of removal, although the applicant may request an administrative stay of removal pursuant to 8 CFR 241.6(a).
(ii) If the applicant is in detention pending execution of the final order, the period of detention (under the standards of 8 CFR 241.4) reasonably necessary to bring about the applicant's removal will be extended during the period the stay is in effect.
(iii) If USCIS subsequently determines under the procedures in § 214.205 that the application is bona fide, the final order of removal, deportation, or exclusion will be automatically stayed, and the stay will remain in effect until a final decision is made on the Application for T Nonimmigrant Status.
(3)
Referral of applicants for removal proceedings.
USCIS generally will not refer an applicant for T nonimmigrant status for removal proceedings while the application is pending or following denial of the application, absent serious aggravating circumstances, such as the existence of an egregious criminal history, a threat to national security, or where the applicant is complicit in committing an act of trafficking.
(4)
Minor applicants.
When USCIS receives an application from a principal applicant under the age of 18, USCIS will notify the Department of Health and Human Services to facilitate the provision of interim assistance.
(c)
Initial evidence.
An Application for T Nonimmigrant Status must include:
(1) A detailed, signed personal statement from the applicant, in their own words, addressing:
(i) The circumstances surrounding the applicant's victimization, including:
(A) The nature of the victimization; and
(B) To the extent possible, the following:
(
1
) When the victimization occurred;
(
2
) How long the trafficking lasted;
(
3
) How and when they escaped, were rescued, or otherwise became separated from the traffickers;
(
4
) The events surrounding the trafficking;
(
5
) Who was responsible for the trafficking; and
(
6
) The circumstances surrounding their entry into the United States, if related to the trafficking;
(ii) How the applicant's physical presence in the United States relates to the trafficking;
(iii) The hardship, including harm or mistreatment the applicant fears if they are removed from the United States; and
(iv) Whether they have complied with any reasonable law enforcement request for assistance and whether any criminal, civil or administrative records relating to the acts of trafficking exist, if known, (or if applicable, why the age exemption or trauma exception applies); and
(2) Any credible evidence that supports any of the eligibility requirements set out in §§ 214.206 through 214.209.
(d)
Inadmissible applicants.
If an applicant is inadmissible to the United States, they must submit a request for a waiver of inadmissibility on the Application for Advance Permission to Enter as a Nonimmigrant, or successor form as designated by USCIS accordance with 8 CFR 103.2, in accordance with form instructions and 8 CFR 212.16, and accompanied by supporting evidence.
(e)
Evidence from law enforcement.
An applicant may wish to submit evidence from an LEA to help establish eligibility, including victimization and the compliance with reasonable requests for assistance. An LEA declaration:
(1) Is optional evidence;
(2) Is not given any special evidentiary weight;
(3) Does not grant an immigration benefit and does not lead to automatic approval of the Application for T Nonimmigrant Status;
(4) Must be submitted on the “Declaration for Trafficking Victim,” and must be signed by a supervising official responsible for the detection, investigation, or prosecution of severe forms of trafficking in persons;
(5) Is completed at the discretion of the certifying official; and
(6) Does not require that a formal investigation or prosecution be initiated.
(f)
Any credible evidence.
All evidence demonstrating cooperation with law enforcement will be considered under the any credible evidence standard.
(g)
USCIS determination.
USCIS, not the LEA, will determine if the applicant was or is a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons, and otherwise meets the eligibility requirements for T nonimmigrant status.
(h)
Disavowed or withdrawn LEA declaration.
An LEA may disavow or withdraw the contents of a previously submitted declaration and should provide a detailed explanation of its reasoning in writing. After disavowal or withdrawal, the LEA declaration generally will no longer be considered as evidence of the applicant's compliance with requests for assistance in the LEA's detection, investigation, or prosecution, but may be considered for other purposes.
(i)
Continued Presence.
An applicant granted Continued Presence under 28 CFR 1100.35 should submit documentation of the grant of Continued Presence. If revoked, the grant of Continued Presence will generally no longer be considered as evidence of the applicant's compliance with requests for assistance in the LEA's investigation or prosecution but may be considered for other purposes.
(j)
Other evidence.
An applicant may also submit any evidence regarding entry or admission into the United States or permission to remain in the United States. An applicant may also note that such evidence is contained in their immigration file.
(k)
Biometric services.
All applicants for T-1 nonimmigrant status must submit biometrics in accordance with 8 CFR 103.16.
(l)
Evidentiary standards, standard of proof, and burden of proof.
(1) The burden is on the applicant to demonstrate eligibility for T-1 nonimmigrant status by a preponderance of the evidence. The applicant may submit any credible evidence relating to a T nonimmigrant application for consideration by USCIS.
(2) USCIS will conduct a review of all evidence and may investigate any aspect of the application.
(3) Evidence previously submitted by the applicant for any immigration benefit request or relief may be used by USCIS in evaluating the eligibility of an applicant for T-1 nonimmigrant status. USCIS will not be bound by previous factual determinations made in connection with a prior application or petition for any immigration benefit or relief. USCIS will determine, in its sole discretion, the evidentiary value of previously or concurrently submitted evidence.
(4) USCIS will consider the totality of the evidence the applicant submitted and other evidence available to USCIS in evaluating an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status.
(m)
Bona fide determination.
Once an applicant submits an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status or Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status, USCIS will conduct an initial review to
determine if the application is bona fide under the provisions of § 214.205. USCIS will conduct an initial review of an eligible family member's Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status to determine if the application is bona fide if the principal's Application for T Nonimmigrant Status has been deemed bona fide.
(n)
Decision.
After completing its review of the application and evidence, USCIS will issue a decision approving or denying the application in accordance with 8 CFR 103.3.
(o)
Approval.
If USCIS determines that the applicant is eligible for T-1 nonimmigrant status, USCIS will approve the application and grant T-1 nonimmigrant status, subject to the annual limitation as provided in § 214.210. USCIS will provide the applicant with evidence of T-1 nonimmigrant status. USCIS may also notify other parties and entities of the approval as it determines appropriate, including any LEA providing an LEA declaration and the Department of Health and Human Service's Office of Refugee Resettlement, consistent with 8 U.S.C. 1367.
(1)
Applicants with an outstanding order of removal, deportation, or exclusion issued by DHS.
For an applicant who is the subject of an order of removal, deportation, or exclusion issued by DHS, the order will be deemed cancelled by operation of law as of the date of the USCIS approval of the application.
(2)
Applicants with an outstanding order of removal, deportation, or exclusion issued by the Department of Justice.
An applicant who is the subject of an order of removal, deportation or exclusion issued by an immigration judge or the Board of Immigration Appeals (Board) may seek rescission of such order by filing a motion to reopen and terminate removal proceedings with the immigration judge or the Board. ICE may agree, as a matter of discretion, to join such motion to overcome any applicable time and numerical limitations of 8 CFR 1003.2 and 1003.23.
(3)
Employment authorization.
An individual granted T-1 nonimmigrant status is authorized to work incident to status. An applicant does not need to file a separate Application for Employment Authorization to be granted employment authorization. USCIS will issue an initial Employment Authorization Document (EAD) to such T-1 nonimmigrants for the duration of the T-1 nonimmigrant status. An applicant granted T-1 nonimmigrant status seeking to replace an EAD that was lost, stolen, or destroyed must file an Application for Employment Authorization in accordance with form instructions.
(p)
Travel abroad.
In order to return to the United States after travel abroad and continue to hold T-1 nonimmigrant status, a T-1 nonimmigrant must be granted advance parole pursuant to section 212(d)(5) of the Act prior to departing the United States.
(q)
Denial.
Upon denial of an application, USCIS will notify the applicant in accordance with 8 CFR 103.3. USCIS may also notify any LEA providing an LEA declaration and the Department of Health and Human Service's Office of Refugee Resettlement. If an applicant appeals a denial in accordance with 8 CFR 103.3, the denial will not become final until the administrative appeal is decided.
(1)
Effect on bona fide determination.
Upon denial of an application, any benefits derived from a bona fide determination will automatically be revoked when the denial becomes final.
(2)
Applicants previously in removal proceedings.
In the case of an applicant who was previously in removal proceedings that were terminated on the basis of a pending Application for T Nonimmigrant Status, once a denial becomes final, DHS may file a new Notice to Appear to place the individual in removal proceedings again.
(3)
Applicants subject to an order of removal, deportation, or exclusion.
In the case of an applicant who is subject to an order of removal, deportation, or exclusion that had been stayed due to the pending Application for T Nonimmigrant Status, the stay will be automatically lifted as of the date the denial becomes final.
[89 FR 34931, Apr. 30, 2024; 89 FR 68082, Aug. 23, 2024]
§ 214.205
Bona fide determination.
(a)
Bona fide determinations for principal applicants for T nonimmigrant status.
If an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status is submitted on or
after August 28, 2024, USCIS will conduct an initial review to determine if the application is bona fide.
(b)
Bona fide determinations for eligible family members in the United States.
Once a principal applicant's application has been deemed bona fide, USCIS will conduct an initial review for any eligible family members in the United States who have filed an Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status to determine whether their applications are bona fide.
(1) If an Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status was pending as of August 28, 2024, and additional evidence is required to establish eligibility for derivative T nonimmigrant status, USCIS will issue a request for evidence and conduct a bona fide review based on available evidence.
(2) After initial review, USCIS will determine an Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status is bona fide if:
(i) The eligible family member is in the United States at the time of the bona fide determination;
(ii) The principal applicant or T-1 nonimmigrant has submitted a properly filed and complete Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status;
(iii) The Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status is supported by credible evidence that the derivative applicant qualifies as an eligible family member; and
(iv) Initial background checks are complete, have been reviewed, and do not present national security concerns.
(3) If initial review does not establish an Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status is bona fide, USCIS will conduct a full T nonimmigrant status eligibility review. An Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status that meets all eligibility requirements during this secondary review will be approved, or if the statutory cap has been reached, will receive a bona fide determination.
(c)
Notice of USCIS determination.
If USCIS determines that the Application for T Nonimmigrant Status or Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status is bona fide under this section, USCIS will issue written notice of that determination, and inform the applicant that they may be considered for deferred action and may file an Application for Employment Authorization if they have not already filed one. The notice will also inform the applicant that any final order of removal, deportation, or exclusion is automatically stayed as set forth in paragraph (g) of this section. An application will be treated as a bona fide application as of the date of the notice.
(d)
Not considered bona fide.
If an application is incomplete or presents national security concerns, it will not be considered bona fide. There are no motion or appeal rights for a bona fide determination upon initial review under this section.
(1) For applications found not to be bona fide upon initial review, USCIS will proceed to full T nonimmigrant status eligibility review as described in paragraphs (a)(3) and (b)(3) of this section, generally in order of application receipt date.
(2) If an application is found through this review not to establish eligibility for T nonimmigrant status, the application will be denied in accordance with § 214.204(q).
(e)
Exercise of discretion.
(1) Once USCIS deems an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status or Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status bona fide, USCIS may consider the applicant for deferred action.
(2) If, after review of the available information including background checks, USCIS determines that deferred action is warranted in a particular case as an exercise of enforcement discretion, USCIS will then proceed to adjudication of the Application for Employment Authorization, if one has been filed.
(3) There are no motion or appeal rights for the exercise of enforcement discretion under this section.
(f)
Bona fide determinations for applicants in removal proceedings.
This section applies to applicants whose Applications for T Nonimmigrant Status or Applications for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status have been deemed bona fide and who are in removal proceedings under section 240 of the Act, or in exclusion or deportation proceedings under former sections 236 or 242 of the Act (as in effect prior to April 1, 1997). In such cases, ICE may
exercise prosecutorial discretion, as appropriate, while USCIS adjudicates an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status or an Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status.
(g)
Stay of final order of removal, deportation, or exclusion.
(1) If USCIS determines that an application is bona fide it automatically stays the execution of any final order of removal, deportation, or exclusion.
(2) This administrative stay will remain in effect until any adverse decision becomes final.
(3) Neither an immigration judge nor the Board has jurisdiction to adjudicate an application for a stay of removal, deportation, or exclusion on the basis of the filing of an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status or Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status.
[89 FR 34931, Apr. 30, 2024; 89 FR 68083, Aug. 23, 2024]
§ 214.206
Victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons.
(a)
Evidence.
The applicant must submit evidence that demonstrates:
(1) That they are or have been a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons. Except in instances of sex trafficking involving victims under 18 years of age, severe forms of trafficking in persons must involve both a particular means (force, fraud, or coercion) and a particular end or a particular intended end (sex trafficking, involuntary servitude, peonage, debt bondage, or slavery); or
(2) If an applicant has not performed labor or services, or a commercial sex act, they must establish that they were recruited, transported, harbored, provided, or obtained for the purposes of subjection to sex trafficking, involuntary servitude, peonage, debt bondage, or slavery, or patronized or solicited for the purposes of subjection to sex trafficking.
(3) The applicant may satisfy the requirements under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section by submitting:
(i) The applicant's personal statement, which should describe the circumstances of the victimization suffered. For more information regarding the personal statement, see § 214.204(c).
(ii) Any other credible evidence, including but not limited to:
(A) Trial transcripts;
(B) Court documents;
(C) Police reports or other documentation from an LEA;
(D) News articles;
(E) Copies of reimbursement forms for travel to and from court;
(F) Affidavits from case managers, therapists, medical professionals, witnesses, or other victims in the same trafficking scheme;
(G) Correspondence or other documentation from the trafficker;
(H) Documents used in furtherance of the trafficking scheme such as recruitment materials, advertisements, pay stubs, logbooks, or contracts;
(I) Photographs or images;
(J) An LEA declaration as described in § 214.204(c); or
(K) Documentation of a grant of Continued Presence under 28 CFR 1100.35.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 214.207
Physical presence.
(a)
Requirement.
To be eligible for T-1 nonimmigrant status, an applicant must be physically present in the United States, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or at a port-of-entry thereto on account of such trafficking. USCIS considers the applicant's presence in the United States at the time of application. An applicant must demonstrate that they are physically present under one of the following grounds:
(1) Are currently being subjected to a severe form of trafficking in persons;
(2) Were liberated from a severe form of trafficking in persons by an LEA, at any time prior to filing the Application for T Nonimmigrant Status;
(3) Escaped a severe form of trafficking in persons before an LEA was involved, at any time prior to filing the Application for T Nonimmigrant Status;
(4) Were subject to a severe form of trafficking in persons at some point in the past and their current presence in the United States is directly related to the original trafficking in persons, regardless of the length of time that has passed between the trafficking and filing of the Application for T Nonimmigrant Status; or
(5) Have been allowed entry into the United States for participation in the detection, investigation, prosecution, or judicial processes associated with an act or perpetrator of trafficking.
(i) An applicant will be deemed physically present under this provision regardless of where such trafficking occurred.
(ii) To demonstrate that the applicant's physical presence is for participation in an investigative or judicial process, the applicant must submit documentation to show valid entry into the United States and evidence that this valid entry is for participation in investigative or judicial processes associated with an act or perpetrator of trafficking.
(b)
Departure from the United States.
An applicant who has voluntarily departed from or has been removed from the United States at any time after the act of a severe form of trafficking in persons is deemed not to be present in the United States as a result of such trafficking in persons unless:
(1) The applicant's reentry into the United States was the result of the continued victimization of the applicant;
(2) The applicant is a victim of a new incident of a severe form of trafficking in persons;
(3) The applicant has been allowed reentry into the United States for participation in the detection, investigation, prosecution, or judicial process associated with an act or a perpetrator of trafficking. An applicant will be deemed physically present under this provision regardless of where such trafficking occurred. To demonstrate that the applicant's physical presence is for participation in an investigative or judicial process, the applicant must submit documentation to show valid entry into the United States and evidence that this valid entry is for participation in investigative or judicial processes associated with an act or perpetrator of trafficking;
(4) The applicant's presence in the United States is on account of their past or current participation in investigative or judicial processes associated with an act or perpetrator of trafficking, regardless of where such trafficking occurred. The applicant may satisfy physical presence under this provision regardless of the length of time that has passed between their participation in an investigative or judicial process associated with an act or perpetrator of trafficking and the filing of the Application for T Nonimmigrant Status; or
(5) The applicant returned to the United States and received treatment or services related to their victimization that cannot be provided in their home country or last place of residence outside the United States.
(c)
Evidence.
The applicant must submit evidence that demonstrates that their physical presence in the United States, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or at a port-of-entry thereto, is on account of trafficking in persons. USCIS will consider any credible evidence presented to determine the physical presence requirement, including but not limited to:
(1) A detailed personal statement describing the applicant's current presence in the United States on account of the trafficking, including:
(i) The circumstances describing the victimization, including when the events took place, the length and severity of the trafficking, how and when the applicant escaped, was rescued, or otherwise became separated from the traffickers, when the trafficking ended, and when and how the applicant learned that they were a victim of human trafficking;
(ii) An explanation of any physical health effects or psychological trauma the applicant has suffered as a result of the trafficking and a description of how this trauma impacts the applicant's life at the time of filing;
(iii) The financial impact of the victimization;
(iv) The applicant's ability to access mental health services, social services, and legal services;
(v) Any relevant description of the applicant's cooperation with law enforcement at the time of filing;
(vi) A description of how the victimization relates to the applicant's current presence in the U.S., if relevant.
(2) Affidavits, evaluations, diagnoses, or other records from the applicant's service providers (including therapists,
psychologists, psychiatrists, and social workers) documenting the therapeutic, psychological, or medical services the applicant has sought or is currently accessing as a result of victimization and that describe how the applicant's life is being impacted by the trauma at the time of filing, and describing any mental health conditions resulting from the trafficking;
(3) Documentation of any stabilizing services and benefits, including financial, language, housing, or legal resources, the applicant is accessing or has accessed as a result of being trafficked. For those services and benefits not currently being accessed, the record should demonstrate how those past services and benefits related to trauma the applicant is experiencing at the time of filing;
(4) An LEA declaration as described in § 214.204(c) or other statements from LEAs documenting the cooperation between the applicant and the LEA or law enforcement involvement in liberating the applicant;
(5) Documentation of a grant of Continued Presence under 28 CFR 1100.35;
(6) Any other documentation of entry into the United States or permission to remain in the United States, such as parole under section 212(d)(5) of the Act, or a notation that such evidence is contained in the applicant's immigration file;
(7) Copies of news reports, law enforcement records, or court records; or
(8) Any other credible evidence to establish the applicant's current presence in the United States is on account of the trafficking victimization.
§ 214.208
Compliance with any reasonable request for assistance in the detection, investigation, or prosecution of an act of trafficking.
(a)
Requirement.
To be eligible for T-1 nonimmigrant status, an applicant must have complied with any reasonable request for assistance from an LEA in the detection, investigation, or prosecution of acts of trafficking or the investigation of a crime where acts of trafficking are at least one central reason for the commission of that crime, unless the applicant meets an exception or exemption described in paragraph (e) of this section.
(b)
Applicability.
An applicant must, at a minimum, contact an LEA with proper jurisdiction to report the acts of a severe form of trafficking in persons. Credible evidence documenting a single contact with an LEA may suffice. Reporting may be telephonic, electronic, or through other means. An applicant who has never had contact with an LEA regarding the acts of a severe form of trafficking in persons will not be eligible for T-1 nonimmigrant status, unless they meet an exemption or exception as described in paragraph (e) of this section.
(c)
Reasonable requests.
An applicant need only show compliance with reasonable requests made by an LEA for assistance in the investigation or prosecution of the acts of trafficking in persons. The reasonableness of the request depends on the totality of the circumstances. Factors to consider include, but are not limited to:
(1) General law enforcement and prosecutorial practices;
(2) The nature of the victimization;
(3) The specific circumstances of the victim;
(4) The victim's capacity, competency, or lack thereof;
(5) Trauma suffered (both mental and physical) or whether the request would cause further trauma;
(6) Access to support services;
(7) The safety of the victim or the victim's family;
(8) Compliance with previous requests and the extent of such compliance;
(9) Whether the request would yield essential information;
(10) Whether the information could be obtained without the victim's compliance;
(11) Whether a qualified interpreter or attorney was present to ensure the victim understood the request;
(12) Cultural, religious, or moral objections to the request;
(13) The time the victim had to comply with the request;
(14) The age, health, and maturity of the victim; and
(15) Any other relevant circumstances surrounding the request.
(d)
Evidence.
An applicant must submit evidence that demonstrates that
they have complied with any reasonable request for assistance in a Federal, State, Tribal, or local detection, investigation, or prosecution of trafficking in persons, or a crime where trafficking in persons is at least one central reason for the commission of that crime. In the alternative, an applicant can submit evidence to demonstrate that they should be exempt under paragraph (e) of this section. If USCIS has any question about whether the applicant has complied with a reasonable request for assistance, USCIS may contact the LEA. The applicant may satisfy this requirement by submitting any of the following:
(1) An LEA declaration as described in § 214.204(c);
(2) Documentation of a grant of Continued Presence under 28 CFR 1100.35; or
(3) Any other evidence, including affidavits of witnesses. In the victim's statement prescribed by § 214.204(c), the applicant should show that an LEA that has responsibility and authority for the detection, investigation, or prosecution of severe forms of trafficking in persons has information about such trafficking in persons, that the victim has complied with any reasonable request for assistance in the investigation or prosecution of such acts of trafficking, and, if the victim did not report the crime, why the crime was not previously reported.
(e)
Exception or exemption.
An applicant who has not had contact with an LEA or who has not complied with any reasonable request may be excepted or exempt from the requirement to comply with any reasonable request for assistance in an investigation or prosecution if either of the following circumstances apply:
(1)
Trauma.
The applicant is unable to cooperate with a reasonable request for assistance from an LEA in the detection, investigation, or prosecution of acts of trafficking in persons due to physical or psychological trauma. An applicant must submit credible evidence of the trauma experienced. The applicant may satisfy this exception by submitting:
(i) A personal statement describing the trauma and explaining the circumstances surrounding the trauma the applicant experienced, including their age, background, maturity, health, disability, and any history of abuse or exploitation;
(ii) A signed statement from a qualified professional, such as a medical professional, mental health professional, social worker, or victim advocate, who attests to the victim's mental state or medical condition;
(iii) Medical or psychological records documenting the trauma or its impact;
(iv) Witness statements;
(v) Photographs;
(vi) Police reports;
(vii) Court records and court orders;
(viii) Disability determinations;
(ix) Government agency findings; or
(x) Any other credible evidence.
(2)
Age.
The applicant was under 18 years of age at the time of victimization. An applicant who was under 18 years of age at the time at least one of the acts of trafficking occurred is exempt from the requirement to comply with any reasonable request for assistance in the detection, investigation, or prosecution, but they must submit evidence of their age at the time of the victimization. Where available, an applicant should include an official copy of their birth certificate, a passport, or a certified medical opinion. USCIS will also consider any other credible evidence submitted regarding the age of the applicant.
(f)
Exception or exemption established.
When an applicant has established that the exception or exemption applies, they are not required to have had any contact with law enforcement or comply with future requests for assistance, including reporting the trafficking. USCIS reserves the authority and discretion to contact the LEA involved in the case, if appropriate.
§ 214.209
Extreme hardship involving unusual and severe harm.
To be eligible for T-1 nonimmigrant status, an applicant must demonstrate that removal from the United States would subject the applicant to extreme hardship involving unusual and severe harm.
(a)
Standard.
A finding of extreme hardship involving unusual and severe harm may be based on the following factors.
(b)
Factors.
Factors that may be considered in evaluating whether removal would result in extreme hardship involving unusual and severe harm should include both traditional extreme hardship factors and factors associated with having been a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons. These factors include, but are not limited to:
(1) The age, maturity, and personal circumstances of the applicant;
(2) Any physical or psychological issues the applicant has that necessitate medical or psychological care not reasonably available in the foreign country to which the applicant would be returned;
(3) The nature and extent of the physical and psychological consequences of having been a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons;
(4) The impact of the loss of access to the United States courts and the criminal justice system for purposes relating to the incident of a severe form of trafficking in persons or other crimes perpetrated against the applicant, including criminal and civil redress for acts of trafficking in persons, criminal prosecution, restitution, and protection;
(5) The reasonable expectation that the existence of laws, social practices, or customs in the foreign country to which the applicant would be returned would penalize the applicant severely for having been the victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons;
(6) The likelihood of re-victimization and the need, ability, and willingness of foreign authorities to protect the applicant;
(7) The likelihood that the trafficker or others acting on behalf of the trafficker in the foreign country would cause the applicant harm;
(8) The likelihood that the applicant's individual safety would be threatened by the existence of civil unrest or armed conflict; or
(9) Current or likelihood of future economic harm.
(c)
Evidence.
(1) An applicant is encouraged to describe and document all factors that may be relevant to the case, as there is no guarantee that a particular reason(s) will satisfy the requirement.
(2) Hardship to persons other than the applicant may be considered in determining whether an applicant will suffer the requisite hardship only if the related evidence demonstrates specifically that the applicant will suffer extreme hardship upon removal as a result of hardship to persons other than the applicant.
(3) The applicant may satisfy this requirement by submitting any credible evidence regarding the nature and scope of the hardship if the applicant was removed from the United States, including evidence of hardship arising from circumstances surrounding the victimization and any other circumstances.
(4) An applicant may submit a personal statement or other evidence, including evidence from relevant country condition reports and any other public or private sources of information.
§ 214.210
Annual numerical limit.
(a)
5,000 per fiscal year.
DHS may not grant T-1 nonimmigrant status to more than 5,000 principal applicants in any fiscal year.
(b)
Waiting list.
If the numerical limit prevents further grants of T-1 nonimmigrant status, USCIS will place applicants who receive a bona fide determination pursuant to § 214.205 on a waiting list. USCIS:
(1) Will assign priority on the waiting list based on the date the application was properly filed, with the oldest applications receiving the highest priority for processing;
(2) Will in the next fiscal year, issue a number to each application on the waiting list, in the order of the highest priority; and
(3) After T-1 nonimmigrant status has been issued to eligible applicants on the waiting list, USCIS will issue any remaining T-1 nonimmigrant numbers for that fiscal year to new eligible applicants in the order the applications were filed.
(c)
Unlawful presence.
While an applicant for T nonimmigrant status in the United States is on the waiting list, the applicant will not accrue unlawful presence under section 212(a)(9)(B) of the Act.
(d)
Removal from the waiting list.
An applicant may be removed from the
waiting list consistent with law and policy. Applicants on the waiting list must remain admissible to the United States and otherwise eligible for T nonimmigrant status. If at any time prior to final adjudication USCIS receives information that an applicant is no longer eligible for T nonimmigrant status, the applicant may be removed from the waiting list. USCIS will provide notice to the applicant of that decision.
§ 214.211
Application for eligible family members.
(a)
Eligibility.
Subject to section 214(o) of the Act, an applicant who has applied for or has been granted T-1 nonimmigrant status (principal applicant) may apply for the admission of an eligible family member, who is otherwise admissible to the United States, in derivative T nonimmigrant status if accompanying or following to join the principal applicant.
(1)
Principal applicant 21 years of age or older.
For a principal applicant who is 21 years of age or over, eligible family member means a T-2 (spouse) or T-3 (child).
(2)
Principal applicant under 21 years of age.
For a principal applicant who is under 21 years of age, eligible family member means a T-2 (spouse), T-3 (child), T-4 (parent), or T-5 (unmarried sibling under the age of 18).
(3)
Family member facing danger of retaliation.
Regardless of the age of the principal applicant, if the eligible family member faces a present danger of retaliation as a result of the principal applicant's escape from the severe form of trafficking or cooperation with law enforcement, in consultation with the law enforcement agency investigating a severe form of trafficking, eligible family member means a T-4 (parent), T-5 (unmarried sibling under the age of 18), or T-6 (adult or minor child of a derivative of the principal applicant). In cases where the LEA has not investigated the acts of trafficking after the applicant has reported the crime, USCIS will evaluate any credible evidence demonstrating derivatives' present danger of retaliation.
(4)
Admission requirements.
The principal applicant must demonstrate that the applicant for whom derivative T nonimmigrant status is being sought is an eligible family member of the T-1 principal applicant, as defined in § 214.201, and is otherwise eligible for that status.
(b)
Application.
(1)
Application submission.
A T-1 principal applicant may submit an Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status in accordance with the form instructions.
(i) The Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status for an eligible family member may be filed with the T-1 application, or separately.
(ii) T nonimmigrant status for eligible family members is dependent on the principal applicant having been granted T-1 nonimmigrant status and the principal applicant maintaining T-1 nonimmigrant status.
(iii) If a T-1 nonimmigrant cannot maintain status due to their death, the provisions of section 204(l) of the Act may apply.
(2)
Eligible family members in pending immigration proceedings.
(i) If an eligible family member is in removal proceedings under section 240 of the Act, or in exclusion or deportation proceedings under former sections 236 or 242 of the Act (as in effect prior to April 1, 1997), the principal applicant or T-1 nonimmigrant must file an Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status directly with USCIS.
(ii) At the request of the eligible family member, ICE may exercise prosecutorial discretion, as appropriate, while USCIS adjudicates an Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status.
(3)
Eligible family members with final orders of removal, deportation, or exclusion.
(i) If an eligible family member is the subject of a final order of removal, deportation, or exclusion, the principal applicant must file an Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status directly with USCIS.
(ii) The filing of an Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status has no effect on ICE's authority or discretion to execute a final order, although the applicant may file a request for an administrative stay of removal pursuant to 8 CFR 241.6(a).
(iii) If the eligible family member is in detention pending execution of the final order, the period of detention (under the standards of 8 CFR 241.4)
will be extended while a stay is in effect for the period reasonably necessary to bring about the applicant's removal.
(c)
Required supporting evidence.
In addition to the form, an Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status must include the following:
(1) Biometrics.
(2) Evidence demonstrating the relationship of an eligible family member, as provided in § 214.211(d).
(3) In the case of an applicant seeking derivative T nonimmigrant status based on danger of retaliation, evidence demonstrating this danger as provided in § 214.211.
(4) If an eligible family member is inadmissible based on a ground that may be waived, a request for a waiver of inadmissibility under section 212(d)(13) or section 212(d)(3) of the Act must be filed in accordance with § 212.16 of this subchapter and submitted with the completed application package.
(d)
Relationship.
Except as described in paragraph (e) of this section, the family relationship must exist at the time:
(1) The Application for T Nonimmigrant Status is filed;
(2) The Application for T Nonimmigrant Status is adjudicated;
(3) The Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status is filed;
(4) The Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status is adjudicated; and
(5) The eligible family member is admitted to the United States if residing abroad.
(e)
Relationship and age-out protections
—(1)
Protection for new child of a principal applicant.
If the T-1 principal applicant establishes that they have become a parent of a child after filing the application for T-1 nonimmigrant status, the child will be deemed to be an eligible family member eligible to accompany or follow to join the T-1 principal applicant.
(2)
Age-out protection for eligible family members of a principal applicant under 21 years of age.
(i) If the T-1 principal applicant was under 21 years of age when they applied for T-1 nonimmigrant status but reached 21 years of age while the principal application was still pending, USCIS will continue to consider a parent or unmarried sibling as an eligible family member.
(ii) A parent or unmarried sibling will remain eligible even if the principal applicant turns 21 years of age before adjudication of the application for T-1 nonimmigrant status.
(iii) An unmarried sibling will remain eligible even if the unmarried sibling is over 18 years of age at the time of adjudication of the T-1 application, so long as the unmarried sibling was under 18 years of age at the time the T-1 application was filed.
(iv) The age of an unmarried sibling when USCIS adjudicates the T-1 application, when the principal applicant or T-1 nonimmigrant files the Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status, when USCIS adjudicates the derivative application, or when the unmarried sibling is admitted to the United States does not affect eligibility.
(3)
Age-out protection for child of a principal applicant.
(i) USCIS will continue to consider a child as an eligible family member if the child was under 21 years of age at the time the principal filed the Application for T Nonimmigrant Status, but reached 21 years of age while the principal's application was still pending.
(ii) The child will remain eligible even if the child is over 21 years of age at the time of adjudication of the T-1 application.
(iii) As long as the child is under age 21 when the Application for T Nonimmigrant Status is filed and reaches age 21 while such application is pending, the age of the child when the principal applicant or T-1 nonimmigrant files the Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status, when USCIS adjudicates the Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status, or when the child is admitted to the United States does not affect eligibility.
(4)
Marriage of an eligible family member.
(i) An eligible family member seeking T-3 or T-5 status must be unmarried when the principal applicant files an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status, when USCIS adjudicates the Application for T Nonimmigrant Status, when the principal applicant or T-1 nonimmigrant files the Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status, when USCIS adjudicates the Derivative
T Nonimmigrant Status, and if relevant, when the family member is admitted to the United States.
(ii) Principal applicants who marry while their Application for T Nonimmigrant Status is pending may file an Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status on behalf of their spouse, even if the relationship did not exist at the time they filed their Application for T Nonimmigrant Status.
(iii) Similarly, the principal applicant may apply for a stepparent or stepchild if the qualifying relationship was created after they filed their Application for T Nonimmigrant Status but before it was approved.
(iv) USCIS evaluates whether the marriage creating the qualifying spousal relationship or stepchild and stepparent relationship exists at the time of adjudication of the principal's application and through completion of the adjudication of the derivative's application.
(f)
Evidence demonstrating a present danger of retaliation.
A principal applicant or T-1 nonimmigrant seeking derivative T nonimmigrant status for an eligible family member on the basis of facing a present danger of retaliation as a result of the principal applicant's or T-1 nonimmigrant's escape from a severe form of trafficking or cooperation with law enforcement, must demonstrate the basis of this danger. USCIS may contact the LEA involved, if appropriate. An applicant may satisfy this requirement by submitting:
(1) Documentation of a previous grant of advance parole to an eligible family member;
(2) A signed statement from a law enforcement agency describing the danger of retaliation;
(3) A personal statement from the principal applicant or derivative applicant describing the danger the family member faces and how the danger is linked to the victim's escape or cooperation with law enforcement; and/or
(4) Any other credible evidence, including trial transcripts, court documents, police reports, news articles, copies of reimbursement forms for travel to and from court, and affidavits from other witnesses. This evidence may be from the United States or any country in which the eligible family member is facing danger of retaliation.
(g)
Biometric submission; evidentiary standards.
The provisions for biometric submission and evidentiary standards described in § 214.204(b) and (d) apply to an eligible family member's Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status.
(h)
Review and decision.
USCIS will review the application and issue a decision in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(i)
Derivative approvals.
A noncitizen whose Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status is approved is not subject to the annual limit described in § 214.210. USCIS will not approve an Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status unless and until it has approved T-1 nonimmigrant status for the principal applicant.
(1)
Approvals for eligible family members in the United States.
When USCIS approves an Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status for an eligible family member in the United States, USCIS will concurrently approve T nonimmigrant status for the eligible family member. USCIS will notify the T-1 nonimmigrant of such approval and provide evidence of T nonimmigrant status to the derivative.
(2)
Approvals for eligible family members outside the United States.
When USCIS approves an application for an eligible family member outside the United States, USCIS will notify the T-1 nonimmigrant of such approval and provide the necessary documentation to the Department of State for consideration of visa issuance.
(3)
Employment authorization.
(i) A noncitizen granted derivative T nonimmigrant status may apply for employment authorization by filing an Application for Employment Authorization in accordance with form instructions.
(ii) For derivatives in the United States, the Application for Employment Authorization may be filed concurrently with the Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status or at any later time.
(iii) For derivatives outside the United States, an Application for Employment Authorization based on their T nonimmigrant status may only be
filed after admission to the United States in T nonimmigrant status.
(iv) If the Application for Employment Authorization is approved, the derivative T nonimmigrant will be granted employment authorization pursuant to 8 CFR 274a.12(c)(25) for the period remaining in derivative T nonimmigrant status.
(4)
Travel abroad.
In order to return to the United States after travel abroad and continue to hold derivative T nonimmigrant status, a noncitizen granted derivative T nonimmigrant status must either be granted advance parole pursuant to section 212(d)(5) of the Act and 8 CFR 223 or obtain a T nonimmigrant visa (unless visa exempt under 8 CFR 212.1) and be admitted as a T nonimmigrant at a designated port of entry.
[89 FR 34931, Apr. 30, 2024; 89 FR 68083, Aug. 23, 2024]
§ 214.212
Extension of T nonimmigrant status.
(a)
Eligibility.
USCIS may grant extensions of T-1 nonimmigrant status beyond 4 years from the date of approval in 1-year periods from the date the T-1 nonimmigrant status ends if:
(1) An LEA detecting, investigating, or prosecuting activity related to acts of trafficking certifies that the presence of the applicant in the United States is necessary to assist in the detection, investigation, or prosecution of such activity; or
(2) USCIS determines that an extension is warranted due to exceptional circumstances.
(b)
Application for a discretionary extension of status.
Upon application, USCIS may extend T-1 nonimmigrant status based on law enforcement need or exceptional circumstances. A T-1 nonimmigrant may apply for an extension by submitting the form designated by USCIS in accordance with form instructions. A derivative T nonimmigrant may file for an extension of status independently if the T-1 nonimmigrant remains in valid T nonimmigrant status, or the T-1 nonimmigrant may file for an extension of T-1 status and request that this extension be applied to the derivative family members in accordance with the form instructions.
(c)
Timely filing.
An applicant should file the application to extend nonimmigrant status before the expiration of T nonimmigrant status. If T nonimmigrant status has expired, the applicant must explain in writing the reason for the untimely filing. USCIS may exercise its discretion to approve an untimely filed application for extension of T nonimmigrant status.
(d)
Evidence.
In addition to the application, a T nonimmigrant must include evidence to support why USCIS should grant an extension of T nonimmigrant status. The nonimmigrant bears the burden of establishing eligibility for an extension of status and that a favorable exercise of discretion is warranted.
(e)
Evidence of law enforcement need.
An applicant may demonstrate law enforcement need by submitting evidence that comes directly from an LEA, including:
(1) A new LEA declaration;
(2) Evidence from a law enforcement official, prosecutor, judge, or other authority who can detect, investigate, or prosecute acts of trafficking, such as a letter on the agency's letterhead, email, or fax; or
(3) Any other credible evidence.
(f)
Exceptional circumstances.
(1) USCIS may, in its discretion, extend status beyond the 4-year period if it determines the extension of the period of such nonimmigrant status is warranted due to exceptional circumstances as described in section 214(o)(7)(iii) of the Act. (2) USCIS may approve an extension of status for a principal applicant, based on exceptional circumstances, when an approved eligible family member is awaiting initial issuance of a T visa by an embassy or consulate and the principal applicant's T-1 nonimmigrant status is soon to expire.
(g)
Evidence of exceptional circumstances.
An applicant may demonstrate exceptional circumstances by submitting:
(1) The applicant's affirmative statement; or
(2) Any other credible evidence, including but not limited to:
(i) Medical records;
(ii) Police or court records;
(iii) News articles;
(iv) Correspondence with an embassy or consulate; and
(v) Affidavits from individuals with direct knowledge of or familiarity with the applicant's circumstances.
(h)
Mandatory extensions of status for adjustment of status applicants.
USCIS will automatically extend T nonimmigrant status when a T nonimmigrant properly files an application for adjustment of status during the period of T nonimmigrant status, in accordance with 8 CFR 245.23. No separate application for extension of T nonimmigrant status, or supporting evidence, is required.
§ 214.213
Revocation of approved T nonimmigrant status.
(a)
Automatic revocation of derivative status.
An approved Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status will be revoked automatically if the family member with an approved derivative application notifies USCIS that they will not apply for admission to the United States. An automatic revocation cannot be appealed.
(b)
Revocation on notice/grounds for revocation.
USCIS may revoke an approved Application for T Nonimmigrant Status following issuance of a notice of intent to revoke if:
(1) The approval of the application violated the requirements of section 101(a)(15)(T) of the Act or this subpart or involved error in preparation, procedure, or adjudication that led to the approval;
(2) In the case of a T-2 spouse, the applicant's divorce from the T-1 principal applicant has become final;
(3) In the case of a T-1 principal applicant, an LEA with jurisdiction to detect, investigate, or prosecute the acts of severe forms of trafficking in persons notifies USCIS that the applicant has refused to comply with a reasonable request to assist with the detection, investigation, or prosecution of the trafficking in persons and provides USCIS with a detailed explanation in writing; or
(4) The LEA that signed the LEA declaration withdraws it or disavows its contents and notifies USCIS and provides a detailed explanation of its reasoning in writing.
(c)
Procedures.
(1) USCIS may revoke an approved application for T nonimmigrant status following a notice of intent to revoke.
(i) The notice of intent to revoke must be in writing and contain a statement of the grounds for the revocation and the time period allowed for the T nonimmigrant's rebuttal.
(ii) The T nonimmigrant may submit evidence in rebuttal within 30 days of the notice.
(iii) USCIS will consider all relevant evidence in determining whether to revoke the approved application for T nonimmigrant status.
(2) If USCIS revokes approval of the previously granted T nonimmigrant status application, USCIS:
(i) Will provide written notice to the applicant; and
(ii) May notify the LEA who signed the LEA declaration, any consular officer having jurisdiction over the applicant, or the Office of Refugee Resettlement of the Department of Health and Human Services.
(3) If an applicant appeals the revocation, the decision will not become final until the administrative appeal is decided in accordance with 8 CFR 103.3.
(d)
Effect of revocation.
Revocation of T-1 nonimmigrant status will terminate the principal's status as a T nonimmigrant and result in automatic termination of any derivative T nonimmigrant status. If a derivative application is pending at the time of revocation of T-1 nonimmigrant status, such pending applications will be denied. Revocation of a T-1 nonimmigrant status or derivative T nonimmigrant status also revokes any waiver of inadmissibility granted in conjunction with such application. The revocation of T-1 nonimmigrant status will have no effect on the annual numerical limit described in § 214.210.
§ 214.214
Removal proceedings.
(a) Nothing in this section prohibits DHS from instituting removal proceedings for conduct committed after admission, or for conduct or a condition that was not disclosed prior to the granting of T nonimmigrant status, including misrepresentations of material facts in the Application for T-1 Nonimmigrant Status or in an Application
for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status, or after revocation of T nonimmigrant status.
(b) ICE will maintain a policy regarding the exercise of discretion toward all applicants for T nonimmigrant status and T nonimmigrants. This policy will address, but need not be limited to, ICE's discretionary decision-making in proceedings before the Executive Office for Immigration Review and considerations related to ICE's immigration enforcement actions involving T visa applicants and T nonimmigrants.
§ 214.215
USCIS employee referral.
(a) Any USCIS employee who, while carrying out their official duties, comes into contact with a noncitizen believed to be a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons and is not already working with an LEA may consult, as necessary, with the ICE officials responsible for victim protection, trafficking investigations and prevention, and deterrence.
(b) The ICE office may, in turn, refer the victim to another LEA with responsibility for detecting, investigating, or prosecuting acts of trafficking.
(c) If the noncitizen has a credible claim to victimization, USCIS may advise the individual that they can submit an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status and seek any other benefit or protection for which they may be eligible, provided doing so would not compromise the noncitizen's safety.
§ 214.216
Restrictions on use and disclosure of information relating to applicants for T nonimmigrant classification.
(a) The use or disclosure (other than to a sworn officer or employee of DHS, the Department of Justice, the Department of State, or a bureau or agency of any of those departments, for legitimate department, bureau, or agency purposes) of any information relating to the beneficiary of a pending or approved Application for T Nonimmigrant Status is prohibited unless the disclosure is made in accordance with an exception described in 8 U.S.C. 1367(b).
(b) Information protected under 8 U.S.C. 1367(a)(2) may be disclosed to Federal prosecutors to comply with constitutional obligations to provide statements by witnesses and certain other documents to defendants in pending Federal criminal proceedings.
(c) Agencies receiving information under this section, whether governmental or non-governmental, are bound by the confidentiality provisions and other restrictions set out in 8 U.S.C. 1367.
(d) DHS officials are prohibited from making adverse determinations of admissibility or deportability based on information obtained solely from the trafficker, unless the applicant has been convicted of a crime or crimes listed in section 237(a)(2) of the Act.
Pt. 215

# PART 215—CONTROLS OF ALIENS DEPARTING FROM THE UNITED STATES; ELECTRONIC VISA UPDATE SYSTEM

# Subpart A—Controls of Aliens Departing from the United States
Sec.
215.1
Definitions.
215.2
Authority of departure-control officer to prevent alien's departure from the United States.
215.3
Alien whose departure is deemed prejudicial to the interests of the United States.
215.4
Procedure in case of alien prevented from departing from the United States.
215.5
Hearing procedure before special inquiry officer.
215.6
Departure from the Canal Zone, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, or outlying possessions of the United States.
215.7
Instructions from the Administrator required in certain cases.
215.8
Requirements for biometric identifiers from aliens on departure from the United States.
215.9
Temporary Worker Visa Exit Program.

# Subpart B—Electronic Visa Update System
215.21
Purpose.
215.22
Applicability.
215.23
Definitions.
215.24
Electronic Visa Update System (EVUS) requirements.

# Authority:
6 U.S.C. 202(4), 236; 8 U.S.C. 1101, 1103, 1104, 1184, 1185 (pursuant to Executive Order 13323 (Dec. 30, 2003)), 1365a note, 1379, 1731-32; and 8 CFR part 2.

# Source:
45 FR 65516, Oct. 3, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Controls of Aliens Departing from the United States
§ 215.1
Definitions.
For the purpose of this subpart:
(a) The term
alien
means any person who is not a citizen or national of the United States.
(b) The term
Commissioner
means the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization.
(c) The term
regional commissioner
means an officer of the Immigration and Naturalization Service duly appointed or designated as a regional commissioner, or an officer who has been designated to act as a regional commissioner.
(d) The term
district director
means an officer of the Immigration and Naturalization Service duly appointed or designated as a district director, or an officer who has been designated to act as a district director.
(e) The term
United States
means the several States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, Swains Island, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (beginning November 28, 2009), and all other territory and waters, continental and insular, subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
(f) The term
continental United States
means the District of Columbia and the several States, except Alaska and Hawaii.
(g) The term
geographical part of the United States
means:
(1) The continental United States,
(2) Alaska,
(3) Hawaii,
(4) Puerto Rico,
(5) The Virgin Islands,
(6) Guam,
(7) American Samoa,
(8) Swains Island, or
(9) The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (beginning November 28, 2009).
(h) The term
depart from the United States
means depart by land, water, or air: (1) From the United States for any foreign place, or (2) from one geographical part of the United States for a separate geographical part of the United States:
Provided,
That a trip or journey upon a public ferry, passenger vessel sailing coastwise on a fixed schedule, excursion vessel, or aircraft, having both termini in the continental United States or in any one of the other geographical parts of the United States and not touching any territory or waters under the jurisdiction or control of a foreign power, shall not be deemed a departure from the United States.
(i) The term
departure-control officer
means any immigration officer as defined in the regulations of the Immigration and Naturalization Service who is designated to supervise the departure of aliens, or any officer or employee of the United States designated by the Governor of the Canal Zone, the High Commissioner of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, or the governor of an outlying possession of the United States, to supervise the departure of aliens.
(j) The term
port of departure
means a port in the continental United States, Alaska, Guam, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (beginning November 28, 2009), or the Virgin Islands, designated as a port of entry by the Secretary, or in exceptional circumstances such other place as the departure-control officer may, in his discretion, designate in an individual case, or a port in American Samoa, or Swains Island, designated as a port of entry by the chief executive officer thereof.
(k) The term
special inquiry officer
shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in section 101(b)(4) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.
[45 FR 65516, Oct. 3, 1980, as amended at 74 FR 2836, Jan. 16, 2009; 74 FR 25388, May 28, 2009; 81 FR 72491, Oct. 20, 2016]
§ 215.2
Authority of departure-control officer to prevent alien's departure from the United States.
(a) No alien shall depart, or attempt to depart, from the United States if his departure would be prejudicial to the
interests of the United States under the provisions of § 215.3. Any departure-control officer who knows or has reason to believe that the case of an alien in the United States comes within the provisions of § 215.3 shall temporarily prevent the departure of such alien from the United States and shall serve him with a written temporary order directing him not to depart, or attempt to depart, from the United States until notified of the revocation of the order.
(b) The written order temporarily preventing an alien, other than an enemy alien, from departing from the United States shall become final 15 days after the date of service thereof upon the alien, unless prior thereto the alien requests a hearing as hereinafter provided. At such time as the alien is served with an order temporarily preventing his departure from the United States, he shall be notified in writing concerning the provisions of this paragraph, and shall be advised of his right to request a hearing if entitled thereto under § 215.4. In the case of an enemy alien, the written order preventing departure shall become final on the date of its service upon the alien.
(c) Any alien who seeks to depart from the United States may be required, in the discretion of the departure-control officer, to be examined under oath and to submit for official inspection all documents, articles, and other property in his possession which are being removed from the United States upon, or in connection with, the alien's departure. The departure-control officer may permit certain other persons, including officials of the Department of State and interpreters, to participate in such examination or inspection and may exclude from presence at such examination or inspection any person whose presence would not further the objectives of such examination or inspection. The departure-control officer shall temporarily prevent the departure of any alien who refuses to submit to such examination or inspection, and may, if necessary to the enforcement of this requirement, take possession of the alien's passport or other travel document.
§ 215.3
Alien whose departure is deemed prejudicial to the interests of the United States.
The departure from the United States of any alien within one or more of the following categories shall be deemed prejudicial to the interests of the United States.
(a) Any alien who is in possession of, and who is believed likely to disclose to unauthorized persons, information concerning the plans, preparation, equipment, or establishments for the national defense and security of the United States.
(b) Any alien who seeks to depart from the United States to engage in, or who is likely to engage in, activities of any kind designed to obstruct, impede, retard, delay or counteract the effectiveness of the national defense of the United States or the measures adopted by the United States or the United Nations for the defense of any other country.
(c) Any alien who seeks to depart from the United States to engage in, or who is likely to engage in, activities which would obstruct, impede, retard, delay, or counteract the effectiveness of any plans made or action taken by any country cooperating with the United States in measures adopted to promote the peace, defense, or safety of the United States or such other country.
(d) Any alien who seeks to depart from the United States for the purpose of organizing, directing, or participating in any rebellion, insurrection, or violent uprising in or against the United States or a country allied with the United States, or of waging war against the United States or its allies, or of destroying, or depriving the United States of sources of supplies or materials vital to the national defense of the United States, or to the effectiveness of the measures adopted by the United States for its defense, or for the defense of any other country allied with the United States.
(e) Any alien who is subject to registration for training and service in the Armed Forces of the United States and who fails to present a Registration Certificate (SSS Form No. 2) showing that he has complied with his obligation to
register under the Universal Military Training and Service Act, as amended.
(f) Any alien who is a fugitive from justice on account of an offense punishable in the United States.
(g) Any alien who is needed in the United States as a witness in, or as a party to, any criminal case under investigation or pending in a court in the United States:
Provided,
That any alien who is a witness in, or a party to, any criminal case pending in any criminal court proceeding may be permitted to depart from the United States with the consent of the appropriate prosecuting authority, unless such alien is otherwise prohibited from departing under the provisions of this part.
(h) Any alien who is needed in the United States in connection with any investigation or proceeding being, or soon to be, conducted by any official executive, legislative, or judicial agency in the United States or by any governmental committee, board, bureau, commission, or body in the United States, whether national, state, or local.
(i) Any alien whose technical or scientific training and knowledge might be utilized by an enemy or a potential enemy of the United States to undermine and defeat the military and defensive operations of the United States or of any nation cooperating with the United States in the interests of collective security.
(j) Any alien, where doubt exists whether such alien is departing or seeking to depart from the United States voluntarily except an alien who is departing or seeking to depart subject to an order issued in extradition, exclusion, or deportation proceedings.
(k) Any alien whose case does not fall within any of the categories described in paragraphs (a) to (j), inclusive, of this section, but which involves circumstances of a similar character rendering the alien's departure prejudicial to the interests of the United States.
§ 215.4
Procedure in case of alien prevented from departing from the United States.
(a) Any alien, other than an enemy alien, whose departure has been temporarily prevented under the provisions of § 215.2, may, within 15 days of the service upon him of the written order temporarily preventing his departure, request a hearing before a special inquiry officer. The alien's request for a hearing shall be made in writing and shall be addressed to the district director having administrative jurisdiction over the alien's place of residence. If the alien's request for a hearing is timely made, the district director shall schedule a hearing before a special inquiry officer, and notice of such hearing shall be given to the alien. The notice of hearing shall, as specifically as security considerations permit, inform the alien of the nature of the case against him, shall fix the time and place of the hearing, and shall inform the alien of his right to be represented, at no expense to the Government, by counsel of his own choosing.
(b) Every alien for whom a hearing has been scheduled under paragraph (a) of this section shall be entitled: (1) To appear in person before the special inquiry officer, (2) to be represented by counsel of his own choice, (3) to have the opportunity to be heard and to present evidence, (4) to cross-examine the witnesses who appear at the hearing, except that if, in the course of the examination, it appears that further examination may divulge information of a confidential or security nature, the special inquiry officer may, in his discretion, preclude further examination of the witness with respect to such matters, (5) to examine any evidence in possession of the Government which is to be considered in the disposition of the case, provided that such evidence is not of a confidential or security nature the disclosure of which would be prejudicial to the interests of the United States, (6) to have the time and opportunity to produce evidence and witnesses on his own behalf, and (7) to reasonable continuances, upon request, for good cause shown.
(c) Any special inquiry officer who is assigned to conduct the hearing provided for in this section shall have the authority to: (1) Administer oaths and affirmations, (2) present and receive evidence, (3) interrogate, examine, and cross examine under oath or affirmation both the alien and witnesses, (4) rule upon all objections to the introduction of evidence or motions made
during the course of the hearing, (5) take or cause depositions to be taken, (6) issue subpoenas, and (7) take any further action consistent with applicable provisions of law, Executive orders, proclamations, and regulations.
§ 215.5
Hearing procedure before special inquiry officer.
(a) The hearing before the special inquiry officer shall be conducted in accordance with the following procedure:
(1) The special inquiry officer shall advise the alien of the rights and privileges accorded him under the provisions of § 215.4.
(2) The special inquiry officer shall enter of record: (i) A copy of the order served upon the alien temporarily preventing his departure from the United States, and (ii) a copy of the notice of hearing furnished the alien.
(3) The alien shall be interrogated by the special inquiry officer as to the matters considered pertinent to the proceeding, with opportunity reserved to the alien to testify thereafter in his own behalf, if he so chooses.
(4) The special inquiry officer shall present on behalf of the Government such evidence, including the testimony of witnesses and the certificates or written statements of Government officials or other persons, as may be necessary and available. In the event such certificates or statements are received in evidence, the alien may request and, in the discretion of the special inquiry officer, be given an opportunity to interrogate such officials or persons, by deposition or otherwise, at a time and place and in a manner fixed by the special inquiry officer:
Provided,
That when in the judgment of the special inquiry officer any evidence relative to the disposition of the case is of a confidential or security nature the disclosure of which would be prejudicial to the interests of the United States, such evidence shall not be presented at the hearing but shall be taken into consideration in arriving at a decision in the case.
(5) The alien may present such additional evidence, including the testimony of witnesses, as is pertinent and available.
(b) A complete verbatim transcript of the hearing, except statements made off the record shall be recorded. The alien shall be entitled, upon request, to the loan of a copy of the transcript, without cost, subject to reasonable conditions governing its use.
(c) Following the completion of the hearing, the special inquiry officer shall make and render a recommended decision in the case, which shall be governed by and based upon the evidence presented at the hearing and any evidence of a confidential or security nature which the Government may have in its possession. The decision of the special inquiry officer shall recommend: (1) That the temporary order preventing the departure of the alien from the United States be made final, or (2) that the temporary order preventing the departure of the alien from the United States be revoked. This recommended decision of the special inquiry officer shall be made in writing and shall set forth the officer's reasons for such decision. The alien concerned shall at his request be furnished a copy of the recommended decision of the special inquiry officer, and shall be allowed a reasonable time, not to exceed 10 days, in which to submit representations with respect thereto in writing.
(d) As soon as practicable after the completion of the hearing and the rendering of a decision by the special inquiry officer, the district director shall forward the entire record of the case, including the recommended decision of the special inquiry officer and any written representations submitted by the alien, to the regional commissioner having jurisdiction over his district. After reviewing the record, the regional commissioner shall render a decision in the case, which shall be based upon the evidence in the record and on any evidence or information of a confidential or security nature which he deems pertinent. Whenever any decision is based in whole or in part on confidential or security information not included in the record, the decision shall state that such information was considered. A copy of the regional commissioner's decision shall be furnished the alien, or his attorney or representative. No administrative appeal shall lie from the regional commissioner's decision.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, the Administrator of the Bureau of Security and Consular Affairs referred to in section 104(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, or such other officers of the Department of State as he may designate, after consultation with the Commissioner, or such other officers of the Immigration and Naturalization Service as he may designate, may at any time permit the departure of an individual alien or of a group of aliens from the United States if he determines that such action would be in the national interest. If the Administrator specifically requests the Commissioner to prevent the departure of a particular alien or of a group of aliens, the Commissioner shall not permit the departure of such alien or aliens until he has consulted with the Administrator.
(f) In any case arising under §§ 215.1 to 215.7, the Administrator shall, at his request, be kept advised, in as much detail as he may indicate is necessary, of the facts and of any action taken or proposed.
§ 215.6
Departure from the Canal Zone, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, or outlying possessions of the United States.
(a) In addition to the restrictions and prohibitions imposed by the provisions of this part upon the departure of aliens from the United States, any alien who seeks to depart from the Canal Zone, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, or an outlying possession of the United States shall comply with such other restrictions and prohibitions as may be imposed by regulations prescribed, with the concurrence of the Administrator of the Bureau of Security and Consular Affairs and the Commissioner, by the Governor of the Canal Zone, the High Commissioner of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, or by the governor of an outlying possession of the United States, respectively. No alien shall be prevented from departing from such zone, territory, or possession without first being accorded a hearing as provided in §§ 215.4 and 215.5.
(b) The Governor of the Canal Zone, the High Commissioner of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, or the governor of any outlying possession of the United States shall have the authority to designate any employee or class of employees of the United States as hearing officers for the purpose of conducting the hearing referred to in paragraph (a) of this section. The hearing officer so designated shall exercise the same powers, duties, and functions as are conferred upon special inquiry officers under the provisions of this part. The chief executive officer of such zone, territory, or possession shall, in lieu of the regional commissioner, review the recommended decision of the hearing officer, and shall render a decision in any case referred to him, basing it on evidence in the record and on any evidence or information of a confidential or a security nature which he deems pertinent.
§ 215.7
Instructions from the Administrator required in certain cases.
In the absence of appropriate instructions from the Administrator of the Bureau of Security and Consular Affairs, departure-control officers shall not exercise the authority conferred by § 215.2 in the case of any alien who seeks to depart from the United States in the status of a nonimmigrant under section 101(a)(15) (A) or (G) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, or in the status of a nonimmigrant under section 11(3), 11(4), or 11(5) of the Agreement between the United Nations and the United States of America regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations (61 Stat. 756):
Provided,
That in cases of extreme urgency, where the national security so requires, a departure-control officer may preliminarily exercise the authority conferred by § 215.2 pending the outcome of consultation with the Administrator, which shall be undertaken immediately. In all cases arising under this section, the decision of the Administrator shall be controlling:
Provided,
That any decision to prevent the departure of an alien shall be based upon a hearing and record as prescribed in this part.
§ 215.8
Requirements for biometric identifiers from aliens on departure from the United States.
(a)(1) The Secretary of Homeland Security, or his designee, may establish
pilot programs at land border ports of entry, and at up to fifteen air or sea ports of entry, designated through notice in the
Federal Register,
through which the Secretary or his delegate may require an alien admitted to or paroled into the United States, other than aliens exempted under paragraph (a)(2) of this section or Canadian citizens under section 101(a)(15)(B) of the Act who were not otherwise required to present a visa or have been issued Form I-94 (see § 1.4) or Form I-95 upon arrival at the United States, who departs the United States from a designated port of entry, to provide fingerprints, photograph(s) or other specified biometric identifiers, documentation of his or her immigration status in the United States, and such other evidence as may be requested to determine the alien's identity and whether he or she has properly maintained his or her status while in the United States.
(2) The requirements of paragraph (a)(1) shall not apply to:
(i) Aliens younger than 14 or older than 79 on date of departure;
(ii) Aliens admitted on A-1, A-2, C-3 (except for attendants, servants, or personal employees of accredited officials), G-1, G-2, G-3, G-4, NATO-1, NATO-2, NATO-3, NATO-4, NATO-5, or NATO-6 visas, and certain Taiwan officials who hold E-1 visas and members of their immediate families who hold E-1 visas who are maintaining such status at time of departure, unless the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security jointly determine that a class of such aliens should be subject to the requirements of paragraph (a)(1);
(iii) Classes of aliens to whom the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Secretary of State jointly determine it shall not apply; or
(iv) An individual alien to whom the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of State, or the Director of Central Intelligence determines it shall not apply.
(b) An alien who is required to provide biometric identifiers at departure pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) and who fails to comply with the departure requirements may be found in violation of the terms of his or her admission, parole, or other immigration status. In addition, failure of a covered alien to comply with the departure requirements could be a factor in support of a determination that the alien is ineligible to receive a future visa or other immigration status documentation, or to be admitted to the United States. In making this determination, the officer will consider the totality of the circumstances, including, but not limited to, all positive and negative factors related to the alien's ability to comply with the departure procedures.
(c) A covered alien who leaves the United States without complying with the departure requirements in this section may be found to have overstayed the period of his or her last admission where the available evidence clearly indicates that the alien did not depart the United States within the time period authorized at his or her last admission or extension of stay. A determination that the alien previously overstayed the terms of his admission may result in a finding of inadmissibility for accruing prior unlawful presence in the United States under section 212(a)(9) of the Immigration and Nationality Act or that the alien is otherwise ineligible for a visa or other authorization to reenter the United States, provided that all other requirements of section 212(a)(9) have been met. A determination that an alien who was admitted on the basis of a nonimmigrant visa has remained in the United States beyond his or her authorized period of stay may result in such visa being deemed void pursuant to section 222(g) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1202(g)) where all other requirements of that section are also met.
[69 FR 480, Jan. 5, 2004, as amended at 69 FR 53333, Aug. 31, 2004; 69 FR 58037, Sept. 29, 2004; 73 FR 77491, Dec. 19, 2008; 78 FR 18472, Mar. 27, 2013]
§ 215.9
Temporary Worker Visa Exit Program.
An alien admitted on certain temporary worker visas at a port of entry participating in the Temporary Worker Visa Exit Program must also depart at the end of his or her authorized period of stay through a port of entry participating in the program and must present designated biographic and/or biometric information upon departure.
U.S. Customs and Border Protection will publish a Notice in the
Federal Register
designating which temporary workers must participate in the Temporary Worker Visa Exit Program, which ports of entry are participating in the program, which biographical and/or biometric information would be required, and the format for submission of that information by the departing designated temporary workers.
[73 FR 78130, Dec. 19, 2008]

# Subpart B—Electronic Visa Update System

# Source:
81 FR 72491, Oct. 20, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 215.21
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to establish an electronic visa update system for nonimmigrant aliens who hold a passport issued by an identified country containing a U.S. nonimmigrant visa of a designated category.
§ 215.22
Applicability.
This subpart is applicable to nonimmigrant aliens who hold a passport issued by an identified country containing a U.S. nonimmigrant visa of a designated category. The Secretary, in the Secretary's discretion and in consultation with the Secretary of State, may identify countries and designate nonimmigrant visa categories for purposes of this subpart. Notice of the identified countries and designated nonimmigrant visa categories will be published in the
Federal Register
.
§ 215.23
Definitions.
The following definitions apply for purposes of this subpart.
(a)
Covered alien.
A covered alien is a nonimmigrant alien who holds a passport issued by an EVUS country (as defined in paragraph (c) of this section) containing a U.S. nonimmigrant visa of a designated category.
(b)
Electronic Visa Update System (EVUS).
The Electronic Visa Update System (EVUS) is the electronic system used by a covered alien to provide required information to DHS after the receipt of his or her visa of a designated category.
(c)
EVUS country.
An EVUS country is a country that has been identified for inclusion in EVUS, through publication of a notice in the
Federal Register,
by the Secretary after consultation with the Secretary of State.
(d)
Notification of compliance.
A notification of compliance is a verification from CBP that a covered alien has successfully enrolled in EVUS. A notification of compliance is a positive determination that an alien's visa is:
(1) Not automatically provisionally revoked pursuant to 22 CFR 41.122(b)(3); and
(2) Is considered valid for travel to the United States as of the time of notification.
§ 215.24
Electronic Visa Update System (EVUS) requirements.
(a)
Enrollment required.
Each covered alien must initially enroll in EVUS, in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, by providing the information set forth in paragraph (d) of this section electronically through EVUS. Each covered alien who intends to travel to the United States must have a valid notification of compliance as set forth in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Upon each successful enrollment or re-enrollment, CBP will issue a notification of compliance.
(b)
Validity period of notification of compliance
—(1)
General validity period.
A notification of compliance will generally be valid for a period of two years from the date the notification of compliance is issued, except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section.
(2)
Exception.
If the nonimmigrant alien's passport or nonimmigrant visa will expire in less than two years from the date the notification of compliance is issued, the notification will be valid until the date of expiration of the passport or nonimmigrant visa, whichever is sooner.
(3)
Change in validity period of notification of compliance.
The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of State, may increase or decrease the notification of compliance validity period otherwise authorized by paragraph (b)(1) of this section for an EVUS country. Any such increase or decrease would apply to subsequently issued notifications of compliance. Any changes
to the validity period will be done through rulemaking. The EVUS Web site will be updated to reflect the specific duration of notification of compliance validity periods for each EVUS country.
(4)
Relation to nonimmigrant visa validity.
A notification of compliance is not valid unless the alien's nonimmigrant visa also is valid.
(c)
Schedule for EVUS enrollment
—(1)
Initial EVUS enrollment
—(i)
Visas received prior to November 29, 2016
. Each covered alien who received his or her nonimmigrant visa of a designated category prior to November 29, 2016 must initially enroll in EVUS by December 14, 2016, unless the covered alien intends to travel to the United States before that date, in which case the requirements for EVUS enrollment outlined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section apply.
(ii)
Visas received on or after November 29, 2016.
Each covered alien who received his or her nonimmigrant visa of a designated category on or after November 29, 2016 must initially enroll in EVUS upon receipt of such visa.
(2)
EVUS re-enrollment requirements prior to travel to the United States
—(i)
Individuals arriving at air or sea ports of entry.
Each covered alien who intends to travel by air or sea to the United States on a nonimmigrant visa of a designated category must have a notification of compliance that is valid, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, prior to boarding a carrier destined for travel to the United States through the date when the covered alien will arrive at a U.S. port of entry.
(ii)
Individuals arriving at land ports of entry.
Each covered alien who intends to travel by land to the United States on a nonimmigrant visa of a designated category must have a notification of compliance that is valid, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, through the date of application for admission to the United States.
(d)
Required EVUS enrollment elements.
DHS will collect such information from covered aliens as DHS deems necessary in its discretion, after consultation with the Department of State. The required information will be reflected in the EVUS enrollment questions.
(e)
EVUS re-enrollment required.
Each covered alien must re-enroll in EVUS and obtain a new notification of compliance from CBP if any of the following occurs:
(1) The alien is issued a new passport or new nonimmigrant visa of a designated category;
(2) The alien changes his or her name;
(3) The alien changes his or her gender;
(4) There is any change to the alien's country of citizenship or nationality, including becoming a dual national; or
(5) The circumstances underlying the alien's previous responses to any of the EVUS enrollment questions requiring a “yes” or “no” response (eligibility questions) have changed.
(f)
Limitation.
A notification of compliance is not a determination that the covered alien is admissible to the United States. A determination of admissibility is made after an applicant for admission is inspected by a CBP officer at a U.S. port of entry.
(g)
Noncompliance, expiration of notification of compliance, and change in EVUS status resulting in rescission of notification of compliance
—(1)
Initial EVUS enrollment.
Failure to initially enroll in EVUS in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section will result in the automatic provisional revocation of the covered alien's nonimmigrant visa pursuant to 22 CFR 41.122(b)(3), pending enrollment.
(2)
Expiration of notification of compliance.
Upon expiration of a notification of compliance, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, the covered alien's nonimmigrant visa will be automatically provisionally revoked pursuant to 22 CFR 41.122(b)(3), pending re-enrollment. To prevent the automatic provisional revocation of his or her nonimmigrant visa due to the expiration of the notification of compliance, each covered alien must re-enroll in EVUS prior to such expiration.
(3)
Unsuccessful EVUS enrollment.
If a covered alien's EVUS enrollment or re-enrollment is unsuccessful, his or her nonimmigrant visa will be automatically provisionally revoked pursuant to 22 CFR 41.122(b)(3), pending successful enrollment or re-enrollment.
(4)
Change in EVUS status after receipt of a notification of compliance.
In the event that irreconcilable errors are discovered after the issuance of a notification of compliance, or other circumstances occur including but not limited to a change in the validity period of the notification of compliance as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, CBP may rescind the notification of compliance. If a covered alien's notification of compliance is rescinded, his or her nonimmigrant visa will be automatically provisionally revoked pursuant to 22 CFR 41.122(b)(3), pending successful enrollment. CBP will attempt to provide notification of a change in EVUS status to the covered alien through the provided email address.
(h)
Reversal of an automatically provisionally revoked visa and steps to address an unsuccessful EVUS enrollment or rescission of a notification of compliance
—(1)
Reversal of an automatically provisionally revoked visa.
If a covered alien's nonimmigrant visa has been automatically provisionally revoked as described in paragraph (g)(1) or (2) of this section, the revocation of the alien's visa will be automatically reversed, following compliance with EVUS, if the visa remains valid and was not also revoked on other grounds. After a reversal of the revocation the visa will immediately resume the validity provided for on its face, pursuant to 22 CFR 41.122(b)(3), after the alien enrolls in EVUS and receives a notification of compliance.
(2)
Unsuccessful EVUS enrollment.
If a covered alien's EVUS enrollment is unsuccessful per paragraph (g)(3) of this section, the covered alien may re-attempt enrollment or contact CBP.
(3)
Rescission of notification of compliance.
If a covered alien's nonimmigrant visa has been automatically provisionally revoked as described in paragraph (g)(4) of this section, the covered alien may re-attempt enrollment or contact CBP.
Pt. 216

# PART 216—CONDITIONAL BASIS OF LAWFUL PERMANENT RESIDENCE STATUS
Sec.
216.1
Definition of conditional permanent resident.
216.2
Notification requirements.
216.3
Termination of conditional resident status.
216.4
Joint petition to remove conditional basis of lawful permanent resident status for alien spouse.
216.5
Waiver of requirement to file joint petition to remove conditions by alien spouse.
216.6
Petition by investor to remove conditional basis of lawful permanent resident status.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1101, 1103, 1154, 1184, 1186a, 1186b, and 8 CFR part 2.

# Source:
53 FR 30018, Aug. 10, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 216.1
Definition of conditional permanent resident.
A
conditional permanent resident
is an alien who has been lawfully admitted for permanent residence within the meaning of section 101(a)(20) of the Act, except that a conditional permanent resident is also subject to the conditions and responsibilities set forth in section 216 or 216A of the Act, whichever is applicable, and part 216 of this chapter. Unless otherwise specified, the rights, privileges, responsibilities and duties which apply to all other lawful permanent residents apply equally to conditional permanent residents, including but not limited to the right to apply for naturalization (if otherwise eligible), the right to file petitions on behalf of qualifying relatives, the privilege of residing permanently in the United States as an immigrant in accordance with the immigration laws, such status not having changed; the duty to register with the Selective Service System, when required; and the responsibility for complying with all laws and regulations of the United States. All references within this chapter to lawful permanent residents apply equally to conditional permanent residents, unless otherwise specified. The conditions of section 216 of the Act shall not apply to lawful permanent resident status based on a self-petitioning relationship under section 204(a)(1)(A)(iii), 204(a)(1)(A)(iv), 204(a)(1)(b)(ii), or 204(a)(1)(B)(iii) of the Act or based on eligibility as the derivative child of a self-petitioning spouse under section 204(a)(1)(A)(iii) or 204(a)(1)(B)(ii) of the Act, regardless of the date on which the marriage to the
abusive citizen or lawful permanent resident occurred.
[53 FR 30018, Aug. 10, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 26590, May 23, 1994; 61 FR 13079, Mar. 26, 1996]
§ 216.2
Notification requirements.
(a)
When alien acquires status of conditional permanent resident.
At the time an alien acquires conditional permanent residence through admission to the United States with an immigrant visa or adjustment of status under section 245 of the Act, the Service shall notify the alien of the conditional basis of the alien's status, of the requirement that the alien apply for removal of the conditions within the ninety days immediately preceding the second anniversary of the alien's having been granted such status, and that failure to apply for removal of the conditions will result in automatic termination of the alien's lawful status in the United States.
(b)
When alien is required to apply for removal of the conditional basis of lawful permanent resident status.
Approximately 90 days before the second anniversary of the date on which the alien obtained conditional permanent residence, the Service should notify the alien a second time of the requirement that the alien and the petitioning spouse or alien entrepreneur must file a petition to remove the conditional basis of the alien's lawful permanent residence. Such notification shall be mailed to the alien's last known address.
(c)
Effect of failure to provide notification.
Failure of the Service to provide notification as required by either paragraph (a) or (b) of this section does not relieve the alien and the petitioning spouse, or alien entrepreneur of the requirement to file a petition to remove conditions within the 90 days immediately preceding the second anniversary of the date on which the alien obtained permanent residence.
[53 FR 30018, Aug. 10, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 26590, May 23, 1994]
§ 216.3
Termination of conditional resident status.
(a)
During the two-year conditional period.
The director shall send a formal written notice to the conditional permanent resident of the termination of the alien's conditional permanent resident status if the director determines that any of the conditions set forth in section 216(b)(1) or 216A(b)(1) of the Act, whichever is applicable, are true, or it becomes known to the government that an alien entrepreneur who was admitted pursuant to section 203(b)(5) of the Act obtained his or her investment capital through other than legal means (such as through the sale of illegal drugs). If the Service issues a notice of intent to terminate an alien's conditional resident status, the director shall not adjudicate Form I-751 or Form I-829 until it has been determined that the alien's status will not be terminated. During this time, the alien shall continue to be a lawful conditional permanent resident with all the rights, privileges, and responsibilities provided to persons possessing such status. Prior to issuing the notice of termination, the director shall provide the alien with an opportunity to review and rebut the evidence upon which the decision is to be based, in accordance with § 103.2(b)(2) of this chapter. The termination of status, and all of the rights and privileges concomitant thereto (including authorization to accept or continue in employment in this country), shall take effect as of the date of such determination by the director, although the alien may request a review of such determination in removal proceedings. In addition to the notice of termination, the director shall issue a notice to appear in accordance with 8 CFR part 239. During the ensuing removal proceedings, the alien may submit evidence to rebut the determination of the director. The burden of proof shall be on the Service to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, that one or more of the conditions in section 216(b)(1) or 216A(b)(1) of the Act, whichever is applicable, are true, or that an alien entrepreneur who was admitted pursuant to section 203(b)(5) of the Act obtained his or her investment capital through other than legal means (such as through the sale of illegal drugs).
(b)
Determination of fraud after two years.
If, subsequent to the removal of the conditional basis of an alien's permanent resident status, the director
determines that an alien spouse obtained permanent resident status through a marriage which was entered into for the purpose of evading the immigration laws or an alien entrepreneur obtained permanent resident status through a commercial enterprise which was improper under section 216A(b)(1) of the Act, the director may institute rescission proceedings pursuant to section 246 of the Act (if otherwise appropriate) or removal proceedings under section 240 of the Act.
[62 FR 10349, Mar. 6, 1997]
§ 216.4
Joint petition to remove conditional basis of lawful permanent resident status for alien spouse.
(a)
Filing the petition
—(1)
General procedures.
Within the 90-day period immediately preceding the second anniversary of the date on which the alien obtained permanent residence, the alien and the alien's spouse who filed the original immigrant visa petition or fiance/fiancee petition through which the alien obtained permanent residence must file a Petition to Remove the Conditions on Residence (Form I-751) with the Service. The petition shall be filed within this time period regardless of the amount of physical presence which the alien has accumulated in the United States. Before Form I-751 may be considered as properly filed, it must be accompanied by the fee required under 8 CFR 106.2 and by documentation as described in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, and it must be properly signed by the alien and the alien's spouse. If the joint petition cannot be filed due to the termination of the marriage through annulment, divorce, or the death of the petitioning spouse, or if the petitioning spouse refuses to join in the filing of the petition, the conditional permanent resident may apply for a waiver of the requirement to file the joint petition in accordance with the provisions of § 216.5 of this part. Upon receipt of a properly filed Form I-751, the alien's conditional permanent resident status shall be extended automatically, if necessary, until such time as the director has adjudicated the petition.
(2)
Dependent children.
Dependent children of a conditional permanent resident who acquired conditional permanent resident status concurrently with the parent may be included in the joint petition filed by the parent and the parent's petitioning spouse. A child shall be deemed to have acquired conditional residence status concurrently with the parent if the child's residence was acquired on the same date or within 90 days thereafter. Children who cannot be included in a joint petition filed by the parent and parent's petitioning spouse due to the child's not having acquired conditional resident status concurrently with the parent, the death of the parent, or other reasons may file a separate Petition to Remove the Conditions on Residence (Form I-751).
(3) [Reserved]
(4)
Physical presence at time of filing.
A petition may be filed regardless of whether the alien is physically present in the United States. However, if the alien is outside the United States at the time of filing, he or she must return to the United States, with his or her spouse and dependent children, to comply with the interview requirements contained in the Act. Furthermore, if the documentation submitted in support of the petition includes affidavits of third parties having knowledge of the bona fides of the marital relationship, the petitioner must arrange for the affiants to be present at the interview, at no expense to the government. Once the petition has been properly filed, the alien may travel outside the United States and return if in possession of documentation as set forth in § 211.1(b)(1) of this chapter, provided the alien and the petitioning spouse comply with the interview requirements described in § 216.4(b). An alien who is not physically present in the United States during the filing period but subsequently applies for admission to the United States shall be processed in accordance with § 235.11 of this chapter.
(5)
Documentation.
Form I-751 shall be accompanied by evidence that the marriage was not entered into for the purpose of evading the immigration laws of the United States. Such evidence may include:
(i) Documentation showing joint ownership of property;
(ii) Lease showing joint tenancy of a common residence;
(iii) Documentation showing commingling of financial resources;
(iv) Birth certificates of children born to the marriage;
(v) Affidavits of third parties having knowledge of the bona fides of the marital relationship, or
(vi) Other documentation establishing that the marriage was not entered into in order to evade the immigration laws of the United States.
(6)
Termination of status for failure to file petition.
Failure to properly file Form I-751 within the 90-day period immediately preceding the second anniversary of the date on which the alien obtained lawful permanent residence on a conditional basis shall result in the automatic termination of the alien's permanent residence status and the initiation of proceedings to remove the alien from the United States. In such proceedings the burden shall be on the alien to establish that he or she complied with the requirement to file the joint petition within the designated period. Form I-751 may be filed after the expiration of the 90-day period only if the alien establishes to the satisfaction of the director, in writing, that there was good cause for the failure to file Form I-751 within the required time period. If the joint petition is filed prior to the jurisdiction vesting with the immigration judge in removal proceedings and the director excuses the late filing and approves the petition, he or she shall restore the alien's permanent residence status, remove the conditional basis of such status and cancel any outstanding notice to appear in accordance with § 239.2 of this chapter. If the joint petition is not filed until after jurisdiction vests with the immigration judge, the immigration judge may terminate the matter upon joint motion by the alien and the Service.
(b)
Interview
—(1)
Authority to waive interview.
The director of the regional service center shall review the Form I-751 filed by the alien and the alien's spouse to determine whether to waive the interview required by the Act. If satisfied that the marriage was not for the purpose of evading the immigration laws, the regional service center director may waive the interview and approve the petition. If not so satisfied, then the regional service center director shall forward the petition to the district director having jurisdiction over the place of the alien's residence so that an interview of both the alien and the alien's spouse may be conducted. The director must either waive the requirement for an interview and adjudicate the petition or arrange for an interview within 90 days of the date on which the petition was properly filed.
(2)
Location of interview.
Unless waived, an interview on the Form I-751 shall be conducted by an immigration examiner or other officer so designated by the district director at the district office, files control office or suboffice having jurisdiction over the residence of the joint petitioners.
(3)
Termination of status for failure to appear for interview.
If the conditional resident alien and/or the petitioning spouse fail to appear for an interview in connection with the joint petition required by section 216(c) of the Act, the alien's permanent residence status will be automatically terminated as of the second anniversary of the date on which the alien obtained permanent residence. The alien shall be provided with written notification of the termination and the reasons therefor, and a notice to appear shall be issued placing the alien under removal proceedings. The alien may seek review of the decision to terminate his or her status in such proceedings, but the burden shall be on the alien to establish compliance with the interview requirements. If the alien submits a written request that the interview be rescheduled or that the interview be waived, and the director determines that there is good cause for granting the request, the interview may be rescheduled or waived, as appropriate. If the interview is rescheduled at the request of the petitioners, the Service shall not be required to conduct the interview within the 90-day period following the filing of the petition.
(c)
Adjudication of petition.
The director shall adjudicate the petition within
90 days of the date of the interview, unless the interview is waived in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section. In adjudicating the petition the director shall determine whether—
(1) The qualifying marriage was entered into in accordance with the laws of the place where the marriage took place;
(2) The qualifying marriage has been judicially annulled or terminated, other than through the death of a spouse;
(3) The qualifying marriage was entered into for the purpose of procuring permanent residence status for the alien; or
(4) A fee or other consideration was given (other than a fee or other consideration to an attorney for assistance in preparation of a lawful petition) in connection with the filing of the petition through which the alien obtained conditional permanent residence. If derogatory information is determined regarding any of these issues, the director shall offer the petitioners the opportunity to rebut such information. If the petitioners fail to overcome such derogatory information the director may deny the joint petition, terminate the alien's permanent residence, and issue a notice to appear to initiate removal proceedings. If derogatory information not relating to any of these issues is determined during the course of the interview, such information shall be forwarded to the investigations unit for appropriate action. If no unresolved derogatory information is determined relating to these issues, the petition shall be approved and the conditional basis of the alien's permanent residence status removed, regardless of any action taken or contemplated regarding other possible grounds for removal.
(d)
Decision
—(1)
Approval.
If the director approves the joint petition he or she shall provide written notice of the decision to the alien and shall require the alien to report to the appropriate office of the Service for processing for a new Permanent Resident Card (if necessary), at which time the alien shall surrender any Permanent Resident Card previously issued.
(2)
Denial.
If the director denies the joint petition, he or she shall provide written notice to the alien of the decision and the reason(s) therefor and shall issue a notice to appear under section 239 of the Act and 8 CFR part 239. The alien's lawful permanent resident status shall be terminated as of the date of the director's written decision. The alien shall also be instructed to surrender any Permanent Resident Card previously issued by the Service. No appeal shall lie from the decision of the director; however, the alien may seek review of the decision in removal proceedings. In such proceedings the burden of proof shall be on the Service to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the facts and information set forth by the petitioners are not true or that the petition was properly denied.
[53 FR 30018, Aug. 10, 1988, as amended at 54 FR 30369, July 20, 1989; 59 FR 26590, May 23, 1994; 62 FR 10349, Mar. 6, 1997; 63 FR 70315, Dec. 21, 1998; 74 FR 26939, June 5, 2009; 85 FR 46925, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 216.5
Waiver of requirement to file joint petition to remove conditions by alien spouse.
(a)
General.
(1) A conditional resident alien who is unable to meet the requirements under section 216 of the Act for a joint petition for removal of the conditional basis of his or her permanent resident status may file Form I-751, Petition to Remove the Conditions on Residence, if the alien requests a waiver, was not at fault in failing to meet the filing requirement, and the conditional resident alien is able to establish that:
(i) Deportation or removal from the United States would result in extreme hardship;
(ii) The marriage upon which his or her status was based was entered into in good faith by the conditional resident alien, but the marriage was terminated other than by death, and the conditional resident was not at fault in failing to file a timely petition; or
(iii) The qualifying marriage was entered into in good faith by the conditional resident but during the marriage the alien spouse or child was battered by or subjected to extreme cruelty committed by the citizen or permanent resident spouse or parent.
(2) A conditional resident who is in exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings may apply for the waiver only until such time as there is a final order of exclusion, deportation or removal.
(b)
Fee.
Form I-751 shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee required under 8 CFR 106.2.
(c) [Reserved]
(d)
Interview.
The service center director may refer the application to the appropriate local office and require that the alien appear for an interview in connection with the application for a waiver. The director shall deny the application and initiate removal proceedings if the alien fails to appear for the interview as required, unless the alien establishes good cause for such failure and the interview is rescheduled.
(e)
Adjudication of waiver application
—(1)
Application based on claim of hardship.
In considering an application for a waiver based upon an alien's claim that extreme hardship would result from the alien's removal from the United States, the director shall take into account only those factors that arose subsequent to the alien's entry as a conditional permanent resident. The director shall bear in mind that any removal from the United States is likely to result in a certain degree of hardship, and that only in those cases where the hardship is extreme should the application for a waiver be granted. The burden of establishing that extreme hardship exists rests solely with the applicant.
(2)
Application for waiver based upon the alien's claim that the marriage was entered into in good faith.
In considering whether an alien entered into a qualifying marriage in good faith, the director shall consider evidence relating to the amount of commitment by both parties to the marital relationship. Such evidence may include—
(i) Documentation relating to the degree to which the financial assets and liabilities of the parties were combined;
(ii) Documentation concerning the length of time during which the parties cohabited after the marriage and after the alien obtained permanent residence;
(iii) Birth certificates of children born to the marriage; and
(iv) Other evidence deemed pertinent by the director.
(3)
Application for waiver based on alien's claim of having been battered or subjected to extreme mental cruelty.
A conditional resident who entered into the qualifying marriage in good faith, and who was battered or was the subject of extreme cruelty or whose child was battered by or was the subject of extreme cruelty perpetrated by the United States citizen or permanent resident spouse during the marriage, may request a waiver of the joint filing requirement. The conditional resident parent of a battered or abused child may apply for the waiver regardless of the child's citizenship or immigration status.
(i) For the purpose of this chapter the phrase “was battered by or was the subject of extreme cruelty” includes, but is not limited to, being the victim of any act or threatened act of violence, including any forceful detention, which results or threatens to result in physical or mental injury. Psychological or sexual abuse or exploitation, including rape, molestation, incest (if the victim is a minor) or forced prostitution shall be considered acts of violence.
(ii) A conditional resident or former conditional resident who has not departed the United States after termination of resident status may apply for the waiver. The conditional resident may apply for the waiver regardless of his or her present marital status. The conditional resident may still be residing with the citizen or permanent resident spouse, or may be divorced or separated.
(iii) Evidence of physical abuse may include, but is not limited to, expert testimony in the form of reports and affidavits from police, judges, medical personnel, school officials and social service agency personnel. The Service must be satisfied with the credibility of the sources of documentation submitted in support of the application.
(iv) The Service is not in a position to evaluate testimony regarding a
claim of extreme mental cruelty provided by unlicensed or untrained individuals. Therefore, all waiver applications based upon claims of extreme mental cruelty must be supported by the evaluation of a professional recognized by the Service as an expert in the field. An evaluation which was obtained in the course of the divorce proceedings may be submitted if it was provided by a professional recognized by the Service as an expert in the field.
(v) The evaluation must contain the professional's full name, professional address and license number. It must also identify the licensing, certifying, or registering authority. The Service retains the right to verify the professional's license.
(vi) The Service's decision on extreme mental cruelty waivers will be based upon the evaluation of the recognized professional. The Service reserves the right to request additional evaluations from expert witnesses chosen by the Service. Requests for additional evaluations must be authorized by the Assistant Regional Commissioner for Adjudications.
(vii) Licensed clinical social workers, psychologists, and psychiatrists are professionals recognized by the Service for the purpose of this section. A clinical social worker who is not licensed only because the state in which he or she practices does not provide for licensing will be considered a licensed professional recognized by the Service if he or she is included in the Register of Clinical Social Workers published by the National Association of Social Workers or is certified by the American Board of Examiners in Clinical Social Work.
(viii) As directed by the statute, the information contained in the application and supporting documents shall not be released without a court order or the written consent of the applicant; or, in the case of a child, the written consent of the parent or legal guardian who filed the waiver application on the child's behalf. Information may be released only to the applicant, his or her authorized representative, an officer of the Department of Justice, or any federal or State law enforcement agency. Any information provided under this part may be used for the purposes of enforcement of the Act or in any criminal proceeding.
(f)
Decision.
The director shall provide the alien with written notice of the decision on the application for waiver. If the decision is adverse, the director shall advise the alien of the reasons therefor, notify the alien of the termination of his or her permanent residence status, instruct the alien to surrender any Permanent Resident Card issued by the Service and issue a notice to appear placing the alien in removal proceedings. No appeal shall lie from the decision of the director; however, the alien may seek review of such decision in removal proceedings.
[53 FR 30018, Aug. 10, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 22637, May 16, 1991; 59 FR 26591, May 23, 1994; 62 FR 10350, Mar. 6, 1997; 63 FR 70315, Dec. 21, 1998; 74 FR 26939, June 5, 2009; 85 FR 46925, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 216.6
Petition by investor to remove conditional basis of lawful permanent resident status.
(a)
Filing the petition
—(1)
General procedures.
(i) A petition to remove the conditional basis of the permanent resident status of an investor accorded conditional permanent residence pursuant to section 203(b)(5) of the Act must be filed by the investor with the appropriate fee. The investor must file within the 90-day period preceding the second anniversary of the date on which the investor acquired conditional permanent residence. Before the petition may be considered as properly filed, it must be accompanied by the fee required under 8 CFR 106.2, and by documentation as described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, and it must be properly signed by the investor. Upon receipt of a properly filed petition, the investor's conditional permanent resident status shall be extended automatically, if necessary, until such time as USCIS has adjudicated the petition.
(ii) The investor's spouse and children may be included in the investor's petition to remove conditions. Where the investor's spouse and children are not included in the investor's petition to remove conditions, the spouse and each child must each file his or her own petition to remove the conditions
on their permanent resident status, unless the investor is deceased. If the investor is deceased, the spouse and children may file separate petitions or may be included in one petition. A child who reached the age of 21 or who married during the period of conditional permanent residence, or a former spouse who became divorced from the investor during the period of conditional permanent residence, may be included in the investor's petition or must each file a separate petition.
(2) [Reserved]
(3)
Physical presence at time of filing.
A petition may be filed regardless of whether the alien is physically present in the United States. However, if the alien is outside the United States at the time of filing, he or she must return to the United States, with his or her spouse and children, if necessary, to comply with the interview requirements contained in the Act. Once the petition has been properly filed, the alien may travel outside the United States and return if in possession of documentation as set forth in § 211.1(b)(1) of this chapter, provided the alien complies with the interview requirements described in paragraph (b) of this section. An alien who is not physically present in the United States during the filing period but subsequently applies for admission to the United States shall be processed in accordance with § 235.11 of this chapter.
(4)
Documentation.
The petition for removal of conditions must be accompanied by the following evidence:
(i) [Reserved]
(ii) Evidence that the alien invested or was actively in the process of investing the requisite capital. Such evidence may include, but is not limited to, an audited financial statement or other probative evidence; and
(iii) Evidence that the alien sustained the actions described in paragraph (a)(4)(i) and (a)(4)(ii) of this section throughout the period of the alien's residence in the United States. The alien will be considered to have sustained the actions required for removal of conditions if he or she has, in good faith, substantially met the capital investment requirement of the statute and continuously maintained his or her capital investment over the two years of conditional residence. Such evidence may include, but is not limited to, bank statements, invoices, receipts, contracts, business licenses, Federal or State income tax returns, and Federal or State quarterly tax statements.
(iv) Evidence that the alien created or can be expected to create within a reasonable time ten full-time jobs for qualifying employees. In the case of a “troubled business” as defined in 8 CFR 204.6(j)(4)(ii), the alien investor must submit evidence that the commercial enterprise maintained the number of existing employees at no less than the pre-investment level for the period following his or her admission as a conditional permanent resident. Such evidence may include payroll records, relevant tax documents, and Forms I-9.
(5)
Termination of status for failure to file petition.
Failure to properly file the petition to remove conditions within the 90-day period immediately preceding the second anniversary of the date on which the investor obtained lawful permanent residence on a conditional basis shall result in the automatic termination of the investor's permanent resident status and the initiation of removal proceedings. USCIS shall send a written notice of termination and a notice to appear to an investor who fails to timely file a petition for removal of conditions. No appeal shall lie from this decision; however, the investor may request a review of the determination during removal proceedings. In proceedings, the burden of proof shall rest with the investor to show by a preponderance of the evidence that he or she complied with the requirement to file the petition within the designated period. USCIS may deem the petition to have been filed prior to the second anniversary of the investor's obtaining conditional permanent resident status and accept and consider a late petition if the investor demonstrates to USCIS' satisfaction that failure to file a timely petition was for good cause and due to extenuating circumstances. If the late petition is filed prior to jurisdiction vesting with the immigration judge in proceedings and USCIS excuses the late filing and approves the petition, USCIS
shall restore the investor's permanent resident status, remove the conditional basis of such status, and cancel any outstanding notice to appear in accordance with 8 CFR 239.2. If the petition is not filed until after jurisdiction vests with the immigration judge, the immigration judge may terminate the matter upon joint motion by the investor and DHS.
(6)
Death of investor and effect on spouse and children.
If an investor dies during the prescribed 2-year period of conditional permanent residence, the spouse and children of the investor will be eligible for removal of conditions if it can be demonstrated that the conditions set forth in paragraph (a)(4) of this section have been met.
(b)
Petition review
—(1)
Authority to waive interview.
USCIS shall review the petition to remove conditions and the supporting documents to determine whether to waive the interview required by the Act. If satisfied that the requirements set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section have been met, USCIS may waive the interview and approve the petition. If not so satisfied, then USCIS may require that an interview of the investor be conducted.
(2)
Location of interview.
Unless waived, an interview relating to the petition to remove conditions for investors shall be conducted by a USCIS immigration officer at the office that has jurisdiction over either the location of the investor's commercial enterprise in the United States, the investor's residence in the United States, or the location of the adjudication of the petition, at the agency's discretion.
(3)
Termination of status for failure to appear for interview.
If the investor fails to appear for an interview in connection with the petition when requested by USCIS, the investor's permanent resident status will be automatically terminated as of the second anniversary of the date on which the investor obtained permanent residence. The investor will be provided with written notification of the termination and the reasons therefore, and a notice to appear shall be issued placing the investor in removal proceedings. The investor may seek review of the decision to terminate his or her status in such proceedings, but the burden shall be on the investor to establish by a preponderance of the evidence that he or she complied with the interview requirements. If the investor has failed to appear for a scheduled interview, he or she may submit a written request to USCIS asking that the interview be rescheduled or that the interview be waived. That request should explain his or her failure to appear for the scheduled interview, and if a request for waiver of the interview, the reasons such waiver should be granted. If USCIS determines that there is good cause for granting the request, the interview may be rescheduled or waived, as appropriate. If USCIS waives the interview, USCIS shall restore the investor's conditional permanent resident status, cancel any outstanding notice to appear in accordance with 8 CFR 239.2, and proceed to adjudicate the investor's petition. If USCIS reschedules that investor's interview, USCIS shall restore the investor's conditional permanent resident status, and cancel any outstanding notice to appear in accordance with 8 CFR 239.2.
(c)
Adjudication of petition.
(1) The decision on the petition shall be made within 90 days of the date of filing or within 90 days of the interview, whichever is later. In adjudicating the petition, the director shall determine whether:
(i) [Reserved]
(ii) The alien invested or was actively in the process of investing the requisite capital; and
(iii) The alien sustained the actions described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this section throughout the period of the alien's residence in the United States. The alien will be considered to have sustained the actions required for removal of conditions if he or she has, in good faith, substantially met the capital investment requirement of the statute and continuously maintained his or her capital investment over the two years of conditional residence.
(iv) The alien created or can be expected to create within a reasonable period of time ten full-time jobs to qualifying employees. In the case of a “troubled business” as defined in 8 CFR 204.6(j)(4)(ii), the alien maintained
the number of existing employees at no less than the pre-investment level for the previous two years.
(2) If derogatory information is determined regarding any of these issues or it becomes known to the government that the investor obtained his or her investment funds through other than legal means, USCIS shall offer the investor the opportunity to rebut such information. If the investor fails to overcome such derogatory information or evidence that the investment funds were obtained through other than legal means, USCIS may deny the petition, terminate the investor's permanent resident status, and issue a notice to appear. If derogatory information not relating to any of these issues is determined during the course of the interview, such information shall be forwarded to the investigations unit for appropriate action. If no unresolved derogatory information is determined relating to these issues, the petition shall be approved and the conditional basis of the investor's permanent resident status removed, regardless of any action taken or contemplated regarding other possible grounds for removal.
(d)
Decision
—(1)
Approval.
If, after initial review or after the interview, USCIS approves the petition, USCIS will remove the conditional basis of the investor's permanent resident status as of the second anniversary of the date on which the investor acquired conditional permanent residence. USCIS shall provide written notice of the decision to the investor. USCIS may request the investor and derivative family members to appear for biometrics at a USCIS facility for processing for a new Permanent Resident Card.
(2)
Denial.
If, after initial review or after the interview, USCIS denies the petition, USCIS will provide written notice to the investor of the decision and the reason(s) therefore, and shall issue a notice to appear. The investor's lawful permanent resident status and that of his or her spouse and any children shall be terminated as of the date of USCIS' written decision. The investor shall also be instructed to surrender any Permanent Resident Card previously issued by USCIS. No appeal shall lie from this decision; however, the investor may seek review of the decision in removal proceedings. In proceedings, the burden shall rest with USCIS to establish by a preponderance of the evidence that the facts and information in the investor's petition for removal of conditions are not true and that the petition was properly denied.
[59 FR 26591, May 23, 1994, as amended at 63 FR 70315, Dec. 21, 1998; 74 FR 26939, June 5, 2009; 84 FR 35809, July 24, 2019; 85 FR 46925, Aug. 3, 2020]
Pt. 217

# PART 217—VISA WAIVER PROGRAM
Sec.
217.1
Scope.
217.2
Eligibility.
217.3
Maintenance of status.
217.4
Inadmissibility and deportability.
217.5
Electronic System for Travel Authorization.
217.6
Carrier agreements.
217.7
Electronic data transmission requirement.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1187; 8 CFR part 2.

# Source:
53 FR 24901, June 30, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 217.1
Scope.
The Visa Waiver Program (VWP) described in this section is established pursuant to the provisions of section 217 of the Act.
[62 FR 10351, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 87 FR 18980, Apr. 1, 2022]
§ 217.2
Eligibility.
(a)
Definitions.
As used in this part, the term:
Carrier
refers to the owner, charterer, lessee, or authorized agent of any commercial vessel or commercial aircraft engaged in transporting passengers to the United States from a foreign place.
Designated country
refers to any country currently designated by the Secretary for participation in the Visa Waiver Program. DHS maintains a list of designated countries at
https://www.dhs.gov/visa-waiver-program.
Round trip ticket
means any return trip transportation ticket in the name of an arriving Visa Waiver Program applicant on a participating carrier valid for at least 1 year, electronic ticket
record, airline employee passes indicating return passage, individual vouchers for return passage, group vouchers for return passage for charter flights, and military travel orders which include military dependents for return to duty stations outside the United States on U.S. military flights. A period of validity of 1 year need not be reflected on the ticket itself, provided that the carrier agrees that it will honor the return portion of the ticket at any time, as provided in Form I-775, Visa Waiver Program Agreement.
(b)
Special program requirements
—(1)
General.
In addition to meeting all of the requirements for the Visa Waiver Program specified in section 217 of the Act, each applicant must possess a valid, unexpired passport issued by a designated country and obtain a travel authorization via the Electronic System for Travel Authorization (ESTA) as provided in § 217.5.
(2)
Persons previously removed as deportable aliens.
Aliens who have been deported or removed from the United States, after having been determined deportable, require the consent of the Attorney General to apply for admission to the United States pursuant to section 212(a)(9)(A)(iii) of the Act. Such persons may not be admitted to the United States under the provisions of this part notwithstanding the fact that the required consent of the Attorney General may have been secured. Such aliens must secure a visa in order to be admitted to the United States as nonimmigrants, unless otherwise exempt.
(c)
Restrictions on manner of arrival
—(1)
Applicants arriving by air and sea.
Applicants must arrive on a carrier that is signatory to a Visa Waiver Program Agreement and at the time of arrival must have a round trip ticket that will transport the traveler out of the United States to any other foreign port or place as long as the trip does not terminate in contiguous territory or an adjacent island; except that the round trip ticket may transport the traveler to contiguous territory or an adjacent island, if the traveler is a resident of the country of destination.
(2)
Applicants arriving at land border ports of entry.
Any Visa Waiver Program applicant arriving at a land border port of entry must provide evidence to the CBP officer of financial solvency and a domicile abroad to which the applicant intends to return. An applicant arriving at a land border port of entry will be charged a fee as prescribed in § 103.7(d)(5) of this chapter for issuance of Form I-94W, Nonimmigrant Visa Waiver Arrival/Departure Form. A round-trip transportation ticket is not required.
(d)
Aliens in transit.
An alien who is in transit through the United States is eligible to apply for admission under the Visa Waiver Program, provided the applicant meets all other program requirements.
[62 FR 10351, Mar. 6, 1997]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 217.2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 217.3
Maintenance of status.
(a)
Satisfactory departure.
If an emergency prevents an alien admitted under this part from departing from the United States within his or her period of authorized stay, the district director having jurisdiction over the place of the alien's temporary stay may, in his or her discretion, grant a period of satisfactory departure not to exceed 30 days. If departure is accomplished during that period, the alien is to be regarded as having satisfactorily accomplished the visit without overstaying the allotted time.
(b)
Readmission after departure to contiguous territory or adjacent island.
An alien admitted to the United States under this part may be readmitted to the United States after a departure to foreign contiguous territory or adjacent island for the balance of his or her original Visa Waiver Program admission period if he or she is otherwise admissible and meets all the conditions of this part with the exception of arrival on a signatory carrier.
[62 FR 10351, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 87 FR 18980, Apr. 1, 2022]
§ 217.4
Inadmissibility and deportability.
(a)
Determinations of inadmissibility.
(1) An alien who applies for admission
under the provisions of section 217 of the Act, who is determined by an immigration officer not to be eligible for admission under that section or to be inadmissible to the United States under one or more of the grounds of inadmissibility listed in section 212 of the Act (other than for lack of a visa), or who is in possession of and presents fraudulent or counterfeit travel documents, will be refused admission into the United States and removed. Such refusal and removal shall be made at the level of the port director or officer-in-charge, or an officer acting in that capacity, and shall be effected without referral of the alien to an immigration judge for further inquiry, examination, or hearing, except that an alien who presents himself or herself as an applicant for admission under section 217 of the Act and applies for asylum in the United States must be issued a Form I-863, Notice of Referral to Immigration Judge, for a proceeding in accordance with 8 CFR 208.2(c)(1) and (c)(2).
(2) The removal of an alien under this section may be deferred if the alien is paroled into the custody of a Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency for criminal prosecution or punishment. This section in no way diminishes the discretionary authority of the Attorney General enumerated in section 212(d) of the Act.
(3) Refusal of admission under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall not constitute removal for purposes of the Act.
(b)
Determination of deportability.
(1) An alien who has been admitted to the United States under the provisions of section 217 of the Act and of this part who is determined by an immigration officer to be deportable from the United States under one or more of the grounds of deportability listed in section 237 of the Act shall be removed from the United States to his or her country of nationality or last residence. Such removal shall be determined by the district director who has jurisdiction over the place where the alien is found, and shall be effected without referral of the alien to an immigration judge for a determination of deportability, except that an alien who was admitted as a Visa Waiver Program visitor who applies for asylum in the United States must be issued a Form I-863 for a proceeding in accordance with 8 CFR 208.2(c)(1) and (c)(2).
(2) Removal by the district director under paragraph (b)(1) of this section is equivalent in all respects and has the same consequences as removal after proceedings conducted under section 240 of the Act.
(c)(1)
Removal of inadmissible aliens who arrived by air or sea.
Removal of an alien from the United States under this section may be effected using the return portion of the round trip passage presented by the alien at the time of entry to the United States as required by section 217(a)(7) of the Act. Such removal shall be on the first available means of transportation to the alien's point of embarkation to the United States. Nothing in this part absolves the carrier of the responsibility to remove any inadmissible or deportable alien at carrier expense, as provided in the carrier agreement.
(2)
Removal of inadmissible and deportable aliens who arrived at land border ports-of-entry.
Removal under this section will be by the first available means of transportation deemed appropriate by the district director.
[53 FR 24901, June 30, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 32953, July 18, 1991; 62 FR 10351, Mar. 6, 1997; 74 FR 55738, Oct. 28, 2009]
§ 217.5
Electronic System for Travel Authorization.
(a)
Travel authorization required.
Each nonimmigrant alien intending to travel by air, sea, or land to the United States under the Visa Waiver Program (VWP) must, within the time specified in paragraph (b) of this section, receive a travel authorization, which is a positive determination of eligibility to travel to the United States under the VWP via the Electronic System for Travel Authorization (ESTA), from CBP. In order to receive a travel authorization, each nonimmigrant alien intending to travel to the United States by air, sea, or land under the VWP must provide the data elements set forth in paragraph (c) of this section to CBP, in English, in the manner specified herein, and must pay a fee as described in paragraph (h) of this section.
(b)
Time
—(1)
Applicants arriving at air or sea ports of entry.
Each alien falling within the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section and intending to travel by air or sea to the United States under the VWP must receive a travel authorization via ESTA prior to boarding a carrier destined for travel to the United States.
(2)
Applicants arriving at land ports of entry.
Each alien falling within the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section and intending to travel by land to the United States under the VWP must receive a travel authorization via ESTA prior to application for admission to the United States.
(c)
Required elements.
CBP will collect such information as the Secretary deems necessary to issue a travel authorization as reflected in the ESTA application.
(d)
Duration
—(1)
General Rule.
A travel authorization issued under ESTA will be valid for a period of two years from the date of issuance, unless the passport of the authorized alien will expire in less than two years, in which case the authorization will be valid until the date of expiration of the passport.
(2)
Exception.
For travelers from countries which have not entered into agreements with the United States whereby their passports are recognized as valid for the return of the bearer to the country of the foreign-issuing authority for a period of six months beyond the expiration date specified in the passport, a travel authorization issued under ESTA is not valid beyond the six months prior to the expiration date of the passport. Travelers from these countries whose passports will expire in six months or less will not receive a travel authorization.
(3) The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of State, may increase or decrease ESTA travel authorization validity period otherwise authorized by subparagraph (1) for a designated VWP country. Notice of any change to ESTA travel authorization validity periods will be published in the
Federal Register.
The ESTA Web site will be updated to reflect the specific ESTA travel authorization validity period for each VWP country.
(e)
New travel authorization required.
A new travel authorization is required if any of the following occur:
(1) The alien is issued a new passport;
(2) The alien changes his or her name;
(3) The alien changes his or her gender;
(4) The alien's country of citizenship changes; or
(5) The circumstances underlying the alien's previous responses to any of the ESTA application questions requiring a “yes” or “no” response (eligibility questions) have changed.
(f)
Limitations
—(1)
Current authorization period.
An authorization under ESTA is a positive determination that an alien is eligible, and grants the alien permission, to travel to the United States under the VWP and to apply for admission under the VWP during the period of time the travel authorization is valid. An authorization under ESTA is not a determination that the alien is admissible to the United States. A determination of admissibility is made only after an applicant for admission is inspected by a CBP Officer at a U.S. port of entry.
(2)
Not a determination of visa eligibility.
A determination under ESTA that an alien is not eligible to travel to the United States under the VWP is not a determination that the alien is ineligible for a visa to travel to the United States and does not preclude the alien from applying for a visa before a United States consular officer.
(3)
Judicial review.
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a determination under ESTA is not subject to judicial review pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 217(h)(3)(C)(iv).
(4)
Revocation.
A determination under ESTA that an alien is eligible to travel to the United States to apply for admission under the VWP may be revoked at the discretion of the Secretary.
(g) [Reserved]
(h)
Fee.
(1) Through September 30, 2027, the fee for an approved ESTA is $21, which is the sum of two amounts: A $17 travel promotion fee to fund the Corporation for Travel Promotion and a $4 operational fee to at least ensure recovery of the full costs of providing and administering the system. In the
event the ESTA application is denied, the fee is $4 to cover the operational costs.
(2) Beginning October 1, 2027, the fee for using ESTA is an operational fee of $4 to at least ensure recovery of the full costs of providing and administering the system.
[73 FR 32452, June 9, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 47708, Aug. 9, 2010; 80 FR 32294, June 8, 2015; 87 FR 18980, Apr. 1, 2022; 87 FR 30773, May 20, 2022]
§ 217.6
Carrier agreements.
(a)
General.
The carrier agreements referred to in section 217(e) of the Act shall be made by the Commissioner on behalf of the Attorney General and shall be on Form I-775, Visa Waiver Pilot Program Agreement.
(b)
Termination of agreements.
The Commissioner, on behalf of the Attorney General, may terminate any carrier agreement under this part, with 5 days notice to a carrier, for the carrier's failure to meet the terms of such agreement. As a matter of discretion, the Commissioner may notify a carrier of the existence of a basis for termination of a carrier agreement under this part and allow the carrier a period not to exceed 15 days within which the carrier may bring itself into compliance with the terms of the carrier agreement. The agreement shall be subject to cancellation by either party for any reason upon 15 days' written notice to the other party.
[62 FR 10352, Mar. 6, 1997]
§ 217.7
Electronic data transmission requirement.
(a) An alien who applies for admission under the provisions of section 217 of the Act after arriving via sea or air at a port of entry will not be admitted under the Visa Waiver Program unless an appropriate official of the carrier transporting the alien electronically transmitted to Customs and Border Protection (CBP) passenger arrival manifest data relative to that alien passenger in accordance with 19 CFR 4.7b or 19 CFR 122.49a. Upon departure from the United States by sea or air of an alien admitted under the Visa Waiver Program, an appropriate official of the transporting carrier must electronically transmit to CBP departure manifest data relative to that alien passenger in accordance with 19 CFR 4.64 and 19 CFR 122.75a.
(b) If a carrier fails to submit the required electronic arrival or departure manifests specified in paragraph (a) of this section, CBP will evaluate the carrier's compliance with immigration requirements as a whole. CBP will inform the carrier of any noncompliance and then may revoke any contract agreements between CBP and the carrier. The carrier may also be subject to fines for failure to comply with manifest requirements or other statutory provisions. CBP will also review each Visa Waiver Program applicant who applies for admission and, on a case-by-case basis, may authorize a waiver under current CBP policy and guidelines or deny the applicant admission into the United States.
[70 FR 17848, Apr. 7, 2005]
Pt. 221

# PART 221—ADMISSION OF VISITORS OR STUDENTS

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1101, 1103, 1201; 8 CFR part 2.
§ 221.1
Admission under bond.
The district director having jurisdiction over the intended place of residence of an alien may accept a bond on behalf of an alien defined in section 101(a)(15)(B) or (F) of the Act prior to the issuance of a visa to the alien or upon receipt of a request directly from a U.S. consular officer or upon presentation by an interested person of a notification from the consular officer requiring such a bond; such a bond also may be accepted by the district director with jurisdiction over the port of entry or preinspection station where inspection of the alien takes place. Upon acceptance of such a bond, the district director shall notify the United States consular officer who requested the bond, giving the date and place of acceptance and amount of the bond. All bonds given as a condition of admission of an alien under section 221(g) of the Act shall be executed on Form I-352. For procedures relating to bond riders, acceptable sureties, cancellation, or
breaching of bonds, see § 103.6 of this chapter.
[32 FR 9626, July 4, 1967, as amended at 34 FR 1008, Jan. 23, 1969; 62 FR 10352, Mar. 6, 1997]
Pt. 223

# PART 223—REENTRY PERMITS, REFUGEE TRAVEL DOCUMENTS, AND ADVANCE PAROLE DOCUMENTS
Sec.
223.1
Purpose of documents.
223.2
Application and processing.
223.3
Validity and effect on admissibility.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1181, 1182, 1186a, 1203, 1225, 1226, 1227, 1251; Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees, November 1, 1968, 19 U.S.T. 6223 (TIAS) 6577; 8 CFR part 2.

# Source:
59 FR 1464, Jan. 11, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 223.1
Purpose of documents.
(a)
Reentry permit.
A reentry permit allows a permanent resident to apply for admission to the United States upon return from abroad during the period of the permit's validity without the necessity of obtaining a returning resident visa.
(b)
Refugee travel document.
A refugee travel document is issued pursuant to this part and article 28 of the United Nations Convention of July 29, 1951, for the purpose of travel. Except as provided in § 223.3(d)(2)(i), a person who holds refugee status pursuant to section 207 of the Act, or asylum status pursuant to section 208 of the Act, must have a refugee travel document to return to the United States after temporary travel abroad unless he or she is in possession of a valid advance parole document.
[59 FR 1464, Jan. 11, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 10352, Mar. 6, 1997]
§ 223.2
Application and processing.
(a)
Application.
An applicant must submit an application for a reentry permit, refugee travel document, or advance parole on the form designated by USCIS with the fee prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2 and in accordance with the form instructions.
(b)
Filing eligibility
—(1)
Reentry permit.
An applicant for a reentry permit must file such application while in the United States and in status as a lawful permanent resident or conditional permanent resident.
(2)
Refugee travel document.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, an applicant for a refugee travel document must submit the application while in the United States and in valid refugee status under section 207 of the Act, valid asylum status under section 208 of the Act or is a permanent resident who received such status as a direct result of his or her asylum or refugee status.
(ii)
Discretionary authority to accept a refugee travel document application from an alien not within the United States.
As a matter of discretion, the Service office with jurisdiction over a port-of-entry or pre-flight inspection location where the alien is seeking admission, or the overseas Service office where the alien is physically present, may accept and adjudicate an application for a refugee travel document from an alien who previously had been admitted to the United States as a refugee, or who previously had been granted asylum status in the United States, and who departed from the United States without having applied for such refugee travel document, provided the officer:
(A) Is satisfied that the alien did not intend to abandon his or her refugee or asylum status at the time of departure from the United States;
(B) The alien did not engage in any activities while outside the United States that would be inconsistent with continued refugee or asylum status; and
(C) The alien has been outside the United States for less than 1 year since his or her last departure.
(c)
Ineligibility
—(1)
Prior document still valid.
An application for a reentry permit or refugee travel document will be denied if the applicant was previously issued a reentry permit or refugee travel document which is still valid, unless it was returned to USCIS or it is demonstrated that it was lost.
(2)
Extended absences.
A reentry permit issued to a person who, since becoming a permanent resident or during the last five years, whichever is less, has been outside the United States for more than four years in the aggregate, shall be limited to a validity of one
year, except that a permit with a validity of two years may be issued to:
(i) A permanent resident described in 8 CFR 211.1(a)(6) or (a)(7);
(ii) A permanent resident employed by a public international organization of which the United States is a member by treaty or statute, and his or her permanent resident spouse and children; or
(iii) A permanent resident who is a professional athlete who regularly competes in the United States and worldwide.
(3)
Permanent resident entitled to nonimmigrant diplomatic or treaty status.
A permanent resident entitled to nonimmigrant status under section 101(a)(15)(A), (E), or (G) of the Act because of occupational status may only be issued a reentry permit if the applicant executes and submits with the application, or has previously executed and submitted, a written waiver as required by 8 CFR part 247.
(d)
Effect of travel before a decision is made.
Departure from the United States before a decision is made on an application for a reentry permit or refugee travel document will not affect the application.
(e)
Processing.
USCIS may approve or deny a request for a reentry permit or refugee travel document as an exercise of discretion. If it approves the application, USCIS will issue an appropriate document.
(f)
Effect on proceedings.
Issuance of a reentry permit or refugee travel document to a person in exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings shall not affect those proceedings.
(g)
Appeal.
Denial of an application for a reentry permit or refugee travel document may be appealed in accordance with 8 CFR 103.3.
[76 FR 53790, Aug. 29, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 46926, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 223.3
Validity and effect on admissibility.
(a)
Validity
—(1)
Reentry permit.
Except as provided in § 223.2(c)(2), a reentry permit issued to a permanent resident shall be valid for 2 years from the date of issuance. A reentry permit issued to a conditional permanent resident shall be valid for 2 years from the date of issuance, or to the date the conditional permanent resident must apply for removal of the conditions on his or her status, whichever comes first.
(2)
Refugee travel document.
A refugee travel document shall be valid for 1 year, or to the date the refugee or asylee status expires, whichever comes first.
(b)
Invalidation.
A document issued under this part is invalid if obtained through material false representation or concealment, or if the person is ordered excluded or deported. A refugee travel document is also invalid if the United Nations Convention of July 28, 1951, ceases to apply or does not apply to the person as provided in Article 1C, D, E, or F of the convention.
(c)
Extension.
A reentry permit or refugee travel document may not be extended.
(d)
Effect on admissibility
—(1)
Reentry permit.
A permanent resident or conditional permanent resident in possession of a valid reentry permit who is otherwise admissible shall not be deemed to have abandoned status based solely on the duration of an absence or absences while the permit is valid.
(2)
Refugee travel document
—(i)
Inspection and immigration status.
Upon arrival in the United States, an alien who presents a valid unexpired refugee travel document, or who has been allowed to file an application for a refugee travel document and this application has been approved under the procedure set forth in § 223.2(b)(2)(ii), shall be examined as to his or her admissibility under the Act. An alien shall be accorded the immigration status endorsed in his or her refugee travel document, or (in the case of an alien discussed in § 223.2(b)(2)(ii)) which will be endorsed in such document, unless he or she is no longer eligible for that status, or he or she applies for and is found eligible for some other immigration status.
(ii)
Inadmissibility.
If an alien who presents a valid unexpired refugee travel document appears to the examining immigration officer to be inadmissible, he or she shall be referred for proceedings under section 240 of the Act.
Section 235(c) of the Act shall not be applicable.
[59 FR 1464, Jan. 11, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 10353, Mar. 6, 1997]
Pt. 231

# PART 231—ARRIVAL AND DEPARTURE MANIFESTS
Sec.
231.1
Electronic manifest and I-94 requirement for passengers and crew onboard arriving vessels and aircraft.
231.2
Electronic manifest and I-94 requirement for passengers and crew onboard departing vessels and aircraft.
231.3
Exemptions for private vessels and aircraft.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1101, 1103, 1182, 1221, 1228, 1229; 8 CFR part 2.
§ 231.1
Electronic manifest and I-94 requirement for passengers and crew onboard arriving vessels and aircraft.
(a)
Electronic submission of manifests.
Provisions setting forth requirements applicable to commercial carriers regarding the electronic transmission of arrival manifests covering passengers and crew members under section 231 of the Act are set forth in 19 CFR 4.7b (passengers and crew members onboard vessels) and in 19 CFR 122.49a (passengers onboard aircraft) and 122.49b (crew members onboard aircraft).
(b)
Submission of Form I-94
—(1)
General requirement.
In addition to the electronic manifest transmission requirement specified in paragraph (a) of this section, and subject to the exception of paragraph (2) of this paragraph (b), the master or commanding officer, or authorized agent, owner or consignee, of each commercial vessel or aircraft arriving in the United States from any place outside the United States must present to a Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officer at the port of entry a properly completed Arrival/Departure Record, Form I-94 (see § 1.4), for each arriving passenger.
(2)
Exceptions.
The Form I-94 requirement of paragraph (1) of this paragraph (b) does not apply to United States citizens, lawful permanent residents of the United States, immigrants to the United States, or passengers in transit through the United States; nor does it apply to vessels or aircraft arriving directly from Canada on a trip originating in that country or arriving in the Virgin Islands of the United States directly from a trip originating in the British Virgin Islands.
(c)
Progressive clearance.
Inspection of arriving passengers may be deferred at the request of the carrier to an onward port of debarkation. However, verification of transmission of the electronic manifest referred to in paragraph (a) of this section must occur at the first port of arrival. Authorization for this progressive clearance may be granted by the Director, Field Operations, at the first port of arrival. When progressive clearance is requested, the carrier must present the Form I-92 referred to in paragraph (d) of this section in duplicate at the initial port of entry. The original Form I-92 will be processed at the initial port of entry, and the duplicate will be noted and returned to the carrier for presentation at the onward port of debarkation.
(d)
Aircraft/Vessel Report.
A properly completed Aircraft/Vessel Report, Form I-92, must be completed for each arriving aircraft and vessel that is transporting passengers. Submission of the Form I-92 to the CBP officer must be accomplished on the day of arrival.
[70 FR 17849, Apr. 7, 2005, as amended at 78 FR 18472, Mar. 27, 2013]
§ 231.2
Electronic manifest and I-94 requirement for passengers and crew onboard departing vessels and aircraft.
(a)
Electronic submission of manifests.
Provisions setting forth requirements applicable to commercial carriers regarding the electronic transmission of departure manifests covering passengers and crew members under section 231 of the Act are set forth in 19 CFR 4.64 (passengers and crew members onboard vessels) and in 19 CFR 122.75a (passengers onboard aircraft) and 122.75b (crew members onboard aircraft).
(b)
Submission of Form I-94
—(1)
General requirement.
In addition to the electronic manifest transmission requirement specified in paragraph (a) of this section, and subject to the exception of paragraph (2) of this paragraph (b), the
master or commanding officer, or authorized agent, owner, or consignee, of each commercial vessel or aircraft departing from the United States to any place outside the United States must present a properly completed departure portion of an Arrival/Departure Record, Form I-94 (see § 1.4), to the Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officer at the port of departure for each person on board. Whenever possible, the departure Form I-94 presented must be the same form given to the alien at the time of arrival in the United States. The carrier must endorse the I-94 with the departure information on the reverse of the form. Submission of the I-94 to the CBP officer must be accomplished within 48 hours of the departure, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. Failure to submit the departure I-94 within this period may be regarded as a failure to comply with section 231(g) of the Act, unless prior authorization for delayed delivery is obtained from CBP. A non-immigrant alien departing on an aircraft proceeding directly to Canada on a flight terminating in that country must surrender any Form I-94 in his/her possession to the airline agent at the port of departure.
(2)
Exceptions.
The form I-94 requirement of paragraph (1) of this paragraph (b) does not apply to United States citizens, lawful permanent residents of the United States, or passengers in transit through the United States; nor does it apply to a vessel or aircraft departing on a trip directly for and terminating in Canada or departing from the United States Virgin Islands directly to the British Virgin Islands on a trip terminating there.
(c)
Aircraft/Vessel Report.
A properly completed Aircraft/Vessel Report, Form I-92, must be completed for each departing aircraft and vessel that is transporting passengers. Submission of the Form I-92 to the CBP officer must be accomplished on the day of departure.
[70 FR 17849, Apr. 7, 2005, as amended at 78 FR 18472, Mar. 27, 2013]
§ 231.3
Exemptions for private vessels and aircraft.
The provision of this part relating to the presentation of arrival and departure manifests shall not apply to a private vessel or private aircraft. Private aircraft as defined in 19 CFR 122.1(h) are subject to the arrival and departure manifest presentation requirements set forth in 19 CFR 122.22.
[73 FR 68309, Nov. 18, 2008]
Pt. 232

# PART 232—DETENTION OF ALIENS FOR PHYSICAL AND MENTAL EXAMINATION
Sec.
232.1
General.
232.2
Examination in the United States of alien applicants for benefits under the immigration laws and other aliens.
232.3
Arriving aliens.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1222, 1224, 1252; 8 CFR part 2.
§ 232.1
General.
The manner in which the physical and mental examination of aliens shall be conducted is set forth in 42 CFR part 34.
[38 FR 33061, Nov. 30, 1973, as amended at 38 FR 34315, Dec. 13, 1973. Redesignated at 62 FR 10353, Mar. 6, 1997]
§ 232.2
Examination in the United States of alien applicants for benefits under the immigration laws and other aliens.
(a)
General.
When a medical examination is required of an alien who files an application for status as a permanent resident under section 245 of the Act or part 245 of this chapter, it shall be made by a selected civil surgeon. Such examination shall be performed in accordance with 42 CFR part 34 and any additional instructions and guidelines as may be considered necessary by the U.S. Public Health Service. In any other case in which the Service requests a medical examination of an alien, the examination shall be made by a medical officer of the U.S. Public Health Service, or by a civil surgeon if a medical officer of the U.S. Public Health Service is not located within a reasonable distance or is otherwise not available.
(b)
Selection of civil surgeons.
When a civil surgeon is to perform the examination, he shall be selected by the district director having jurisdiction over the area of the alien's residence. The
district director shall select as many civil surgeons, including clinics and local, county and state health departments employing qualified civil surgeons, as he determines to be necessary to serve the needs of the Service in a locality under his jurisdiction. Each civil surgeon selected shall be a licensed physician with no less than 4 years' professional experience. Under usual circumstances physicians will be required to meet the 4 year professional experience criteria. However, at the district director's discretion other physicians with less experience can be designated to address unusual or unforeseen situations as the need arises. Officers of local health departments and medical societies may be consulted to obtain the names of competent surgeons and clinics willing to make the examinations. An understanding shall be reached with respect to the fee which the surgeon or clinic will charge for the examination. The alien shall pay the fee agreed upon directly to the surgeon making the examination.
(c)
Civil surgeon reports
—(1)
Applicants for status of permanent resident.
(i) When an applicant for status as a permanent resident is found upon examination to be free of any defect, disease, or disability listed in section 212(a) of the Act, the civil surgeon shall endorse Form I-486A, Medical Examination and Immigration Interview, and forward it with the X-ray and other pertinent laboratory reports to the immigration office from which the alien was referred, The immigration office may return the X-ray and laboratory reports to the alien. If the applicant is found to be afflicted with a defect, disease or disability listed under section 212(a) of the Act, the civil surgeon shall complete Form OF-157 in duplicate, and forward it with Form I-486A, X-ray, and other pertinent laboratory reports to the immigration office from which the alien was referred.
(ii) If the applicant is found to be afflicted with active tuberculosis and a waiver is granted under section 212(g) of the Act, the immigration office will forward a copy of the completed Form I-601 (Application for Waiver of Grounds of Excludability) and a copy of the Form OF-157 to the Director, Division of Quarantine, Center for Prevention Services, Centers for Disease Control, Atlanta, GA 30333.
(iii) If an alien who if found to be mentally retarded or to have had one or more previous attacks of insanity, applies for a waiver of excludability under section 212(g) of the Act, the immigration office will submit to the Director, Division of Quarantine, Center for Prevention Services, Centers for Disease Control, Atlanta, GA 30333, the completed Form I-601, including a copy of the medical report specified in the instructions attached to that form, and a copy of Form OF-157. This official shall review the medical report and advise the Service whether it is acceptable, in accordance with § 212.7(b)(4)(ii) of this chapter.
(iv) In any other case where the applicant has been found to be afflicted with active or inactive tuberculosis or an infectious or noninfectious leprosy condition, the immigration office will forward a copy of Form OF-157 with the applicant's address endorsed on the reverse to the Director, Division of Quarantine, Center for Prevention Services, Centers for Disease Control, Atlanta, GA 30333.
(2)
Other aliens.
The results of the examination of an alien who is not an applicant for status as a permanent resident shall be entered on Form I-141, Medical Certificate, in duplicate. This form shall be returned to the Service office by which the alien was referred.
(d)
U.S. Public Health Service hospital and outpatient clinic reports.
When an applicant for a benefit under the immigration laws, other than an applicant for status as a permanent resident, is examined by a medical officer of the U.S. Public Health Service, the results of the examination shall be entered on Form I-141, Medical Certificate, in duplicate. The form shall be returned to the Service office by which the alien was referred.
[38 FR 33061, Nov. 30, 1973, as amended at 48 FR 30610, July 5, 1983; 52 FR 16194, May 1, 1987. Redesignated at 62 FR 10353, Mar. 6, 1997]
§ 232.3
Arriving aliens.
When a district director has reasonable grounds for believing that persons arriving in the United States should be
detained for reasons specified in section 232 of the Act, he or she shall, after consultation with the United States Public Health Service at the port-of-entry, notify the master or agent of the arriving vessel or aircraft of his or her intention to effect such detention by serving on the master or agent Form I-259 in accordance with § 235.3(a) of this chapter.
[62 FR 10353, Mar. 6, 1997]
Pt. 233

# PART 233—CONTRACTS WITH TRANSPORTATION LINES
Sec.
233.1
Contracts.
233.2
Transportation lines bringing aliens to the United States from or through foreign contiguous territory or adjacent islands.
233.3
[Reserved]
233.4
Preinspection outside the United States.
233.5
Aliens entering Guam pursuant to section 14 of Public Law 99-396, “Omnibus Territories Act”.
233.6
Aliens entering Guam or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands pursuant to Title VII of Public Law 110-229, “Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008.”

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1101, 1103, 1182, 1221, 1228, 1229, 8 CFR part 2.

# Source:
Redesignated at 62 FR 10353, Mar. 6, 1997.
§ 233.1
Contracts.
The contracts with transportation lines referred to in section 233(c) of the Act may be entered into by the Executive Associate Commissioner for Programs, or by an immigration officer designated by the Executive Associate Commissioner for Programs on behalf of the government and shall be documented on Form I-420. The contracts with transportation lines referred to in section 233(a) of the Act shall be made by the Commissioner on behalf of the government and shall be documented on Form I-426. The contracts with transportation lines desiring their passengers to be preinspected at places outside the United States shall be made by the Commissioner on behalf of the government and shall be documented on Form I-425; except that contracts for irregularly operated charter flights may be entered into by the Associate Commissioner for Examinations or an immigration officer designated by the Executive Associate Commissioner for Programs and having jurisdiction over the location where the inspection will take place.
[62 FR 10353, Mar. 6, 1997]
§ 233.2
Transportation lines bringing aliens to the United States from or through foreign contiguous territory or adjacent islands.
Form I-420 shall be signed in duplicate and forwarded to the Headquarters Office of Inspections. After acceptance, each Regional Office of Inspections, the district office and the carrier will be furnished with one copy of the agreement. The transmittal letter to the Headquarters Office of Inspections shall indicate whether the signatory to the agreement is a subsidiary or affiliate of a line which has already signed a similar agreement. Correspondence regarding ancillary contracts for office space and other facilities to be furnished by transportation lines at Service stations in Canada shall be similarly handled.
[57 FR 59907, Dec. 17, 1992]
§ 233.3
[Reserved]
§ 233.4
Preinspection outside the United States.
(a)
Form I-425 agreements.
A transportation line bringing applicants for admission to the United States through preinspection sites outside the United States shall enter into an agreement on Form I-425. Such an agreement shall be negotiated directly by the Service's Headquarters Office of Inspections and the head office of the transportation line.
(b)
Signatory lines.
A list of transportation lines with currently valid transportation agreements on Form I-425 is maintained by the Service's Headquarters Office of Inspections and is available upon written request.
[62 FR 10353, Mar. 6, 1997]
§ 233.5
Aliens entering Guam pursuant to section 14 of Public Law 99-396, “Omnibus Territories Act.”
A transportation line bringing aliens to Guam under the visa waiver provisions of § 212.1(e) of this chapter shall enter into an agreement on Form I-760. Such agreements shall be negotiated directly by the Service's Headquarters and head offices of the transportation lines.
[62 FR 10353, Mar. 6, 1997]
§ 233.6
Aliens entering Guam or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands pursuant to Title VII of Public Law 110-229, “Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008.”
A transportation line bringing aliens to Guam or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands under the visa waiver provisions of § 212.1(q) of this chapter or to the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands under the visa waiver provisions of § 212.1(r) of this chapter must enter into an agreement on CBP Form I-760. Such agreements must be negotiated directly by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and head offices of the transportation lines.
[89 FR 3331, Jan. 18, 2024]
Pt. 234

# PART 234—DESIGNATION OF PORTS OF ENTRY FOR ALIENS ARRIVING BY CIVIL AIRCRAFT
Sec.
234.1
Definitions.
234.2
Landing requirements.
234.3
Aircraft; how considered.
234.4
International airports for entry of aliens.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1221, 1229; 8 CFR part 2.

# Source:
Redesignated at 62 FR 10353, Mar. 6, 1997.
§ 234.1
Definitions.
(a)
Scheduled Airline.
This term means any individual, partnership, corporation, or association engaged in air transportation upon regular schedules to, over, or away from the United States, or from one place to another in the United States, and holding a Foreign Air Carrier permit or a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity issued pursuant to the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (72 Stat. 731).
(b)
International Airport.
An international airport is one designated by the Commissioner for the entry of aliens with the prior approval of the Secretary of Commerce, Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
(c)
Landing Rights Airport.
An airport, although not designated as international, at which permission to land has been granted to aircraft operated by scheduled airlines by the Commissioner of Customs.
[49 FR 50018, Dec. 26, 1984]
§ 234.2
Landing requirements.
(a)
Place of landing.
Aircraft carrying passengers or crew required to be inspected under the Act must land at the international air ports of entry enumerated in part 100 of this chapter unless permission to land elsewhere is first obtained from the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) in the case of aircraft operated by scheduled airlines, and in all other cases from the port director of CBP or other CBP officer having jurisdiction over the CBP port of entry nearest the intended place of landing.
(b)
Advance notice of arrival.
Aircraft carrying passengers or crew required to be inspected under the Immigration and Nationality Act, except aircraft of a scheduled airline arriving in accordance with the regular schedule filed with the Service at the place of landing, shall furnish notice of the intended flight to the immigration officer at or nearest the intended place of landing, or shall furnish similar notice to the district director of Customs or other Customs officer in charge at such place. Such notice shall specify the type of aircraft, the registration marks thereon, the name of the aircraft commander, the place of last departure, the airport of entry, or other place at which landing has been authorized, number of alien passengers, number of citizen passengers, and the estimated time of arrival. The notice shall be sent in sufficient time to enable the officers designated to inspect the aircraft to reach the airport of entry or such
other place of landing prior to the arrival of the aircraft.
(c)
Permission to discharge or depart.
Aircraft carrying passengers or crew required to be inspected under the Immigration and Nationality Act shall not discharge or permit to depart any passenger or crewman without permission from an immigration officer.
(d)
Emergency or forced landing.
Should any aircraft carrying passengers or crew required to be inspected under the Immigration and Nationality Act make a forced landing in the United States, the commanding officer or person in command shall not allow any passenger or crewman thereon to depart from the landing place without permission of an immigration officer, unless such departure is necessary for purposes of safety or the preservation of life or property. As soon as practicable, the commanding officer or person in command, or the owner of the aircraft, shall communicate with the nearest immigration officer and make a full report of the circumstances of the flight and of the emergency or forced landing.
[22 FR 9795, Dec. 6, 1957, as amended at 32 FR 9631, July 4, 1967; 45 FR 29243, May 1, 1980; 49 FR 50019, Dec. 26, 1984; 54 FR 102, Jan. 4, 1989; 54 FR 1050, Jan. 11, 1989; 65 FR 58903, Oct. 3, 2000; 76 FR 5060, Jan. 28, 2011; 81 FR 14953, Mar. 21, 2016]
§ 234.3
Aircraft; how considered.
Except as otherwise specifically provided in the Immigration and Nationality Act and this chapter, aircraft arriving in or departing from the continental United States or Alaska directly from or to foreign contiguous territory or the French island of St. Pierre or Miquelon shall be regarded for the purposes of the Immigration and Nationality Act and this chapter as other transportation lines or companies arriving or departing over the land borders of the United States.
[22 FR 9795, Dec. 6, 1957. Redesignated and amended at 62 FR 10353, Mar. 6, 1997]
§ 234.4
International airports for entry of aliens.
International airports for the entry of aliens shall be those airports designated as such by the Commissioner. An application for designation of an airport as an international airport for the entry of aliens shall be made to the Commissioner and shall state whether the airport: (a) Has been approved by the Secretary of Commerce as a properly equipped airport, (b) has been designated by the Secretary of the Treasury as a port of entry for aircraft arriving in the United States from any place outside thereof and for the merchandise carried thereon, and (c) has been designated by the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare as a place for quarantine inspection. An airport shall not be so designated by the Commissioner without such prior approval and designation, and unless it appears to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that conditions render such designation necessary or advisable, and unless adequate facilities have been or will be provided at such airport without cost to the Federal Government for the proper inspection and disposition of aliens, including office space and such temporary detention quarters as may be found necessary. The designation of an airport as an international airport for the entry of aliens may be withdrawn whenever, in the judgment of the Commissioner, there appears just cause for such action.
[22 FR 9795, Dec. 6, 1957]
Pt. 235

# PART 235—INSPECTION OF PERSONS APPLYING FOR ADMISSION
Sec.
235.1
Scope of examination.
235.2
Parole for deferred inspection.
235.3
Inadmissible aliens and expedited removal.
235.4
Withdrawal of application for admission.
235.5
Preinspection.
235.6
Referral to immigration judge.
235.7
Automated inspection services (PORTPASS).
235.8
Inadmissibility on security and related grounds.
235.9
Northern Marianas identification card.
235.10
U.S. Citizen Identification Card.
235.11
Admission of conditional permanent residents.
235.12
Global Entry program.
235.13
U.S. Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Travel Card Program.
235.14
SENTRI program.
235.15
Inadmissible aliens and expedited removal during emergency border circumstances.

# Authority:
6 U.S.C. 218 and note; 8 U.S.C. 1101 and note, 1103, 1158, 1182, 1183, 1185 (pursuant to E.O. 13323, 69 FR 241, 3 CFR, 2004 Comp., p.278), 1185 note, 1201, 1224, 1225, 1226, 1228, 1365a note, 1365b, 1379, 1731-32; 48 U.S.C 1806 and note; Pub. L. 115-218.
§ 235.1
Scope of examination.
(a)
General.
Application to lawfully enter the United States shall be made in person to an immigration officer at a U.S. port-of-entry when the port is open for inspection, or as otherwise designated in this section.
(b)
U.S. Citizens.
A person claiming U.S. citizenship must establish that fact to the examining officer's satisfaction and must present a U.S. passport or alternative documentation as required by 22 CFR part 53. If such applicant for admission fails to satisfy the examining immigration officer that he or she is a U.S. citizen, he or she shall thereafter be inspected as an alien. A U.S. citizen must present a valid unexpired U.S. passport book upon entering the United States, unless he or she presents one of the following documents:
(1)
Passport card.
A U.S. citizen who possesses a valid unexpired United States passport card, as defined in 22 CFR 53.1, may present the passport card when entering the United States from contiguous territory or adjacent islands at land or sea ports-of-entry.
(2)
Merchant Mariner Document.
A U.S. citizen who holds a valid Merchant Mariner Document (MMD) issued by the U.S. Coast Guard may present an unexpired MMD used in conjunction with official maritime business when entering the United States.
(3)
Military identification.
Any U.S. citizen member of the U.S. Armed Forces who is in the uniform of, or bears documents identifying him or her as a member of, such Armed Forces, and who is coming to or departing from the United States under official orders or permit of such Armed Forces, may present a military identification card and the official orders when entering the United States.
(4)
Trusted traveler programs.
A U.S. citizen who travels as a participant in the NEXUS, FAST, or SENTRI programs may present a valid NEXUS program card when using a NEXUS Air kiosk or a valid NEXUS, FAST, or SENTRI card at a land or sea port-of-entry prior to entering the United States from contiguous territory or adjacent islands. A U.S. citizen who enters the United States by pleasure vessel from Canada using the remote inspection system may present a NEXUS program card.
(5)
Certain cruise ship passengers.
A U.S. citizen traveling entirely within the Western Hemisphere is permitted to present a government-issued photo identification document in combination with either an original or a copy of his or her birth certificate, a Consular Report of Birth Abroad issued by the Department of State, or a Certificate of Naturalization issued by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services for entering the United States when the United States citizen:
(i) Boards a cruise ship at a port or place within the United States; and,
(ii) Returns on the return voyage of the same cruise ship to the same United States port or place from where he or she originally departed.
On such cruises, U.S. Citizens under the age of 16 may present an original or a copy of a birth certificate, a Consular Report of Birth Abroad, or a Certificate of Naturalization issued by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.
(6)
Native American holders of an American Indian card.
A Native American holder of a Form I-872 American Indian Card arriving from contiguous territory or adjacent islands may present the Form I-872 card prior to entering the United States at a land or sea port-of-entry.
(7)
Native American holders of tribal documents.
A U.S. citizen holder of a tribal document issued by a United States qualifying tribal entity or group of United States qualifying tribal entities, as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, who is arriving from contiguous territory or adjacent islands may present the tribal document prior to entering the United States at a land or sea port-of-entry.
(8)
Children.
A child who is a United States citizen entering the United States from contiguous territory at a sea or land ports-of-entry may present
certain other documents, if the arrival falls under subsection (i) or (ii).
(i)
Children under Age 16.
A U.S. citizen who is under the age of 16 is permitted to present either an original or a copy of his or her birth certificate, a Consular Report of Birth Abroad issued by the Department of State, or a Certificate of Naturalization issued by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services when entering the United States from contiguous territory at land or sea ports-of-entry.
(ii)
Groups of Children under Age 19.
A U.S. citizen, who is under age 19 and is traveling with a public or private school group, religious group, social or cultural organization, or team associated with a youth sport organization is permitted to present either an original or a copy of his or her birth certificate, a Consular Report of Birth Abroad issued by the Department of State, or a Certificate of Naturalization issued by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services when arriving from contiguous territory at land or sea ports-of-entry, when the group, organization, or team is under the supervision of an adult affiliated with the group, organization, or team and when the child has parental or legal guardian consent to travel. For purposes of this paragraph, an adult is considered to be a person age 19 or older. The following requirements will apply:
(A) The group or organization must provide to CBP upon crossing the border, on organizational letterhead:
(
1
) The name of the group, organization or team, and the name of the supervising adult;
(
2
) A list of the children on the trip;
(
3
) For each child, the primary address, primary phone number, date of birth, place of birth, and name of a parent or legal guardian.
(B) The adult leading the group, organization, or team must demonstrate parental or legal guardian consent by certifying in the writing submitted in paragraph (b)(8)(ii)(A) of this section that he or she has obtained for each child the consent of at least one parent or legal guardian.
(C) The inspection procedure described in this paragraph is limited to members of the group, organization, or team who are under age 19. Other members of the group, organization, or team must comply with other applicable document and/or inspection requirements found in this part.
(c)
Alien members of United States Armed Forces and members of a force of a NATO country.
Any alien member of the United States Armed Forces who is in the uniform of, or bears documents identifying him or her as a member of, such Armed Forces, and who is coming to or departing from the United States under official orders or permit of such Armed Forces is not subject to the removal provisions of the Act. A member of the force of a NATO country signatory to Article III of the Status of Forces Agreement seeking to enter the United States under official orders is exempt from the control provision of the Act. Any alien who is a member of either of the foregoing classes may, upon request, be inspected and his or her entry as an alien may be recorded. If the alien does not appear to the examining immigration officer to be clearly and beyond a doubt entitled to enter the United States under the provisions of the Act, the alien shall be so informed and his or her entry shall not be recorded.
(d)
Enhanced Driver's License Projects; alternative requirements.
Upon the designation by the Secretary of Homeland Security of an enhanced driver's license as an acceptable document to denote identity and citizenship for purposes of entering the United States, U.S. and Canadian citizens may be permitted to present these documents in lieu of a passport upon entering or seeking admission to the United States according to the terms of the agreements entered between the Secretary of Homeland Security and the entity. The Secretary of Homeland Security will announce, by publication of a notice in the
Federal Register,
documents designated under this paragraph. A list of the documents designated under this paragraph will also be made available to the public.
(e)
Native American Tribal Cards; alternative requirements.
Upon the designation by the Secretary of Homeland Security of a United States qualifying tribal entity document as an acceptable document to denote identity and citizenship for purposes of entering the
United States, Native Americans may be permitted to present tribal cards upon entering or seeking admission to the United States according to the terms of the voluntary agreement entered between the Secretary of Homeland Security and the tribe. The Secretary of Homeland Security will announce, by publication of a notice in the
Federal Register,
documents designated under this paragraph. A list of the documents designated under this paragraph will also be made available to the public.
(f)
Alien applicants for admission.
(1) Each alien seeking admission at a United States port-of-entry must present whatever documents are required and must establish to the satisfaction of the inspecting officer that the alien is not subject to removal under the immigration laws, Executive Orders, or Presidential Proclamations, and is entitled, under all of the applicable provisions of the immigration laws and this chapter, to enter the United States.
(i) A person claiming to have been lawfully admitted for permanent residence must establish that fact to the satisfaction of the inspecting officer and must present proper documents in accordance with § 211.1 of this chapter.
(ii) The Secretary of Homeland Security or his designee may require any alien, other than aliens exempted under paragraph (iv) of this section or Canadian citizens under section 101(a)(15)(B) of the Act who are not otherwise required to present a visa or be issued Form I-94 (see § 1.4) or Form I-95 for admission or parole into the United States, to provide fingerprints, photograph(s) or other specified biometric identifiers, documentation of his or her immigration status in the United States, and such other evidence as may be requested to determine the alien's identity and whether he or she has properly maintained his or her status while in the United States and/or whether he or she is admissible. The failure of an alien at the time of inspection to comply with any requirement to provide biometric identifiers may result in a determination that the alien is inadmissible under section 212(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act or any other law.
(iii) Aliens who are required under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) to provide biometric identifier(s) at inspection may also be subject to the departure requirements for biometrics contained in § 215.8 of this chapter, unless otherwise exempted.
(iv) The requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(ii) shall not apply to:
(A) Aliens younger than 14 or older than 79 on date of admission;
(B) Aliens admitted on A-1, A-2, C-3 (except for attendants, servants, or personal employees of accredited officials), G-1, G-2, G-3, G-4, NATO-1, NATO-2, NATO-3, NATO-4, NATO-5, or NATO-6 visas, and certain Taiwan officials who hold E-1 visas and members of their immediate families who hold E-1 visas unless the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security jointly determine that a class of such aliens should be subject to the requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(ii);
(C) Classes of aliens to whom the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Secretary of State jointly determine it shall not apply; or
(D) An individual alien to whom the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of State, or the Director of Central Intelligence determines it shall not apply.
(2) An alien present in the United States who has not been admitted or paroled or an alien who seeks entry at other than an open, designated port-of-entry, except as otherwise permitted in this section, is subject to the provisions of section 212(a) of the Act and to removal under section 235(b) or 240 of the Act.
(3) An alien who is brought to the United States, whether or not to a designated port-of-entry and regardless of the means of transportation, after having been interdicted in international or United States waters, is considered an applicant for admission and shall be examined under section 235(b) of the Act.
(4) An alien stowaway is not an applicant for admission and may not be admitted to the United States. A stowaway shall be removed from the United States under section 235(a)(2) of the Act. The provisions of section 240 of the Act are not applicable to stowaways, nor is the stowaway entitled to
further hearing or review of the removal, except that an alien stowaway who indicates an intention to apply for asylum, or expresses a fear of persecution, a fear of torture, or a fear of return to the country of proposed removal shall be referred to an asylum officer for a determination of credible fear of persecution or torture in accordance with section 235(b)(1)(B) of the Act and § 208.30 of this chapter. An alien stowaway who is determined to have a credible fear of persecution or torture shall have his or her asylum application adjudicated in accordance with § 208.2(b)(2) of this chapter.
(g)
U.S. citizens, lawful permanent residents of the United States, and other aliens, entering the United States along the northern border, other than at a port-of-entry.
A citizen of Canada or a permanent resident of Canada who is a national of a country listed in § 217.2(a) of this chapter may, if in possession of a valid, unexpired, Canadian Border Boat Landing Permit(Form I-68) or evidence of enrollment in any other Service Alternative Inspections program (e.g., the Immigration and Naturalization Service Passenger Accelerated Service System (INSPASS) or the Port Passenger Accelerated Service System (PORTPASS)), enter the United States by means of a pleasure craft along the northern border of the United States from time-to-time without further inspection. No persons other than those described in this paragraph may participate in this program. Permanent residents of Canada who are nationals of a designated Visa Waiver Program country listed in § 217.2(a) of this chapter must be in possession of a valid, unexpired passport issued by his or her country of nationality, and an unexpired multiple entry Form I-94W, Nonimmigrant Visa Waiver Arrival/Departure Form, or an unexpired passport, valid unexpired United States visa and I-94 Arrival/Departure Form. When an entry to the United States is made by a person who is a Canadian citizen or a permanent resident of Canada who is a national of a designated Visa Waiver Program country listed in § 217.2(a) of this chapter, entry may be made under this program only for a purpose as described in section 101(a)(15)(B)(ii) of the Act as a visitor for pleasure. Persons seeking to enter the United States for any other purpose must do so at a port-of-entry staffed by immigration inspectors. Persons aboard a vessel which has crossed the international boundary between the United States and Canada and who do not intend to land in the United States, other than at a staffed port-of-entry, are not required to be in possession of Form I-68, Canadian Border Boat Landing Permit, or evidence of enrollment in an Alternative Inspections program merely because they have crossed the international boundary. However, the Service retains the right to conduct inspections or examinations of all persons applying for admission or readmission to or seeking transit through the United States in accordance with the Act.
(1)
Application.
An eligible applicant may apply for a Canadian Border Boat Landing Permit by completing the Form I-68 in triplicate. Application forms will be made readily available through the Internet, from a Service office, or by mail. A family may apply on a single application. For the purposes of this paragraph, a family is defined as a husband, wife, unmarried children under the age of 21, and the parents of either husband or wife, who reside at the same address. In order for the I-68 application to be considered complete, it must be accompanied by the following:
(i) For each person included on the application, evidence of citizenship, and, if not a citizen of the United States or Canada, evidence of legal permanent resident status in either the United States or Canada. Evidence of residency must be submitted by all applicants. It is not required that all persons on the application be of the same nationality; however, they must all be individually eligible to participate in this program.
(ii) If multiple members of a family, as defined in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, are included on a single application, evidence of the familial relationship.
(iii) A fee as prescribed in 8 CFR 103.7(d)(3).
(iv) A copy of any previously approved Form I-68.
(v) A permanent resident of Canada who is a national of a Visa Waiver Program may apply for admission simultaneously with the Form I-68 application and thereby obtain a Form I-94 or I-94W.
(2)
Submission of Form I-68.
Except as indicated in this paragraph, Form I-68 shall be properly completed and submitted in person, along with the documentary evidence and the required fee as specified in 8 CFR 103.7(d)(3), to a United States immigration officer at a Canadian border Port-of-Entry located within the district having jurisdiction over the applicant's residence or intended place of landing. Persons previously granted Form I-68 approval may apply by mail to the issuing Service office for renewal if a copy of the previous Form I-68 is included in the application. At the discretion of the district director concerned, any applicant for renewal of Form I-68 may be required to appear for an interview in person if the applicant does not appear to be clearly eligible for renewal.
(3)
Denial of Form I-68.
If the applicant has committed a violation of any immigration or customs regulation or, in the case of an alien, is inadmissible to the United States, approval of the Form I-68 shall be denied. However, if, in the exercise of discretion, the district director waives under section 212(d)(3) of the Act all applicable grounds of inadmissibility, the I-68 application may be approved for such non-citizens. If the Form I-68 application is denied, the applicant shall be given written notice of and the reasons for the denial by letter from the district director. There is no appeal from the denial of the Form I-68 application, but the denial is without prejudice to a subsequent application for this program or any other Service benefit, except that the applicant may not submit a subsequent Form I-68 application for 90 days after the date of the last denial.
(4)
Validity.
Form I-68 shall be valid for 1 year from the date of issuance, or until revoked or violated by the Service.
(5)
Conditions for participation in the I-68 program.
Upon being inspected and positively identified by an immigration officer and found admissible and eligible for participation in the I-68 program, a participant must agree to abide by the following conditions:
(i) Form I-68 may be used only when entering the United States by means of a vessel exclusively used for pleasure, including chartered vessels when such vessel has been chartered by an approved Form I-68 holder. When used by a person who is a not a citizen or a lawful permanent resident of the United States, admission shall be for a period not to exceed 72 hours to visit within 25 miles of the shore line along the northern border of the United States, including the shore line of Lake Michigan and Puget Sound.
(ii) Participants must be in possession of any authorization documents issued for participation in this program or another Service Alternative Inspections program (INSPASS or PORTPASS). Participants over the age of 15 years and who are not in possession of an INSPASS or PORTPASS enrollment card must also be in possession of a photographic identification document issued by a governmental agency. Participants who are permanent residents of Canada who are nationals of a Visa Waiver Program country listed in § 217.2(a) of this chapter must also be in possession of proper documentation as described in paragraph (e) of this section.
(iii) Participants may not import merchandise or transport controlled or restricted items while entering the United States under this program. The entry of any merchandise or goods must be in accordance with the laws and regulations of all Federal Inspection Services.
(iv) Participants must agree to random checks or inspections that may be conducted by the Service, at any time and at any location, to ensure compliance.
(v) Participants must abide by all Federal, state, and local laws regarding the importation of alcohol or agricultural products or the importation or possession of controlled substances as defined in section 101 of the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. 802).
(vi) Participants acknowledge that all devices, decals, cards, or other Federal Government supplied identification or technology used to identify or inspect persons or vessels seeking
entry via this program remain the property of the United States Government at all times, and must be surrendered upon request by a Border Patrol Agent or any other officer of a Federal Inspection Service.
(vii) The captain, charterer, master, or owner (if aboard) of each vessel bringing persons into the United States is responsible for determining that all persons aboard the vessel are in possession of a valid, unexpired Form I-68 or other evidence of participation in a Service Alternative Inspections program (INSPASS or PORTPASS) prior to entry into the territorial waters of the United States. If any person on board is not in possession of such evidence, the captain, charterer, master, or owner must transport such person to a staffed United States Port-of-Entry for an in-person immigration inspection.
(6)
Revocation.
The district director, the chief patrol agent, or their designated representatives may revoke the designation of any participant who violates any condition of this program, as contained in paragraph (e)(5) of this section, or who has violated any immigration law or regulation, or a law or regulation of the United States Customs Service or other Federal Inspection Service, has abandoned his or her residence in the United States or Canada, is inadmissible to the United States, or who is otherwise determined by an immigration officer to be ineligible for continued participation in this program. Such persons may be subject to other applicable sanctions, such as criminal and/or administrative prosecution or deportation, as well as possible seizure of goods and/or vessels. If permission to participate is revoked, a written request to the district director for restoration of permission to participate may be made. The district director will notify the person of his or her decision and the reasons therefore in writing.
(7)
Compliance checking.
Participation in this program does not relieve the holder from responsibility to comply with all other aspects of United States Immigration, Customs, or other Federal inspection service laws or regulations. To prevent abuse, the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service retains the right to conduct inspections or examinations of all persons applying for admission or readmission to or seeking transit through the United States in accordance with the Immigration and Nationality Act.
(h)
Form I-94, Arrival-Departure Record.
(1) Unless otherwise exempted, each arriving nonimmigrant who is admitted to the United States will be issued a Form I-94 as evidence of the terms of admission. For land border admission, a Form I-94 will be issued only upon payment of a fee, and will be considered issued for multiple entries unless specifically annotated for a limited number of entries. A Form I-94 issued at other than a land border port-of-entry, unless issued for multiple entries, must be surrendered upon departure from the United States in accordance with the instructions on the form. Form I-94 is not required by:
(i) Any nonimmigrant alien described in § 212.1(a) of this chapter and 22 CFR 41.33 who is admitted as a visitor for business or pleasure or admitted to proceed in direct transit through the United States;
(ii) Any nonimmigrant alien residing in the British Virgin Islands who was admitted only to the U.S. Virgin Islands as a visitor for business or pleasure under § 212.1(b) of this chapter;
(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(1)(v) of this section, any Mexican national admitted as a nonimmigrant visitor who is:
(A) Exempt from a visa and passport pursuant to § 212.1(c)(1) of this chapter and is admitted for a period not to exceed 30 days to visit within 25 miles of the border; or
(B) In possession of a valid visa and passport and is admitted for a period not to exceed 72 hours to visit within 25 miles of the border;
(iv) Bearers of Mexican diplomatic or official passports described in ­§ 212.1(c) of this chapter; or
(v) Any Mexican national admitted as a nonimmigrant visitor who is:
(A) Exempt from a visa and passport pursuant to § 212.1(c)(1) of this chapter and is admitted at the Mexican border POEs in the State of Arizona at Sasabe, Nogales, Mariposa, Naco or
Douglas to visit within the State of Arizona within 75 miles of the border for a period not to exceed 30 days; or
(B) In possession of a valid visa and passport and is admitted at the Mexican border POEs in the State of Arizona at Sasabe, Nogales, Mariposa, Naco or Douglas to visit within the State of Arizona within 75 miles of the border for a period not to exceed 72 hours; or
(C) Exempt from visa and passport pursuant to § 212.1(c)(1) of this chapter and is admitted for a period not to exceed 30 days to visit within the State of New Mexico within 55 miles of the border or the area south of and including Interstate Highway I-10, whichever is further north; or
(D) In possession of a valid visa and passport and is admitted for a period not to exceed 72 hours to visit within the State of New Mexico within 55 miles of the border or the area south of and including Interstate Highway I-10, whichever is further north.
(2)
Paroled aliens.
Any alien paroled into the United States under section 212(d)(5) of the Act, including any alien crewmember, shall be issued a completely executed Form I-94, endorsed with the parole stamp.
[62 FR 10353, Mar. 6, 1997]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 235.1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 235.2
Parole for deferred inspection.
(a) A district director may, in his or her discretion, defer the inspection of any vessel or aircraft, or of any alien, to another Service office or port-of-entry. Any alien coming to a United States port from a foreign port, from an outlying possession of the United States, from Guam, Puerto Rico, or the Virgin Islands of the United States, or from another port of the United States at which examination under this part was deferred, shall be regarded as an applicant for admission at that onward port.
(b) An examining immigration officer may defer further examination and refer the alien's case to the district director having jurisdiction over the place where the alien is seeking admission, or over the place of the alien's residence or destination in the United States, if the examining immigration officer has reason to believe that the alien can overcome a finding of inadmissibility by:
(1) Posting a bond under section 213 of the Act;
(2) Seeking and obtaining a waiver under section 211 or 212(d)(3) or (4) of the Act; or
(3) Presenting additional evidence of admissibility not available at the time and place of the initial examination.
(c) Such deferral shall be accomplished pursuant to the provisions of section 212(d)(5) of the Act for the period of time necessary to complete the deferred inspection.
(d) Refusal of a district director to authorize admission under section 213 of the Act, or to grant an application for the benefits of section 211 or section 212(d) (3) or (4) of the Act, shall be without prejudice to the renewal of such application or the authorizing of such admission by the immigration judge without additional fee.
(e) Whenever an alien on arrival is found or believed to be suffering from a disability that renders it impractical to proceed with the examination under the Act, the examination of such alien, members of his or her family concerning whose admissibility it is necessary to have such alien testify, and any accompanying aliens whose protection or guardianship will be required should such alien be found inadmissible shall be deferred for such time and under such conditions as the district director in whose district the port is located imposes.
[62 FR 10355, Mar. 6, 1997]
§ 235.3
Inadmissible aliens and expedited removal.
(a)
Detention prior to inspection.
All persons arriving at a port-of-entry in the United States by vessel or aircraft shall be detained aboard the vessel or at the airport of arrival by the owner, agent, master, commanding officer, person in charge, purser, or consignee of such vessel or aircraft until admitted or otherwise permitted to land by an officer of the Service. Notice or order to detain shall not be required. The owner, agent, master, commanding
officer, person in charge, purser, or consignee of such vessel or aircraft shall deliver every alien requiring examination to an immigration officer for inspection or to a medical officer for examination. The Service will not be liable for any expenses related to such detention or presentation or for any expenses of a passenger who has not been presented for inspection and for whom a determination has not been made concerning admissibility by a Service officer.
(b)
Expedited removal
—(1)
Applicability.
The expedited removal provisions shall apply to the following classes of aliens who are determined to be inadmissible under section 212(a)(6)(C) or (7) of the Act:
(i) Arriving aliens, as defined in 8 CFR 1.2;
(ii) As specifically designated by the Commissioner, aliens who arrive in, attempt to enter, or have entered the United States without having been admitted or paroled following inspection by an immigration officer at a designated port-of-entry, and who have not established to the satisfaction of the immigration officer that they have been physically present in the United States continuously for the 2-year period immediately prior to the date of determination of inadmissibility. The Commissioner shall have the sole discretion to apply the provisions of section 235(b)(1) of the Act, at any time, to any class of aliens described in this section. The Commissioner's designation shall become effective upon publication of a notice in the
Federal Register.
However, if the Commissioner determines, in the exercise of discretion, that the delay caused by publication would adversely affect the interests of the United States or the effective enforcement of the immigration laws, the Commissioner's designation shall become effective immediately upon issuance, and shall be published in the
Federal Register
as soon as practicable thereafter. When these provisions are in effect for aliens who enter without inspection, the burden of proof rests with the alien to affirmatively show that he or she has the required continuous physical presence in the United States. Any absence from the United States shall serve to break the period of continuous physical presence. An alien who was not inspected and admitted or paroled into the United States but who establishes that he or she has been continuously physically present in the United States for the 2-year period immediately prior to the date of determination of inadmissibility shall be detained in accordance with section 235(b)(2) of the Act for a proceeding under section 240 of the Act.
(2)
Determination of inadmissibility
—(i)
Record of proceeding.
An alien who is arriving in the United States, or other alien as designated pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, who is determined to be inadmissible under section 212(a)(6)(C) or 212(a)(7) of the Act (except an alien for whom documentary requirements are waived under § 211.1(b)(3) or § 212.1 of this chapter), shall be ordered removed from the United States in accordance with section 235(b)(1) of the Act. In every case in which the expedited removal provisions will be applied and before removing an alien from the United States pursuant to this section, the examining immigration officer shall create a record of the facts of the case and statements made by the alien. This shall be accomplished by means of a sworn statement using Form I-867AB, Record of Sworn Statement in Proceedings under Section 235(b)(1) of the Act. The examining immigration officer shall read (or have read) to the alien all information contained on Form I-867A. Following questioning and recording of the alien's statement regarding identity, alienage, and inadmissibility, the examining immigration officer shall record the alien's response to the questions contained on Form I-867B, and have the alien read (or have read to him or her) the statement, and the alien shall sign and initial each page of the statement and each correction. The examining immigration officer shall advise the alien of the charges against him or her on Form I-860, Notice and Order of Expedited Removal, and the alien shall be given an opportunity to respond to those charges in the sworn statement. After obtaining supervisory concurrence in accordance with paragraph (b)(7) of this section, the examining immigration official shall serve the alien
with Form I-860 and the alien shall sign the reverse of the form acknowledging receipt. Interpretative assistance shall be used if necessary to communicate with the alien.
(ii)
No entitlement to hearings and appeals.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, such alien is not entitled to a hearing before an immigration judge in proceedings conducted pursuant to section 240 of the Act, or to an appeal of the expedited removal order to the Board of Immigration Appeals.
(iii)
Detention and parole of alien in expedited removal.
An alien whose inadmissibility is being considered under this section or who has been ordered removed pursuant to this section shall be detained pending determination and removal. Parole of such alien shall only be considered in accordance with section 212(d)(5) of the Act and § 212.5(b) of this chapter. A grant of parole would be for the limited purpose of parole out of custody and cannot serve as an independent basis for employment authorization under § 274a.12(c)(11) of this chapter.
(3)
Additional charges of inadmissibility.
In the expedited removal process, the Service may not charge an alien with any additional grounds of inadmissibility other than section 212(a)(6)(C) or 212(a)(7) of the Act. If an alien appears to be inadmissible under other grounds contained in section 212(a) of the Act, and if the Service wishes to pursue such additional grounds of inadmissibility, the alien shall be detained and referred for a removal hearing before an immigration judge pursuant to sections 235(b)(2) and 240 of the Act for inquiry into all charges. Once the alien is in removal proceedings under section 240 of the Act, the Service is not precluded from lodging additional charges against the alien. Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude the Service from pursuing such additional grounds of inadmissibility against the alien in any subsequent attempt to reenter the United States, provided the additional grounds of inadmissibility still exist.
(4)
Claim of asylum or fear of persecution or torture.
If an alien subject to the expedited removal provisions indicates an intention to apply for asylum, or expresses a fear of persecution or torture, or a fear of return to his or her country, the inspecting officer shall not proceed further with removal of the alien until the alien has been referred for an interview by an asylum officer in accordance with 8 CFR 208.30. The examining immigration officer shall record sufficient information in the sworn statement to establish and record that the alien has indicated such intention, fear, or concern, and to establish the alien's inadmissibility.
(i)
Referral.
The referring officer shall provide the alien with a written disclosure on Form M-444, Information About Credible Fear Interview, describing:
(A) The purpose of the referral and description of the credible fear interview process;
(B) The right to consult with other persons prior to the interview and any review thereof at no expense to the United States Government;
(C) The right to request a review by an immigration judge of the asylum officer's credible fear determination; and
(D) The consequences of failure to establish a credible fear of persecution or torture.
(ii)
Detention pending credible fear interview.
Pending the credible fear determination by an asylum officer and any review of that determination by an immigration judge, the alien shall be detained. Parole of such alien shall only be considered in accordance with section 212(d)(5) of the Act and § 212.5(b) of this chapter. A grant of parole would be for the limited purpose of parole out of custody and cannot serve as an independent basis for employment authorization under § 274a.12(c)(11) of this chapter. Prior to the interview, the alien shall be given time to contact and consult with any person or persons of the alien's choosing. If the alien is detained, such consultation shall be made available in accordance with the policies and procedures of the detention facility where the alien is detained, shall be at no expense to the Government, and shall not unreasonably delay the process.
(5)
Claim to lawful permanent resident, refugee, or asylee status or U.S. citizenship
—(i)
Verification of status.
If an applicant for admission who is subject to expedited removal pursuant to section
235(b)(1) of the Act claims to have been lawfully admitted for permanent residence, admitted as a refugee under section 207 of the Act, granted asylum under section 208 of the Act, or claims to be a U.S. citizen, the immigration officer shall attempt to verify the alien's claim. Such verification shall include a check of all available Service data systems and any other means available to the officer. An alien whose claim to lawful permanent resident, refugee, asylee status, or U.S. citizen status cannot be verified will be advised of the penalties for perjury, and will be placed under oath or allowed to make a declaration as permitted under 28 U.S.C. 1746, concerning his or her lawful admission for permanent residence, admission as a refugee under section 207 of the Act, grant of asylum status under section 208 of the Act, or claim to U.S. citizenship. A written statement shall be taken from the alien in the alien's own language and handwriting, stating that he or she declares, certifies, verifies, or states that the claim is true and correct. The immigration officer shall issue an expedited order of removal under section 235(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act and refer the alien to the immigration judge for review of the order in accordance with paragraph (b)(5)(iv) of this section and § 235.6(a)(2)(ii). The person shall be detained pending review of the expedited removal order under this section. Parole of such person, in accordance with section 212(d)(5) of the Act, may be permitted only when the Attorney General determines, in the exercise of discretion, that parole is required to meet a medical emergency or is necessary for a legitimate law enforcement objective.
(ii)
Verified lawful permanent residents.
If the claim to lawful permanent resident status is verified, and such status has not been terminated in exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings, the examining immigration officer shall not order the alien removed pursuant to section 235(b)(1) of the Act. The examining immigration officer will determine in accordance with section 101(a)(13)(C) of the Act whether the alien is considered to be making an application for admission. If the alien is determined to be seeking admission and the alien is otherwise admissible, except that he or she is not in possession of the required documentation, a discretionary waiver of documentary requirements may be considered in accordance with section 211(b) of the Act and § 211.1(b)(3) of this chapter or the alien's inspection may be deferred to an onward office for presentation of the required documents. If the alien appears to be inadmissible, the immigration officer may initiate removal proceedings against the alien under section 240 of the Act.
(iii)
Verified refugees and asylees.
If a check of Service records or other means indicates that the alien has been granted refugee status or asylee status, and such status has not been terminated in deportation, exclusion, or removal proceedings, the immigration officer shall not order the alien removed pursuant to section 235(b)(1) of the Act. If the alien is not in possession of a valid, unexpired refugee travel document, the examining immigration officer may accept an application for a refugee travel document in accordance with § 223.2(b)(2)(ii) of this chapter. If accepted, the immigration officer shall readmit the refugee or asylee in accordance with § 223.3(d)(2)(i) of this chapter. If the alien is determined not to be eligible to file an application for a refugee travel document the immigration officer may initiate removal proceedings against the alien under section 240 of the Act.
(iv)
Review of order for claimed lawful permanent residents, refugees, asylees, or U.S. citizens.
A person whose claim to U.S. citizenship has been verified may not be ordered removed. When an alien whose status has not been verified but who is claiming under oath or under penalty of perjury to be a lawful permanent resident, refugee, asylee, or U.S. citizen is ordered removed pursuant to section 235(b)(1) of the Act, the case will be referred to an immigration judge for review of the expedited removal order under section 235(b)(1)(C) of the Act and § 235.6(a)(2)(ii). If the immigration judge determines that the alien has never been admitted as a lawful permanent resident or as a refugee, granted asylum status, or is not a U.S. citizen, the order issued by the immigration officer will be affirmed and the
Service will remove the alien. There is no appeal from the decision of the immigration judge. If the immigration judge determines that the alien was once so admitted as a lawful permanent resident or as a refugee, or was granted asylum status, or is a U.S. citizen, and such status has not been terminated by final administrative action, the immigration judge will terminate proceedings and vacate the expedited removal order. The Service may initiate removal proceedings against such an alien, but not against a person determined to be a U.S. citizen, in proceedings under section 240 of the Act. During removal proceedings, the immigration judge may consider any waivers, exceptions, or requests for relief for which the alien is eligible.
(6)
Opportunity for alien to establish that he or she was admitted or paroled into the United States.
If the Commissioner determines that the expedited removal provisions of section 235(b)(1) of the Act shall apply to any or all aliens described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, such alien will be given a reasonable opportunity to establish to the satisfaction of the examining immigration officer that he or she was admitted or paroled into the United States following inspection at a port-of-entry. The alien will be allowed to present evidence or provide sufficient information to support the claim. Such evidence may consist of documentation in the possession of the alien, the Service, or a third party. The examining immigration officer will consider all such evidence and information, make further inquiry if necessary, and will attempt to verify the alien's status through a check of all available Service data systems. The burden rests with the alien to satisfy the examining immigration officer of the claim of lawful admission or parole. If the alien establishes that he or she was lawfully admitted or paroled, the case will be examined to determine if grounds of deportability under section 237(a) of the Act are applicable, or if paroled, whether such parole has been, or should be, terminated, and whether the alien is inadmissible under section 212(a) of the Act. An alien who cannot satisfy the examining officer that he or she was lawfully admitted or paroled will be ordered removed pursuant to section 235(b)(1) of the Act.
(7)
Review of expedited removal orders.
Any removal order entered by an examining immigration officer pursuant to section 235(b)(1) of the Act must be reviewed and approved by the appropriate supervisor before the order is considered final. Such supervisory review shall not be delegated below the level of the second line supervisor, or a person acting in that capacity. The supervisory review shall include a review of the sworn statement and any answers and statements made by the alien regarding a fear of removal or return. The supervisory review and approval of an expedited removal order for an alien described in section 235(b)(1)(A)(iii) of the Act must include a review of any claim of lawful admission or parole and any evidence or information presented to support such a claim, prior to approval of the order. In such cases, the supervisor may request additional information from any source and may require further interview of the alien.
(8)
Removal procedures relating to expedited removal.
An alien ordered removed pursuant to section 235(b)(1) of the Act shall be removed from the United States in accordance with section 241(c) of the Act and 8 CFR part 241.
(9)
Waivers of documentary requirements.
Nothing in this section limits the discretionary authority of the Attorney General, including authority under sections 211(b) or 212(d) of the Act, to waive the documentary requirements for arriving aliens.
(10)
Applicant for admission under section 217 of the Act.
The provisions of § 235.3(b) do not apply to an applicant for admission under section 217 of the Act.
(c)
Arriving aliens placed in proceedings under section 240 of the Act or aliens referred for an asylum merits interview under § 208.2(a)(1)(ii) of this chapter.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any arriving alien who appears to the inspecting officer to be inadmissible, and who is placed in removal proceedings pursuant to section 240 of the Act shall be detained in accordance with section 235(b) of the Act. Parole of such alien shall only be considered in accordance with § 212.5(b) of
this chapter. This paragraph (c) shall also apply to any alien who arrived before April 1, 1997, and who was placed in exclusion proceedings.
(2) Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any alien over whom USCIS exercises jurisdiction pursuant to § 208.2(a)(1)(ii) of this chapter after being found to have a credible fear of persecution or torture shall be detained in accordance with section 235(b) of the Act. Parole of such alien shall only be considered in accordance with § 212.5(b) of this chapter.
(d)
Service custody.
The Service will assume custody of any alien subject to detention under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section. In its discretion, the Service may require any alien who appears inadmissible and who arrives at a land border port-of-entry from Canada or Mexico, to remain in that country while awaiting a removal hearing. Such alien shall be considered detained for a proceeding within the meaning of section 235(b) of the Act and may be ordered removed in absentia by an immigration judge if the alien fails to appear for the hearing.
(e)
Detention in non-Service facility.
Whenever an alien is taken into Service custody and detained at a facility other than at a Service Processing Center, the public or private entities contracted to perform such service shall have been approved for such use by the Service's Jail Inspection Program or shall be performing such service under contract in compliance with the Standard Statement of Work for Contract Detention Facilities. Both programs are administered by the Detention and Deportation section having jurisdiction over the alien's place of detention. Under no circumstances shall an alien be detained in facilities not meeting the four mandatory criteria for usage. These are:
(1) 24-Hour supervision,
(2) Conformance with safety and emergency codes,
(3) Food service, and
(4) Availability of emergency medical care.
(f)
Privilege of communication.
The mandatory notification requirements of consular and diplomatic officers pursuant to § 236.1(e) of this chapter apply when an inadmissible alien is detained for removal proceedings, including for purpose of conducting the credible fear determination.
[62 FR 10355, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 8494, Feb. 19, 1999; 65 FR 82256, Dec. 28, 2000; 69 FR 69490, Nov. 29, 2004; 76 FR 53790, Aug. 29, 2011; 82 FR 4771, Jan. 17, 2017; 87 FR 18220, Mar. 29, 2022]
§ 235.4
Withdrawal of application for admission.
The Attorney General may, in his or her discretion, permit any alien applicant for admission to withdraw his or her application for admission in lieu of removal proceedings under section 240 of the Act or expedited removal under section 235(b)(1) of the Act. The alien's decision to withdraw his or her application for admission must be made voluntarily, but nothing in this section shall be construed as to give an alien the right to withdraw his or her application for admission. Permission to withdraw an application for admission should not normally be granted unless the alien intends and is able to depart the United States immediately. An alien permitted to withdraw his or her application for admission shall normally remain in carrier or Service custody pending departure, unless the district director determines that parole of the alien is warranted in accordance with § 212.5(b) of this chapter.
[62 FR 10358, Mar. 6, 1997; 62 FR 15363, Apr. 1, 1997; 65 FR 82256, Dec. 28, 2000]
§ 235.5
Preinspection.
(a)
In United States territories and possessions.
In the case of any aircraft proceeding from Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (beginning November 28, 2009), Puerto Rico, or the United States Virgin Islands destined directly and without touching at a foreign port or place, to any other of such places, or to one of the States of the United States or the District of Columbia, the examination of the passengers and crew required by the Act may be made prior to the departure of the aircraft, and in such event, final determination of admissibility will be made immediately prior to such departure. The examination will be conducted in accordance with sections 232, 235, and 240 of the Act and 8 CFR parts 235 and 240. If it appears to
the immigration officer that any person in the United States being examined under this section is prima facie removable from the United States, further action with respect to his or her examination will be deferred and further proceedings regarding removability conducted as provided in section 240 of the Act and 8 CFR part 240. When the foregoing inspection procedure is applied to any aircraft, persons examined and found admissible will be placed aboard the aircraft, or kept at the airport separate and apart from the general public until they are permitted to board the aircraft. No other person will be permitted to depart on such aircraft until and unless he or she is found to be admissible as provided in this section.
(b)
In foreign territory.
In the case of any aircraft, vessel, or train proceeding directly, without stopping, from a port or place in foreign territory to a port-of-entry in the United States, the examination and inspection of passengers and crew required by the Act and final determination of admissibility may be made immediately prior to such departure at the port or place in the foreign territory and shall have the same effect under the Act as though made at the destined port-of-entry in the United States.
[62 FR 10358, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 74 FR 2836, Jan. 16, 2009; 74 FR 25388, May 28, 2009]
§ 235.6
Referral to immigration judge.
(a)
Notice
—(1)
Referral by Form I-862, Notice to Appear.
An immigration officer or asylum officer will sign and deliver a Form I-862 to an alien in the following cases:
(i) If, in accordance with the provisions of section 235(b)(2)(A) of the Act, the examining immigration officer detains an alien for a proceeding before an immigration judge under section 240 of the Act; or
(ii) If an immigration officer verifies that an alien subject to expedited removal under section 235(b)(1) of the Act has been admitted as a lawful permanent resident or refugee, or granted asylum, or, upon review pursuant to § 235.3(b)(5)(iv) of chapter I, an immigration judge determines that the alien was once so admitted or granted asylum, provided that such status has not been terminated by final administrative action, and the DHS initiates removal proceedings against the alien under section 240 of the Act.
(iii)-(iv) [Reserved]
(2)
Referral by Form I-863, Notice of Referral to Immigration Judge.
An immigration officer will sign and deliver a Form I-863 to an alien in the following cases:
(i) If an asylum officer determines that the alien does not have a credible fear of persecution or torture, and the alien requests a review of that determination by an immigration judge;
(ii) If, in accordance with section 235(b)(1)(C) of the Act, an immigration officer refers an expedited removal order entered on an alien claiming to be a lawful permanent resident, refugee, asylee, or U.S. citizen for whom the officer could not verify such status to an immigration judge for review of the order; or
(iii) If an immigration officer refers an applicant in accordance with the provisions of § 208.2(c)(1) or (2) of this chapter to an immigration judge for an asylum- or withholding-only hearing.
(b)
Certification for mental condition; medical appeal.
An alien certified under sections 212(a)(1) and 232(b) of the Act shall be advised by the examining immigration officer that he or she may appeal to a board of medical examiners of the United States Public Health Service pursuant to section 232 of the Act. If such appeal is taken, the district director shall arrange for the convening of the medical board.
(c) The provisions of part 235 are separate and severable from one another. In the event that any provision in part 235 is stayed, enjoined, not implemented, or otherwise held invalid, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be implemented as an independent rule and continue in effect.
[62 FR 10358, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 8494, Feb. 19, 1999; 74 FR 55739, Oct. 28, 2009; 85 FR 29316, May 14, 2020; 85 FR 80393, Dec. 11, 2020; 87 FR 18220, Mar. 29, 2022]
§ 235.6, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 85 FR 84196, Dec. 23, 2020, § 235.6 was amended by revising paragraph (a)(2)(i), effective Jan. 22, 2021. The amendment to § 235.6 was delayed until Mar. 22, 2021, at 86 FR 6847, Jan. 25, 2021, further delayed until Dec. 31, 2021, at 86 FR 15069,
Mar. 22, 2021, further delayed until Dec. 31, 2022, at 86 FR 73615, Dec. 28, 2021, further delayed until Dec. 31, 2024, at 87 FR 79789, Dec. 28, 2022, and further delayed until Dec. 31, 2025, at 89 FR 105386, Dec. 27, 2024. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 235.6
Referral to immigration judge.
(a) * * *
(2) * * *
(i) If an asylum officer determines that the alien has not established a credible fear of persecution, reasonable possibility of persecution, reasonable possibility of torture, or that it is more likely than not that the alien would be tortured in the prospective country of removal, and the alien requests a review of that determination by an immigration judge; or
§ 235.7
Automated inspection services (PORTPASS).
(a)
PORTPASS Program
—(1)
Definitions
—(i)
Port Passenger Accelerated Service System (PORTPASS).
A system in which certain ports-of-entry (POEs) are identified and designated by the Service as providing access to the United States for a group of identified, low-risk, border crossers. Alien participants in the PORTPASS program are personally inspected, identified, and screened in advance of approval for participation in the program by an immigration officer, and may apply to enter the United States through a dedicated commuter lane (DCL) or through an automated permit port (APP). Such advance inspection and identification, when the enrolled participant satisfies the conditions and requirements set fourth in this section, satisfies the reporting requirements of § 235.1(a). Each successful use of PORTPASS constitutes a separate and completed inspection and application for entry by the alien program participants on the date PORTPASS is used. United States citizens who meet the eligibility requirements for participation are subject to all rules, procedures, and conditions for use set forth in this section.
(ii)
SENTRI program.
Although the SENTRI program is a PORTPASS program, all the parameters of the SENTRI program, including the eligibility requirements, application procedures, redress procedures, registration of vehicles, use of dedicated commuter lanes, and fee requirements are specified in § 235.14. For purposes of the SENTRI program, § 235.14 supersedes the provisions of this section.
(iii)
Automated Permit Port (APP).
A POE designated by the Service to provide access to the United States by an identified, low-risk, border crosser through the use of automation when the POE is not staffed. An APP has limited hours of operation and is located at a remote location on a land border. This program is limited to the northern border of the United States.
(iv)
Dedicated Commuter Lane (DCL).
A special lane set apart from the normal flow of traffic at a land border POE which allows an accelerated inspection for identified, low-risk travelers. This program is limited to the northern border of the United States and the California-Mexico border.
(v)
DCL system costs fee.
A fee charged to a participant to cover the cost of the implementation and operation of the PORTPASS system. If a participant wishes to enroll more than one vehicle for use in the PORTPASS system, he or she will be assessed an
additional vehicle fee
for each additional vehicle enrolled. Regardless of when the additional vehicle is enrolled, the expiration date for use of that vehicle in the DCL will be the same date that the respective participant's authorized use of the lane expires, or is otherwise revoked.
(2)
Designation of POEs for PORTPASS access.
The following criteria shall be used by the Service in the selection of a POE when classifying the POE as having PORTPASS access:
(i) The location has an identifiable group of low-risk border crossers;
(ii) The institution of PORTPASS access will not significantly inhibit normal traffic flow;
(iii) The POE selected for access via a DCL has a sufficient number of Service personnel to perform primary and secondary inspection functions.
(3)
General eligibility requirements for PORTPASS program applicants.
Applicants to PORTPASS must be citizens or lawful permanent residents of the United States, or nonimmigrants determined to be eligible by the Commissioner of the Service. Non-United
States citizens must meet all applicable documentary and entry eligibility requirements of the Act. Applicants must agree to furnish all information requested on the application, and must agree to terms set forth for use of the PORTPASS program. Use of the PORTPASS program constitutes application for entry into the United States. Criminal justice information databases will be checked to assist in determining the applicant's eligibility for the PORTPASS program at the time the Form I-823, Application—Alternative Inspection Services, is submitted. Criminal justice information on PORTPASS participants will be updated regularly, and the results will be checked electronically at the time of each approved participant's use of PORTPASS. Notwithstanding the provisions of 8 CFR part 264, fingerprints on Form FD-258 or in the manner prescribed by the Service may be required.
(4)
Application.
(i) Application for PORTPASS access shall be made on Form I-823, Application—Alternative Inspection Services. Applications may be submitted during regular working hours at the principal Port-of-Entry having jurisdiction over the Port-of-Entry for which the applicant requests access. Applications may also be submitted by mail.
(ii) Each person seeking PORTPASS access must file a separate application.
(iii) The number of persons and vehicles which can use a DCL is limited numerically by the technology of the system. For this reason, distribution of applications at each POE may be limited.
(iv) Applications must be supported by evidence of citizenship, and, in the case of lawful permanent residents of the United States, evidence of lawful permanent resident status in the United States. Alien applicants required to possess a valid visa must present documentation establishing such possession and any other documentation as required by the Act at the time of the application, and must be in possession of such documentation at the time of each entry, and at all times while present in the United States. Evidence of residency must be submitted by all applicants. Evidence of employment may be required to be furnished by the applicant. A current valid driver's license, and evidence of vehicle registration and insurance for the vehicle which will be occupied by the applicant as a driver or passenger when he or she uses the DCL or APP must be presented to the Service prior to approval of the application.
(v) A completed Form I-823 must be accompanied by the fee as prescribed in 8 CFR 103.7(d)(7). Each PORTPASS applicant 14 years-of-age or older must complete the application and pay the application fee. Applicants under the age of 14 will be required to complete the application, but will not be required to pay the application fee. An application for a replacement PORTPASS card must be made on the Form I-823, and filed with the fee prescribed in 8 CFR 103.7(d)(7). The district director having jurisdiction over the POE where the applicant requests access may, in his or her discretion, waive the application or replacement fee.
(vi) If fingerprints are required to assist in a determination of eligibility at that POE, the applicant will be so advised by the Service prior to submitting his or her application. The applicant shall also be informed at that time of the current Federal Bureau of Investigation fee for conducting a fingerprint check. This fee must be paid by the applicant to the Service before any processing of the application shall occur. The fingerprint fee may be not be waived.
(vii) Each applicant must present himself or herself for an inspection and/or positive identification at a time designated by the Service prior to approval of the application.
(viii) Each vehicle that a PORTPASS participant desires to register in PORTPASS must be inspected and approved by the Service prior to use in the PORTPASS system. Evidence of valid, current registration and vehicle insurance must be presented to the Service at the time the vehicle is inspected. If the vehicle is not owned by the participant, the participant may be required to present written permission from the registered owner authorizing use of the vehicle in the PORTPASS program throughout the PORTPASS registration period.
(ix) An applicant, whether an occupant or driver, may apply to use more than one vehicle in the DCL. The first vehicle listed on the Form I-823 will be designated as the applicant's primary vehicle. The second vehicle, if not designated by another applicant as his or her primary vehicle, is subject to the additional vehicle charge as prescribed by the Service.
(x) An application may be denied in the discretion of the district director having jurisdiction over the POE where the applicant requests access. Notice of such denial shall be given to the applicant. There is no appeal from the denial, but denial is without prejudice to reapplying for this or any other Service benefit. Re-applications, or applications following revocation of permission to use the lane, will not be considered by the Service until 90 days have passed following the date of denial or revocation. Criteria which will be considered in the decision to approve or deny the application include the following: admissibility to the United States and documentation so evidencing, criminal history and/or evidence of criminality, purpose of travel, employment, residency, prior immigration history, possession of current driver's license, vehicle insurance and registration, and vehicle inspection.
(xi) Applications approved by the Service will entitle the applicant to seek entry via a designated PORTPASS Program POE for a period of 2 years from the date of approval of the application unless approval is otherwise withdrawn. An application for a replacement card will not extend the initial period of approval.
(5) By applying for and participating in the PORTPASS program, each approved participant acknowledges and agrees to all of the following:
(i) The installation and/or use of, in the vehicle approved for use in the PORTPASS program, any and all decals, devices, technology or other methodology deemed necessary by the Service to ensure inspection of the person(s) seeking entry through a DCL, in addition to any fee and/or monetary deposit assessed by the Service pending return of any and all such decals, devices, technology, and other methodology in undamaged condition.
(ii) That all devices, decals, or other equipment, methodology, or technology used to identify or inspect persons or vehicles seeking entry via any PORTPASS program remains the property of the United States Government at all times, and must be surrendered upon request by the Service. Each participant agrees to abide by the terms set forth by the Service for use of any device, decal, or other equipment, method or technology.
(iii) The payment of a system costs fee as determined by the Service to be necessary to cover the costs of implementing, maintaining, and operating the PORTPASS program.
(iv) That each occupant of a vehicle applying for entry through PORTPASS must have current approval from the Service to apply for entry through the PORTPASS program in that vehicle.
(v) That a participant must be in possession of any authorization document(s) issued for PORTPASS access and any other entry document(s) as required by the Act or by regulation at the time of each entry to the United States.
(vi) That a participant must positively identify himself or herself in the manner prescribed by the Service at the time of each application for entry via the PORTPASS.
(vii) That each use of PORTPASS constitutes a separate application for entry to the United States by the alien participant.
(viii) That each participant agrees to be responsible for all contents of the vehicle that he or she occupies when using PORTPASS.
(ix) That a participant may not import merchandise or transport controlled or restricted items using PORTPASS. The entry of any merchandise or goods must be in accordance with the laws and regulations of all other Federal inspection agencies.
(x) That a participant must abide by all Federal, state and local laws regarding the importation of alcohol or agricultural products or the importation or possession of controlled substances as defined in section 101 of the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. § 802).
(xi) That a participant will be subject to random checks or inspections that
may be conducted by the Service at any time and at any location, to ensure compliance.
(xii) That current vehicle registration and, if applicable, current permission to use the vehicle in PORTPASS, and evidence of current vehicle insurance, shall be in the vehicle at all times during use of PORTPASS.
(xiii) Participant agrees to notify the Service if a vehicle approved for use in a PORTPASS program is sold, stolen, damaged, or disposed of otherwise. If a vehicle is sold, it is the responsibility of the participant to remove or obliterate any identifying device or other authorization for participation in the program or at the time of sale unless otherwise notified by the Service. If any license plates are replaced on an enrolled vehicle, the participant must submit a properly executed Form I-823, without fee, prior to use of the vehicle in the PORTPASS program.
(xiv) That APP-approved participants who wish to enter the United States through a POE other than one designated as an APP through which they may pass must present themselves for inspection or examination by an immigration officer during normal business hours. Entry to the United States during hours when a Port of Entry is not staffed may be made only through a POE designated as an APP.
(b)
Violation of condition of the PORTPASS program.
A PORTPASS program participant who violates any condition of the PORTPASS program, or who has violated any immigration law or regulation, or a law or regulation of the United States Customs Service or other Federal Inspection Service, or who is otherwise determined by an immigration officer to be inadmissible to the United States or ineligible to participate in PORTPASS, may have the PORTPASS access revoked at the discretion of the district director or the chief patrol agent and may be subject to other applicable sanctions, such as criminal and/or administrative prosecution or deportation, as well as possible seizure of goods and/or vehicles.
(c)
Judicial review.
Nothing in this section is intended to create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable in law or equity by a party against the Department of Justice, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, their officers or any employees of the Department of Justice.
[61 FR 53831, Oct. 16, 1996. Redesignated at 62 FR 10358, Mar. 6, 1997; 68 FR 10145, Mar. 4, 2003; 85 FR 46926, Aug. 3, 2020; 89 FR 22628, Apr. 2, 2024]
§ 235.8
Inadmissibility on security and related grounds.
(a)
Report.
When an immigration officer or an immigration judge suspects that an arriving alien appears to be inadmissible under section 212(a)(3)(A) (other than clause (ii)), (B), or (C) of the Act, the immigration officer or immigration judge shall order the alien removed and report the action promptly to the district director who has administrative jurisdiction over the place where the alien has arrived or where the hearing is being held. The immigration officer shall, if possible, take a brief sworn question-and-answer statement from the alien, and the alien shall be notified by personal service of Form I-147, Notice of Temporary Inadmissibility, of the action taken and the right to submit a written statement and additional information for consideration by the Attorney General. The district director shall forward the report to the regional director for further action as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Action by regional director.
(1) In accordance with section 235(c)(2)(B) of the Act, the regional director may deny any further inquiry or hearing by an immigration judge and order the alien removed by personal service of Form I-148, Notice of Permanent Inadmissibility, or issue any other order disposing of the case that the regional director considers appropriate.
(2) If the regional director concludes that the case does not meet the criteria contained in section 235(c)(2)(B) of the Act, the regional director may direct that:
(i) An immigration officer shall conduct a further examination of the alien, concerning the alien's admissibility; or,
(ii) The alien's case be referred to an immigration judge for a hearing, or for the continuation of any prior hearing.
(3) The regional director's decision shall be in writing and shall be signed
by the regional director. Unless the written decision contains confidential information, the disclosure of which would be prejudicial to the public interest, safety, or security of the United States, the written decision shall be served on the alien. If the written decision contains such confidential information, the alien shall be served with a separate written order showing the disposition of the case, but with the confidential information deleted.
(4) The Service shall not execute a removal order under this section under circumstances that violate section 241(b)(3) of the Act or Article 3 of the Convention Against Torture. The provisions of part 208 of this chapter relating to consideration or review by an immigration judge, the Board of Immigration Appeals, or an asylum officer shall not apply.
(c)
Finality of decision.
The regional director's decision under this section is final when it is served upon the alien in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section. There is no administrative appeal from the regional director's decision.
(d)
Hearing by immigration judge.
If the regional director directs that an alien subject to removal under this section be given a hearing or further hearing before an immigration judge, the hearing and all further proceedings in the matter shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of section 240 of the Act and other applicable sections of the Act to the same extent as though the alien had been referred to an immigration judge by the examining immigration officer. In a case where the immigration judge ordered the alien removed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the Service shall refer the case back to the immigration judge and proceedings shall be automatically reopened upon receipt of the notice of referral. If confidential information, not previously considered in the matter, is presented supporting the inadmissibility of the alien under section 212(a)(3)(A) (other than clause (ii)), (B) or (C) of the Act, the disclosure of which, in the discretion of the immigration judge, may be prejudicial to the public interest, safety, or security, the immigration judge may again order the alien removed under the authority of section 235(c) of the Act and further action shall be taken as provided in this section.
(e)
Nonapplicability.
The provisions of this section shall apply only to arriving aliens, as defined in 8 CFR 1.2. Aliens present in the United States who have not been admitted or paroled may be subject to proceedings under Title V of the Act.
[62 FR 10358, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 8494, Feb. 19, 1999; 76 FR 53790, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 235.9
Northern Marianas identification card.
During the two-year period that ended July 1, 1990, the Service issued Northern Marianas Identification Cards to aliens who acquired United States citizenship when the Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union with the United States entered into force on November 3, 1986. These cards remain valid as evidence of United States citizenship. Although the Service no longer issues these cards, a United States citizen to whom a card was issued may file Form I-777, Application for Issuance or Replacement of Northern Marianas Card, to obtain replacement of a lost, stolen, or mutilated Northern Marianas Identification Card.
[62 FR 10359, Mar. 6, 1997]
§ 235.10
U.S. Citizen Identification Card.
(a)
General.
Form I-197, U.S. Citizen Identification Card, is no longer issued by the Service but valid existing cards will continue to be acceptable documentation of U.S. citizenship. Possession of the identification card is not mandatory for any purpose. A U.S. Citizen Identification Card remains the property of the United States. Because the identification card is no longer issued, there are no provisions for replacement cards.
(b)
Surrender and voidance
—(1)
Institution of proceeding under section 240 or 342 of the Act.
A U.S. Citizen Identification Card must be surrendered provisionally to a Service office upon notification by the district director that a proceeding under section 240 or 342 of the Act is being instituted against the person to
whom the card was issued. The card shall be returned to the person if the final order in the proceeding does not result in voiding the card under this paragraph. A U.S. Citizen Identification Card is automatically void if the person to whom it was issued is determined to be an alien in a proceeding conducted under section 240 of the Act, or if a certificate, document, or record relating to that person is canceled under section 342 of the Act.
(2)
Investigation of validity of identification card.
A U.S. Citizen Identification Card must be surrendered provisionally upon notification by a district director that the validity of the card is being investigated. The card shall be returned to the person who surrendered it if the investigation does not result in a determination adverse to his or her claim to be a United States citizen. When an investigation results in a tentative determination adverse to the applicant's claim to be a United States citizen, the applicant shall be notified by certified mail directed to his or her last known address. The notification shall inform the applicant of the basis for the determination and of the intention of the district director to declare the card void unless within 30 days the applicant objects and demands an opportunity to see and rebut the adverse evidence. Any rebuttal, explanation, or evidence presented by the applicant must be included in the record of proceeding. The determination whether the applicant is a United States citizen must be based on the entire record and the applicant shall be notified of the determination. If it is determined that the applicant is not a United States citizen, the applicant shall be notified of the reasons, and the card deemed void. There is no appeal from the district director's decision.
(3)
Admission of alienage.
A U.S. Citizen Identification Card is void if the person to whom it was issued admits in a statement signed before an immigration officer that he or she is an alien and consents to the voidance of the card. Upon signing the statement the card must be surrendered to the immigration officer.
(4)
Surrender of void card.
A void U.S. Citizen Identification Card which has not been returned to the Service must be surrendered without delay to an immigration officer or to the issuing office of the Service.
(c)
U.S. Citizen Identification Card previously issued on Form I-179.
A valid Form I-179, U.S. Citizen Identification Card, continues to be valid subject to the provisions of this section.
[62 FR 10359, Mar. 6, 1997]
§ 235.11
Admission of conditional permanent residents.
(a)
General
—(1)
Conditional residence based on family relationship.
An alien seeking admission to the United States with an immigrant visa as the spouse or son or daughter of a United States citizen or lawful permanent resident shall be examined to determine whether the conditions of section 216 of the Act apply. If so, the alien shall be admitted conditionally for a period of 2 years. At the time of admission, the alien shall be notified that the alien and his or her petitioning spouse must file a Form I-751, Petition to Remove the Conditions on Residence, within the 90-day period immediately preceding the second anniversary of the alien's admission for permanent residence.
(2)
Conditional residence based on entrepreneurship.
An alien seeking admission to the United States with an immigrant visa as an alien entrepreneur (as defined in section 216A(f)(1) of the Act) or the spouse or unmarried minor child of an alien entrepreneur shall be admitted conditionally for a period of 2 years. At the time of admission, the alien shall be notified that the principal alien (entrepreneur) must file a Form I-829, Petition by Entrepreneur to Remove Conditions, within the 90-day period immediately preceding the second anniversary of the alien's admission for permanent residence.
(b)
Correction of endorsement on immigrant visa.
If the alien is subject to the provisions of section 216 of the Act, but the classification endorsed on the immigrant visa does not so indicate, the endorsement shall be corrected and the alien shall be admitted as a lawful permanent resident on a conditional basis, if otherwise admissible. Conversely, if the alien is not subject to the provisions of section 216 of the Act, but the
visa classification endorsed on the immigrant visa indicates that the alien is subject thereto (e.g., if the second anniversary of the marriage upon which the immigrant visa is based occurred after the issuance of the visa and prior to the alien's application for admission) the endorsement on the visa shall be corrected and the alien shall be admitted as a lawful permanent resident without conditions, if otherwise admissible.
(c)
Expired conditional permanent resident status.
The lawful permanent resident alien status of a conditional resident automatically terminates if the conditional basis of such status is not removed by the Service through approval of a Form I-751, Petition to Remove the Conditions on Residence or, in the case of an alien entrepreneur (as defined in section 216A(f)(1) of the Act), Form I-829, Petition by Entrepreneur to Remove Conditions. Therefore, an alien who is seeking admission as a returning resident subsequent to the second anniversary of the date on which conditional residence was obtained (except as provided in § 211.1(b)(1) of this chapter) and whose conditional basis of such residence has not been removed pursuant to section 216(c) or 216A(c) of the Act, whichever is applicable, shall be placed under removal proceedings. However, in a case where conditional residence was based on a marriage, removal proceedings may be terminated and the alien may be admitted as a returning resident if the required Form I-751 is filed jointly, or by the alien alone (if appropriate), and approved by the Service. In the case of an alien entrepreneur, removal proceedings may be terminated and the alien admitted as a returning resident if the required Form I-829 is filed by the alien entrepreneur and approved by the Service.
[62 FR 10360, Mar. 6, 1997]
§ 235.12
Global Entry program.
(a)
Program description.
The Global Entry program is a voluntary international trusted traveler program consisting of an integrated passenger processing system that facilitates the movement of pre-approved, low-risk, air travelers by providing dedicated CBP processing at specified airports. In order to participate, a person must meet the eligibility requirements specified in this section, apply in advance, undergo vetting by CBP, and be accepted into the program. The Global Entry program allows participants dedicated CBP processing at selected airports identified by CBP at
www.cbp.gov.
Participants in the Global Entry program may also take advantage of certain benefits of the Secure Electronic Network for Travelers Rapid Inspection (SENTRI) and NEXUS programs. Please see
http://www.cbp.gov
for additional information. Participants will be processed through the use of CBP-approved technology that will include the use of biometrics to validate identity and to perform enforcement queries.
(b)
Program eligibility criteria
—(1)
Eligible individuals.
The following individuals, who hold a valid, machine-readable passport, a valid, machine-readable U.S. Lawful Permanent Resident Card (Form I-551), or other appropriate travel document as determined by CBP, may apply to participate in Global Entry:
(i) U.S. citizens, U.S. nationals, and U.S. lawful permanent residents absent any of the disqualifying factors described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(ii) Certain nonimmigrant aliens from countries that have entered into arrangements with CBP concerning international trusted traveler programs absent any of the disqualifying factors described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and subject to the conditions set forth in the particular arrangement. Individuals from a country that has entered into such an arrangement with CBP may be eligible to apply for participation in Global Entry only after CBP announces the arrangement by publication of a notice in the
Federal Register.
The notice will include the country, the scope of eligibility of nonimmigrant aliens from that country (
e.g.,
whether only citizens of the foreign country or citizens and non-citizens are eligible) and other conditions that may apply based on the terms of the arrangement. CBP may change or terminate these arrangements without prior notice to the public, but will announce such actions as soon as practicable on
www.globalentry.gov
and by publication of a notice in the
Federal Register.
(iii) Persons under the age of 18 who meet the eligibility criteria of paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section must have the consent of a parent or legal guardian to participate in Global Entry and provide proof of such consent in accordance with CBP instructions.
(2)
Disqualifying factors.
An individual is ineligible to participate in Global Entry if CBP, at its sole discretion, determines that the individual presents a potential risk for terrorism, criminality (such as smuggling), or is otherwise not a low-risk traveler. This risk determination will be based in part upon an applicant's ability to demonstrate past compliance with laws, regulations, and policies. Reasons why an applicant may not qualify for participation include:
(i) The applicant provides false or incomplete information on the application;
(ii) The applicant has been arrested for, or convicted of, any criminal offense or has pending criminal charges or outstanding warrants in any country;
(iii) The applicant has been found in violation of any customs, immigration, or agriculture regulations, procedures, or laws in any country;
(iv) The applicant is the subject of an investigation by any federal, state, or local law enforcement agency in any country;
(v) The applicant is inadmissible to the United States under applicable immigration laws or has, at any time, been granted a waiver of inadmissibility or parole;
(vi) The applicant is known or suspected of being or having been engaged in conduct constituting, in preparation for, in aid of, or related to terrorism; or
(vii) The applicant cannot satisfy CBP of his or her low-risk status or meet other program requirements.
(c)
Participating airports.
The Global Entry program allows participants dedicated CBP processing at the locations identified at
www.cbp.gov.
Expansions of the Global Entry program to new airports will be announced by publication in the
Federal Register
and at
www.cbp.gov.
(d)
Program application.
(1) Each applicant must complete and submit the program application electronically through an approved application process as determined by CBP. The application and application instructions for the Global Entry program are available at
www.globalentry.gov.
(2) Except for certain minors, all applicants must pay the non-refundable fee in the amount set forth at 8 CFR 103.7(d)(13) for “Global Entry.” Minors under the age of 18 who apply to the Global Entry program concurrently with a parent or legal guardian, or whose parent or legal guardian is already a participant of Global Entry, are exempt from payment of the applicable fee. The fee is to be paid to CBP at the time of application through the online TTP System, which can be found through
www.cbp.gov,
or other CBP-approved process.
(3) Every applicant accepted into Global Entry is accepted for a period of 5 years provided participation is not terminated by CBP prior to the end of the 5-year period. Each applicant may apply to renew participation up to one year prior to the close of the participation period.
(4) Each applicant may check the status of his or her application through his or her account with the application system in use for Global Entry.
(e)
Interview and enrollment.
(1) After submitting the application, conditionally approved applicants will be notified by CBP that they need to undergo a personal interview.
(2) Each applicant must bring to the interview with CBP the original of the identification document specified in his or her application. During the interview, CBP will collect biometric information from the applicant (
e.g.,
a set of ten fingerprints and/or digital photograph) to conduct background checks or as otherwise required for participation in the program.
(3) CBP may provide for alternative enrollment procedures, as necessary, to facilitate enrollment and ensure an applicant's eligibility for the program.
(f)
Valid machine-readable passport or valid lawful permanent resident card.
Each participant must possess a valid,
machine-readable passport, a valid, machine-readable U.S. Lawful Permanent Resident Card (Form I-551), or other appropriate travel document as determined by CBP.
(g)
Arrival procedures.
In order to utilize the Global Entry program, each participant must:
(1) Proceed to Global Entry Processing and follow all CBP instructions; and
(2) Proceed to the nearest open primary inspection station if CBP determines it is appropriate.
(h)
Application for entry, examination, and inspection.
Each successful use of Global Entry constitutes a separate and completed inspection and application for entry by the participant on the date that Global Entry is used. Global Entry participants may be subject to further CBP examination and inspection at any time during the arrival process.
(i)
Pilot participant enrollment.
Upon implementation of the Global Entry Program, participants in the Global Entry pilot will be automatically enrolled in the Global Entry Program for 5 years from the date of enrollment in the pilot.
(j)
Denial and removal.
(1) If an applicant is denied participation in Global Entry, CBP will notify the applicant of the denial, and the reasons for the denial. CBP will also provide instructions regarding how to proceed if the applicant wishes to seek additional information as to the reason for the denial.
(2) A Global Entry participant may be removed from the program for any of the following reasons:
(i) CBP, at its sole discretion, determines that the participant has engaged in any disqualifying activities under the Global Entry program as outlined in § 235.12(b)(2);
(ii) CBP, at its sole discretion, determines that the participant provided false information in the application and/or during the application process;
(iii) CBP, at its sole discretion, determines that the participant failed to follow the terms, conditions and requirements of the program;
(iv) CBP, at its sole discretion, determines that the participant has been arrested or convicted of a crime or otherwise no longer meets the program eligibility criteria; or
(v) CBP, at its sole discretion, determines that such action is otherwise necessary.
(3) CBP will notify the participant of his or her suspension or removal in writing. Such suspension or removal is effective immediately.
(4) An applicant or participant denied or removed will not receive a refund, in whole or in part, of his or her application processing fee.
(k)
Redress.
An individual whose application is denied or who is removed from the program has two possible methods of redress. These processes do not create or confer any legal right, privilege or benefit on the applicant or participant, and are wholly discretionary on the part of CBP. The methods of redress are:
(1)
DHS Traveler Redress Inquiry Program (DHS TRIP).
The applicant/participant may choose to initiate the redress process through DHS Traveler Redress Program (DHS TRIP). An applicant/participant seeking redress may obtain the necessary forms and information to initiate the process on the DHS TRIP website, or by contacting DHS TRIP by mail at the address on the DHS TRIP website.
(2)
Ombudsman.
Applicants (including applicants who were not scheduled for an interview at an enrollment center) and participants may contest a denial or removal by submitting a reconsideration request to the CBP Trusted Traveler Ombudsman through the online TTP System or other CBP-approved process.
[77 FR 5690, Feb. 6, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 46926, Aug. 3, 2020; 89 FR 22628, Apr. 2, 2024]
§ 235.13
U.S. Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Travel Card Program.
(a)
Description.
The U.S. Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Business Travel Card Program is a voluntary program designed to facilitate travel for bona fide U.S. business persons engaged in business in the APEC region and U.S. government officials actively engaged in APEC business within the APEC region. Participants will receive a U.S. APEC Business
Travel Card that will enable them access to fast-track immigration lanes at participating airports in foreign APEC member economies. In order to obtain a U.S. APEC Business Travel Card, an individual must meet the eligibility requirements specified in this section, apply in advance, pay any requisite fee and be approved as a card holder. The APEC member economies are identified at
http://www.apec.org.
(b)
Program eligibility criteria
—(1)
Eligible individuals.
An individual is eligible for the U.S. APEC Business Travel Card if he or she is:
(i) A U.S. citizen;
(ii) An existing member in good standing of a CBP trusted traveler program or approved for membership in a CBP trusted traveler program during the application process described in paragraph (c) of this section. For the purpose of this section only, “trusted traveler program” is defined as a voluntary program of the Department that allows U.S. Customs and Border Protection to expedite clearance of pre-approved, low-risk travelers arriving in the United States; and
(iii) A bona fide U.S. business person engaged in business in the APEC region or U.S. Government official actively engaged in APEC business.
(A) “APEC business” means U.S. government activities that support the work of APEC.
(B) A “bona fide business person engaged in business in the APEC region” means a person engaged in the trade of goods, the provision of services, or the conduct of investment activities in the APEC region. Professional athletes, news correspondents, entertainers, musicians, artists or persons engaged in similar occupations are not considered to be bona fide business persons engaged in business in the APEC region.
(2)
Conditions regarding the use of the U.S. APEC Business Travel Card.
(i) The U.S. APEC Business Travel Card is not transferable and may be used only by the U.S. APEC Business Travel Card holder and not by anyone else including the card holder's spouse or child.
(ii) The U.S. APEC Business Travel Card can be used only if the card holder is traveling solely for business purposes to a foreign APEC member economy and is not engaging in paid employment in the foreign APEC member economy.
(c)
Application process.
(1) Each applicant must complete and submit an application electronically through the Global Entry Enrollment System (GOES) or other applicable process as determined by CBP. The application and application instructions for the card are available as an add-on to the CBP trusted traveler application at
www.globalentry.gov.
(2) Each applicant must certify that he or she is an existing member in good standing in a CBP trusted traveler program or that he or she has submitted an application to a CBP trusted traveler program; that he or she is a bona fide U.S. business person engaged in business in the APEC region or U.S. Government official actively engaged in APEC business; and, that he or she is not a professional athlete, news correspondent, entertainer, musician, artist or person engaged in a similar occupation.
(3) Each applicant must provide his or her signature so that the signature will appear on the face of the card.
(4) If the applicant is not a member of a CBP trusted traveler program, the applicant must concurrently apply for membership in a CBP trusted traveler program and be approved for such membership. Applicants for a CBP trusted traveler program must have an in-person interview, undergo a vetting process and pay the relevant CBP trusted traveler fee. Active membership in a CBP trusted traveler program is necessary for the entire duration of the U.S. APEC Business Travel Card. If membership in the CBP trusted traveler program is set to lapse before the U.S. APEC Business Travel Card expires, the individual must renew his or her CBP trusted traveler membership prior to its expiration date in order to retain membership in the U.S. APEC Business Travel Card Program.
(5) Each applicant must pay a non-refundable fee in the amount set forth at 8 CFR 103.7(d)(14) for “U.S. Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Business Travel Card” at the time of application. The fee is to be paid to CBP at the time of application through the Federal Government's on-line payment
system, Pay.gov or other CBP-approved process.
(6) The U.S. APEC Business Travel Card is valid for a period of five years or until the expiration date of the card holder's passport if that is earlier, provided that membership is not terminated by CBP prior to the end of this period. CBP can terminate use of the U.S. APEC Business Travel Card if the card holder is no longer a member of a CBP trusted traveler program or if the individual is not compliant with the program requirements. Each applicant may apply to renew the card prior to its expiration.
(d)
Expedited entry privileges.
The U.S. APEC Business Travel Card will enable card holders access to a dedicated fast-track lane for expedited immigration processing at participating airports in foreign APEC member economies.
(e)
Entry requirements.
U.S. APEC Business Travel Card holders must present any travel or identity documentation, such as a passport and visa, required by the foreign APEC member economies.
(f)
Denial and removal.
(1) If an applicant is denied a U.S. APEC Business Travel Card, CBP will notify the applicant of the denial, and the reasons for the denial. CBP will also provide instructions regarding how to proceed if the applicant wishes to seek additional information as to the reason for the denial.
(2) A U.S. APEC Business Travel Card holder may be removed from the U.S. APEC Business Travel Card Program if CBP determines at its sole discretion that:
(i) The U.S. APEC Business Travel Card holder provided false information in the application and/or during the application process;
(ii) The U.S. APEC Business Travel Card holder failed to follow the terms, conditions and requirements of the program (including continued active membership in a CBP trusted traveler program);
(iii) The U.S. APEC Business Travel Card holder has been arrested or convicted of a crime or otherwise no longer meets the program eligibility criteria; or
(iv) Such action is otherwise necessary.
(3) CBP will notify the U.S. APEC Business Travel Card holder of his or her removal in writing. Such removal is effective immediately.
(4) A U.S. APEC Business Travel Card applicant or a U.S. APEC Business Travel Card holder who is denied or removed will not receive a refund, in whole or in part, of the application fee.
(g)
Redress.
An individual whose application is denied or whose participation is terminated has two possible methods of redress. These processes do not create or confer any legal right, privilege, or benefit on the applicant or participant, and are wholly discretionary on the part of CBP. The methods of redress are:
(1)
Enrollment center.
If the applicant or participant applied concurrently for the U.S. APEC Business Travel Card and a CBP trusted traveler program, the applicant or participant may contest his or her denial or removal by writing to the enrollment center where that individual's CBP trusted traveler program interview was conducted. If the applicant or participant was already a member of a CBP trusted traveler program, the applicant or participant may contest his or her denial or removal by writing to the enrollment center where that individual's signature was collected for the U.S. APEC Business Travel Card. The enrollment center addresses are available at
www.globalentry.gov, http://www.globalentry.gov/nexus.html
and
http://www.globalentry.gov/sentri.html.
The letter must be received by CBP within 30 calendar days of the date provided as the date of removal. The individual should write on the envelope “Redress Request RE: U.S. APEC Business Travel Card.” The letter should address any facts or conduct listed in the notification from CBP as contributing to the denial or removal and why the applicant or participant believes the reason for the action is invalid. If the applicant or participant believes that the denial or removal was based upon inaccurate information, the individual should also include any reasonably available supporting documentation with the letter. After review, CBP will inform the individual of its redress decision. If the individual's request for redress is successful, the individual's
eligibility to be a U.S. APEC Business Travel Card holder will continue immediately.
(2)
Ombudsman.
Applicants and participants may contest a denial or removal by writing to the CBP Trusted Traveler Ombudsman at the address listed on the Web site
www.globalentry.gov.
[79 FR 27174, May 13, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 84415, Nov. 23, 2016; 84 FR 27707, June 14, 2019; 85 FR 46926, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 235.14
SENTRI program.
(a)
Program description.
The Secure Electronic Network for Travelers Rapid Inspection (SENTRI) trusted traveler program is a voluntary program that allows certain pre-approved, low-risk travelers dedicated processing at specified land border ports along the U.S.-Mexico border. In order to participate, a person must meet the eligibility requirements specified in this section, apply in advance, undergo vetting by CBP, and be accepted into the program. A SENTRI participant will be issued a Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) card or other CBP-approved document that grants the individual access to specific, dedicated primary lanes (SENTRI lanes). These lanes are identified at
http://www.cbp.gov.
A SENTRI participant may utilize a vehicle in the dedicated SENTRI lanes into the United States from Mexico only if the vehicle is approved by CBP for such purpose. Participants in the SENTRI program may also be able to take advantage of certain benefits of the Global Entry and NEXUS programs. Please see
http://www.cbp.gov
for additional information.
(b)
Program eligibility criteria
—(1)
Eligible individuals.
Any individual may apply to participate in the SENTRI program absent any of the disqualifying factors described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Persons under the age of 18 must have the consent of a parent or legal guardian to participate in the SENTRI program and provide proof of such consent in accordance with CBP instructions.
(2)
Disqualifying factors.
An individual is ineligible to participate in the SENTRI program if CBP, at its sole discretion, determines that the individual presents a potential risk for terrorism, criminality (such as smuggling), or CBP is unable to establish that the applicant can be considered low-risk. This risk determination will be based in part upon an applicant's ability to demonstrate past compliance with laws, regulations, and policies. Reasons why an applicant may not qualify for participation include:
(i) The applicant provides false or incomplete information on his or her application;
(ii) The applicant has been arrested for, or convicted of, any criminal offense or has pending criminal charges or outstanding warrants in any country;
(iii) The applicant has been found in violation of any customs, immigration, or agriculture regulations, procedures, or laws in any country;
(iv) The applicant is the subject of an investigation by any Federal, State or local law enforcement agency in any country;
(v) The applicant is inadmissible to the United States under applicable immigration laws or has, at any time, been granted a waiver of inadmissibility or parole;
(vi) The applicant is known or suspected of being or having been engaged in conduct constituting, in preparation for, in aid of, or related to terrorism; or
(vii) The applicant cannot satisfy CBP of his or her low-risk status or meet other program requirements.
(c)
Program application.
(1) Each applicant must complete and submit the program application electronically through an approved application process as determined by CBP. The application and application instructions for the SENTRI program are available at
www.cbp.gov.
(2) During the application process, an applicant must provide information on any vehicle that will utilize the SENTRI lanes. The vehicle must be approved by CBP to utilize the dedicated SENTRI lanes. Registration of one vehicle for use in the SENTRI lanes is included in the application fee provided the vehicle is registered at the time of initial application or at renewal. If any vehicle is registered after the initial application or renewal is filed, or if an
applicant or participant wishes to register more than one vehicle for use in the SENTRI lanes, they will be assessed an additional fee in the amount set forth at 8 CFR 103.7(d)(16). The fee is to be paid to CBP at the time the vehicle is registered through the online TTP System, which can be found at
www.cbp.gov,
or other CBP-approved process.
(3) Except for certain minors, all other applicants must pay the non-refundable fee in the amount set forth at 8 CFR 103.7(d)(16) for the “SENTRI program”. Minors under the age of 18 who apply concurrently with a parent or legal guardian, or whose parent or legal guardian is already a participant of SENTRI, are exempt from payment of the applicable fee. The fee is to be paid to CBP at the time of application through the TTP System or other CBP-approved process.
(4) Every applicant accepted into the SENTRI program is accepted for a period of 5 years provided participation is not terminated by CBP prior to the end of the 5-year period. Each applicant may apply to renew participation up to one year prior to the close of the participation period.
(5) Each applicant may check the status of his or her application through his or her account with the application system in use for the SENTRI program.
(d)
Interview and enrollment.
(1) After submitting the application, conditionally approved applicants will be notified by CBP to schedule a personal interview.
(2) Each applicant must provide CBP the original of the identification document specified in his or her application. During the interview, CBP will collect biometric information from the applicant (
e.g.,
a set of fingerprints and/or digital photograph) to conduct background checks or as otherwise required for participation in the program.
(3) CBP may provide for alternative enrollment procedures, as necessary, to facilitate enrollment and ensure an applicant's eligibility for the program.
(e)
SENTRI lanes.
A SENTRI participant is issued a Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) card or other CBP-approved document. This RFID card or other CBP-approved document will grant the participant access to specific, dedicated primary lanes into the United States from Mexico (SENTRI lanes). These lanes are identified at
http://www.cbp.gov.
A SENTRI participant may utilize a vehicle in the dedicated SENTRI lanes into the United States from Mexico only if the vehicle is approved by CBP for such purpose.
(f)
Denial and removal.
(1) If an applicant is denied participation in the SENTRI program, or an applicant's or participant's vehicle is not approved for use in the SENTRI lanes, CBP will notify the applicant of the denial, and the reasons for the denial. CBP will also provide instructions regarding how to proceed if the applicant wishes to seek additional information as to the reason for the denial.
(2) A SENTRI participant may be removed from the program for any of the following reasons:
(i) CBP, at its sole discretion, determines that the participant has engaged in any disqualifying activities as outlined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section;
(ii) CBP, at its sole discretion, determines that the participant provided false information in the application and/or during the application process;
(iii) CBP, at its sole discretion, determines that the participant failed to follow the terms, conditions and requirements of the program;
(iv) CBP determines that the participant has been arrested or convicted of a crime or otherwise determines, at its sole discretion, that the participant no longer meets the program eligibility criteria; or
(v) CBP, at its sole discretion, determines that such action is otherwise necessary.
(3) CBP will notify the participant of their removal from the program in writing. Such removal is effective immediately.
(4) An applicant or participant denied or removed will not receive a refund, in whole or in part, of his or her application fee.
(g)
Redress.
An individual whose application is denied or who is removed from the program or whose vehicle is not approved for use in the program has two possible methods for redress. These processes do not create or confer any legal right, privilege, or benefit on
the applicant or participant, and are wholly discretionary on the part of CBP. The methods of redress are:
(1)
DHS Traveler Redress Inquiry Program (DHS TRIP).
The applicant/participant may choose to initiate the redress process through DHS TRIP. An applicant/participant seeking redress may obtain the necessary forms and information to initiate the process on the DHS TRIP website, or by contacting DHS TRIP by mail at the address on this website.
(2)
Ombudsman.
Applicants and participants may contest a denial or removal from the program by submitting a reconsideration request to the CBP Trusted Traveler Ombudsman through the TTP System or other CBP-approved process.
[89 FR 22629, Apr. 2, 2024]
§ 235.15
Inadmissible aliens and expedited removal during emergency border circumstances.
(a)
Applicability.
Notwithstanding §§ 235.3(b)(2)(i) and 235.3(b)(4)(i) (but not § 235.3(b)(4)(ii)), the provisions of this section apply to any alien described in § 235.3(b)(1)(i) through (ii) if the alien is described in § 208.13(g) and is not described in section 3(b) of the Presidential Proclamation of June 3, 2024, as defined in 8 CFR 208.13(h).
(b)
Expedited removal.
(1) [Reserved]
(2)
Determination of inadmissibility
—(i)
Record of proceeding.
(A) A noncitizen who is arriving in the United States, or other alien as designated pursuant to § 235.3(b)(1)(ii), who is determined to be inadmissible under section 212(a)(6)(C) or 212(a)(7) of the Act (except an alien for whom documentary requirements are waived under § 211.1(b)(3) or § 212.1 of this chapter) shall be ordered removed from the United States in accordance with section 235(b)(1) of the Act. In every case in which the expedited removal provisions will be applied and before removing an alien from the United States pursuant to this section, the examining immigration officer shall create a record of the facts of the case and statements made by the alien.
(B) The examining immigration officer shall advise the alien of the charges against him or her on Form I-860, Notice and Order of Expedited Removal, and the alien shall be given an opportunity to respond to those charges. After obtaining supervisory concurrence in accordance with § 235.3(b)(7), the examining immigration official shall serve the alien with Form I-860 and the alien shall sign the form acknowledging receipt. Interpretative assistance shall be used if necessary to communicate with the alien.
(ii)-(iii) [Reserved]
(3) [Reserved]
(4)
Claim of asylum or fear of persecution or torture.
(i) If an alien subject to the expedited removal provisions manifests a fear of return, or expresses an intention to apply for asylum or protection, expresses a fear of persecution or torture, or expresses a fear of return to his or her country or the country of removal, the inspecting officer shall not proceed further with removal of the alien until the alien has been referred for an interview by an asylum officer in accordance with part 208 of this chapter.
(A) The inspecting immigration officer shall document whether the alien has manifested or affirmatively expressed such intention, fear, or concern.
(B) The referring officer shall provide the alien with a written disclosure describing the purpose of the referral and the credible fear interview process; the right to consult with other persons prior to the interview and any review thereof at no expense to the United States Government; the right to request a review by an immigration judge of the asylum officer's credible fear determination; and the consequences of failure to establish a credible fear of persecution or torture.
(ii) [Reserved]
(c)-(f) [Reserved]
(g)
Severability.
The Department intends that in the event that any provision of paragraphs (a), (b)(2)(i), and (b)(4) of this section, § 208.35, or the Presidential Proclamation of June 3, 2024, as defined in 8 CFR 208.13(h), is held to be invalid or unenforceable by its terms, or as applied to any person or circumstance, the provisions of this section and § 208.35 should be construed so as to continue to give the maximum effect to those provisions permitted by
law, unless such holding is that a provision is wholly invalid and unenforceable, in which event the provision should be severed from the remainder of this section and the holding should not affect the remainder of this section or the application of the provision to persons not similarly situated or to dissimilar circumstances.
[89 FR 48770, June 7, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 81285, Oct. 7, 2024]
Pt. 236

# PART 236—APPREHENSION AND DETENTION OF INADMISSIBLE AND DEPORTABLE ALIENS; REMOVAL OF ALIENS ORDERED REMOVED

# Subpart A—Detention of Aliens Prior to Order of Removal
Sec.
236.1
Apprehension, custody, and detention.
236.2
Confined aliens, incompetents, and minors.
236.3
Processing, detention, and release of alien minors.
236.4
Removal of S-5, S-6, and S-7 nonimmigrants.
236.5
Fingerprints and photographs.
236.6
Information regarding detainees.
236.7-236.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Family Unity Program
236.10
Description of program.
236.11
Definitions.
236.12
Eligibility.
236.13
Ineligible aliens.
236.14
Filing.
236.15
Voluntary departure and eligibility for employment.
236.16
Travel outside the United States.
236.17
Eligibility for Federal financial assistance programs.
236.18
Termination of Family Unity Program benefits.

# Subpart C—Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals
236.21
Applicability.
236.22
Discretionary determination.
236.23
Procedures for request, terminations, and restrictions on information use.
236.24
Severability.
236.25
No private rights.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 552, 552a; 6 U.S.C. 112(a)(2), 112(a)(3), 112(b)(1), 112(e), 202, 251, 279, 291; 8 U.S.C. 1103, 1182, 1224, 1225, 1226, 1227, 1231, 1232, 1324a, 1357, 1362, 1611; 18 U.S.C. 4002, 4013(c)(4); 8 CFR part 2.

# Source:
62 FR 10360, Mar. 6, 1997, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Detention of Aliens Prior to Order of Removal
§ 236.1
Apprehension, custody, and detention.
(a)
Detainers.
The issuance of a detainer under this section shall be governed by the provisions of § 287.7 of this chapter.
(b)
Warrant of arrest
—(1)
In general.
At the time of issuance of the notice to appear, or at any time thereafter and up to the time removal proceedings are completed, the respondent may be arrested and taken into custody under the authority of Form I-200, Warrant of Arrest. A warrant of arrest may be issued only by those immigration officers listed in § 287.5(e)(2) of this chapter and may be served only by those immigration officers listed in § 287.5(e)(3) of this chapter.
(2) If, after the issuance of a warrant of arrest, a determination is made not to serve it, any officer authorized to issue such warrant may authorize its cancellation.
(c)
Custody issues and release procedures
—(1)
In general.
(i) After the expiration of the Transition Period Custody Rules (TPCR) set forth in section 303(b)(3) of Div. C of Pub. L. 104-208, no alien described in section 236(c)(1) of the Act may be released from custody during removal proceedings except pursuant to section 236(c)(2) of the Act.
(ii) Paragraph (c)(2) through (c)(8) of this section shall govern custody determinations for aliens subject to the TPCR while they remain in effect. For purposes of this section, an alien “subject to the TPCR” is an alien described in section 303(b)(3)(A) of Div. C of Pub. L. 104-208 who is in deportation proceedings, subject to a final order of deportation, or in removal proceedings. The TPCR do not apply to aliens in exclusion proceedings under former section 236 of the Act, aliens in expedited removal proceedings under section 235(b)(1) of the Act, or aliens subject to a final order of removal.
(2)
Aliens not lawfully admitted.
Subject to paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section, but notwithstanding any other provision within this section, an alien
subject to the TPCR who is not lawfully admitted is not eligible to be considered for release from custody.
(i) An alien who remains in status as an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence, conditionally admitted for permanent residence, or lawfully admitted for temporary residence is “lawfully admitted” for purposes of this section.
(ii) An alien in removal proceedings, in deportation proceedings, or subject to a final order of deportation, and not described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, is not “lawfully admitted” for purposes of this section unless the alien last entered the United States lawfully and is not presently an applicant for admission to the United States.
(3)
Criminal aliens eligible to be considered for release.
Except as provided in this section, or otherwise provided by law, an alien subject to the TPCR may be considered for release from custody if lawfully admitted. Such an alien must first demonstrate, by clear and convincing evidence, that release would not pose a danger to the safety of other persons or of property. If an alien meets this burden, the alien must further demonstrate, by clear and convincing evidence, that the alien is likely to appear for any scheduled proceeding (including any appearance required by the Service or EOIR) in order to be considered for release in the exercise of discretion.
(4)
Criminal aliens ineligible to be considered for release except in certain special circumstances.
An alien, other than an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence, subject to section 303(b)(3)(A) (ii) or (iii) of Div. C. of Pub. L. 104-208 is ineligible to be considered for release if the alien:
(i) Is described in section 241(a)(2)(C) of the Act (as in effect prior to April 1, 1997), or has been convicted of a crime described in section 101(a)(43)(B), (E)(ii) or (F) of the Act (as in effect on April 1, 1997);
(ii) Has been convicted of a crime described in section 101(a)(43)(G) of the Act (as in effect on April 1, 1997) or a crime or crimes involving moral turpitude related to property, and sentenced therefor (including in the aggregate) to at least 3 years' imprisonment;
(iii) Has failed to appear for an immigration proceeding without reasonable cause or has been subject to a bench warrant or similar legal process (unless quashed, withdrawn, or cancelled as improvidently issued);
(iv) Has been convicted of a crime described in section 101(a)(43)(Q) or (T) of the Act (as in effect on April 1, 1997);
(v) Has been convicted in a criminal proceeding of a violation of section 273, 274, 274C, 276, or 277 of the Act, or has admitted the factual elements of such a violation;
(vi) Has overstayed a period granted for voluntary departure;
(vii) Has failed to surrender or report for removal pursuant to an order of exclusion, deportation, or removal;
(viii) Does not wish to pursue, or is statutorily ineligible for, any form of relief from exclusion, deportation, or removal under this chapter or the Act; or
(ix) Is described in paragraphs (c)(5)(i)(A), (B), or (C) of this section but has not been sentenced, including in the aggregate but not including any portions suspended, to at least 2 years' imprisonment, unless the alien was lawfully admitted and has not, since the commencement of proceedings and within the 10 years prior thereto, been convicted of a crime, failed to comply with an order to surrender or a period of voluntary departure, or been subject to a bench warrant or similar legal process (unless quashed, withdrawn, or cancelled as improvidently issued). An alien eligible to be considered for release under this paragraph must meet the burdens described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section in order to be released from custody in the exercise of discretion.
(5)
Criminal aliens ineligible to be considered for release.
(i) A criminal alien subject to section 303(b)(3)(A)(ii) or (iii) of Div. C of Pub. L. 104-208 is ineligible to be considered for release if the alien has been sentenced, including in the aggregate but not including any portions suspended, to at least 2 years' imprisonment, and the alien
(A) Is described in section 237(a)(2)(D)(i) or (ii) of the Act (as in effect on April 1, 1997), or has been convicted of a crime described in section 101(a)(43)(A), (C), (E)(i), (H), (I), (K)(iii),
or (L) of the Act (as in effect on April 1, 1997);
(B) Is described in section 237(a)(2)(A)(iv) of the Act; or
(C) Has escaped or attempted to escape from the lawful custody of a local, State, or Federal prison, agency, or officer within the United States.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section, a permanent resident alien who has not, since the commencement of proceedings and within the 15 years prior thereto, been convicted of a crime, failed to comply with an order to surrender or a period of voluntary departure, or been subject to a bench warrant or similar legal process (unless quashed, withdrawn, or cancelled as improvidently issued), may be considered for release under paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(6)
Unremovable aliens and certain long-term detainees.
(i) If the district director determines that an alien subject to section 303(b)(3)(A)(ii) or (iii) of Div. C of Pub. L. 104-208 cannot be removed from the United States because the designated country of removal or deportation will not accept the alien's return, the district director may, in the exercise of discretion, consider release of the alien from custody upon such terms and conditions as the district director may prescribe, without regard to paragraphs (c)(2), (c)(4), and (c)(5) of this section.
(ii) The district director may also, notwithstanding paragraph (c)(5) of this section, consider release from custody, upon such terms and conditions as the district director may prescribe, of any alien described in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section who has been in the Service's custody for six months pursuant to a final order of deportation terminating the alien's status as a lawful permanent resident.
(iii) The district director may release an alien from custody under this paragraph only in accordance with the standards set forth in paragraph (c)(3) of this section and any other applicable provisions of law.
(iv) The district director's custody decision under this paragraph shall not be subject to redetermination by an immigration judge, but, in the case of a custody decision under paragraph (c)(6)(ii) of this section, may be appealed to the Board of Immigration Appeals pursuant to paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section.
(7)
Construction.
A reference in this section to a provision in section 241 of the Act as in effect prior to April 1, 1997, shall be deemed to include a reference to the corresponding provision in section 237 of the Act as in effect on April 1, 1997. A reference in this section to a “crime” shall be considered to include a reference to a conspiracy or attempt to commit such a crime. In calculating the 10-year period specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section and the 15-year period specified in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, no period during which the alien was detained or incarcerated shall count toward the total. References in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section to the “district director” shall be deemed to include a reference to any official designated by the Assistant Secretary/Director of ICE to exercise custody authority over aliens covered by that paragraph. Nothing in this part shall be construed as prohibiting an alien from seeking reconsideration of the Service's determination that the alien is within a category barred from release under this part.
(8) Any officer authorized to issue a warrant of arrest may, in the officer's discretion, release an alien not described in section 236(c)(1) of the Act, under the conditions at section 236(a)(2) and (3) of the Act; provided that the alien must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the officer that such release would not pose a danger to property or persons, and that the alien is likely to appear for any future proceeding. Such an officer may also, in the exercise of discretion, release an alien in deportation proceedings pursuant to the authority in section 242 of the Act (as designated prior to April 1, 1997), except as otherwise provided by law.
(9) When an alien who, having been arrested and taken into custody, has been released, such release may be revoked at any time in the discretion of the district director, acting district director, deputy district director, assistant district director for investigations, assistant district director for detention and deportation, or officer in charge (except foreign), in which event the
alien may be taken into physical custody and detained. If detained, unless a breach has occurred, any outstanding bond shall be revoked and canceled.
(10) The provisions of § 103.6 of this chapter shall apply to any bonds authorized. Subject to the provisions of this section, the provisions of § 1003.19 of this chapter shall govern availability to the respondent of recourse to other administrative authority for release from custody.
(11) An immigration judge may not exercise the authority provided in this section, and the review process described in paragraph (d) of this section shall not apply, with respect to any alien beyond the custody jurisdiction of the immigration judge as provided in § 1003.19(h) of this chapter.
(d)
Appeals from custody decisions
—(1)
Application to immigration judge.
After an initial custody determination by the district director, including the setting of a bond, the respondent may, at any time before an order under 8 CFR part 240 becomes final, request amelioration of the conditions under which he or she may be released. Prior to such final order, and except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the immigration judge is authorized to exercise the authority in section 236 of the Act (or section 242(a)(1) of the Act as designated prior to April 1, 1997 in the case of an alien in deportation proceedings) to detain the alien in custody, release the alien, and determine the amount of bond, if any, under which the respondent may be released, as provided in § 1003.19 of this chapter. If the alien has been released from custody, an application for amelioration of the terms of release must be filed within 7 days of release.
(2)
Application to the district director.
After expiration of the 7-day period in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the respondent may request review by the district director of the conditions of his or her release.
(3)
Appeal to the Board of Immigration Appeals.
An appeal relating to bond and custody determinations may be filed to the Board of Immigration Appeals in the following circumstances:
(i) In accordance with § 1003.38 of this chapter, the alien or the Service may appeal the decision of an immigration judge pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(ii) The alien, within 10 days, may appeal from the district director's decision under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section.
(4)
Effect of filing an appeal.
The filing of an appeal from a determination of an immigration judge or district director under this paragraph shall not operate to delay compliance with the order (except as provided in § 1003.19(i), nor stay the administrative proceedings or removal.
(e)
Privilege of communication.
Every detained alien shall be notified that he or she may communicate with the consular or diplomatic officers of the country of his or her nationality in the United States. Existing treaties with the following countries require immediate communication with appropriate consular or diplomatic officers whenever nationals of the following countries are detained in removal proceedings, whether or not requested by the alien and even if the alien requests that no communication be undertaken in his or her behalf. When notifying consular or diplomatic officials, Service officers shall not reveal the fact that any detained alien has applied for asylum or withholding of removal.
Algeria
1
1
Arrangements with the countries listed in 8 CFR 236.1(e) provide that U.S. authorities shall notify responsible representatives within 72 hours of the arrest or detention of one of their nationals.
Antigua and Barbuda
Armenia
Azerbaijan
Bahamas, The
Barbados
Belarus
Belize
Brunei
Bulgaria
China (People's Republic of)
2
2
Notification is not mandatory in the case of any person who carries a “Republic of China” passport issued by Taiwan. Such persons should be informed without delay that the nearest office of the Taipei Economic and Cultural Representative Office (“TECRO”), the unofficial entity representing Taiwan's interests in the United States, can be notified at their request.
Costa Rica
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Dominica
Fiji
Gambia, The
Georgia
Ghana
Grenada
Guyana
Hong Kong
3
3
Hong Kong reverted to Chinese sovereignty on July 1, 1997, and is now officially referred to as the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, or “S.A.R.” Under paragraph 3(f)(2) of the March 25, 1997, U.S.-China Agreement on the Maintenance of the U.S. Consulate General in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, U.S. officials are required to notify Chinese officials of the arrest or detention of the bearers of Hong Kong passports in the same manner as is required for bearers of Chinese passports—i.e., immediately, and in any event, within four days of the arrest or detention.
Hungary
Jamaica
Kazakhstan
Kiribati
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Malaysia
Malta
Mauritius
Moldova
Mongolia
Nigeria
Philippines
Poland
4
4
Consular communication is not mandatory for any Polish national who has been admitted for permanent residence in the United States. Such notification should only be provided upon request by a Polish national with permanent residency in the United States.
Romania
Russian Federation
St. Kitts and Nevis
St. Lucia
St. Vincent/Grenadines
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovak Republic
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkmenistan
Tuvalu
Ukraine
United Kingdom
5
5
United Kingdom includes England, Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland and Islands and the British dependencies of Anguilla, British Virgin Islands, Bermuda, Montserrat, and the Turks and Caicos Islands. Their residents carry British passports.
U.S.S.R.
6
6
All U.S.S.R. successor states are covered by this agreement. They are: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russian Federation, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. Although the U.S.S.R. no longer exists, the U.S.S.R is listed here, because some nationals of its successor states may still be traveling on a U.S.S.R. passport. Mandatory consular notification applies to any national of such a state, including one traveling on a U.S.S.R. passport.
Uzbekistan
Zambia
Zimbabwe
(f)
Notification to Executive Office for Immigration Review of change in custody status.
The Service shall notify the Immigration Court having administrative control over the Record of Proceeding of any change in custody location or of release from, or subsequent taking into, Service custody of a respondent/applicant pursuant to § 1003.19(g) of this chapter.
(g)
Notice of custody determination
—(1)
In general.
At the time of issuance of the notice to appear, or at any time thereafter and up to the time removal proceedings are completed, an immigration official may issue a Form I-286, Notice of Custody Determination. A notice of custody determination may be issued by those immigration officials listed in 8 CFR 287.5(e)(2) and may be served by those immigration officials listed in 8 CFR 287.5(e)(3), or other officers or employees of the Department or the United States who are delegated the authority to do so pursuant to 8 CFR 2.1.
(2)
Cancellation.
If after the issuance of a notice of custody determination, a determination is made not to serve it, any official authorized to issue such notice may authorize its cancellation.
[62 FR 10360, Mar. 6, 1997; 62 FR 15363, Apr. 1, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 27449, May 19, 1998; 65 FR 80294, Dec. 21, 2000; 70 FR 67088, Nov. 4, 2005; 72 FR 1924, Jan. 17, 2007; 81 FR 62355, Sept. 9, 2016]
§ 236.2
Confined aliens, incompetents, and minors.
(a)
Service.
If the respondent is confined, or if he or she is an incompetent,
or a minor under the age of 14, the notice to appear, and the warrant of arrest, if issued, shall be served in the manner prescribed in § 239.1 of this chapter upon the person or persons specified by 8 CFR 103.8(c).
(b)
Service custody and cost of maintenance.
An alien confined because of physical or mental disability in an institution or hospital shall not be accepted into physical custody by the Service until an order of removal has been entered and the Service is ready to remove the alien. When such an alien is an inmate of a public or private institution at the time of the commencement of the removal proceedings, expenses for the maintenance of the alien shall not be incurred by the Government until he or she is taken into physical custody by the Service.
[62 FR 10360, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 76 FR 53790, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 236.3
Processing, detention, and release of alien minors.
(a)
Generally.
(1) DHS treats all minors and unaccompanied alien children (UACs) in its custody with dignity, respect and special concern for their particular vulnerability.
(2) The provisions of this section apply to all minors in the legal custody of DHS, including minors who are subject to the mandatory detention provisions of the INA and applicable regulations, to the extent authorized by law.
(b)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section:
(1)
Minor
means any alien who has not attained eighteen (18) years of age and has not been:
(i) Emancipated in an appropriate state judicial proceeding; or
(ii) Incarcerated due to a conviction for a criminal offense in which he or she was tried as an adult.
(2)
Special needs minor
means a minor whose mental and/or physical condition requires special services and treatment as identified during an individualized needs assessment as referenced in paragraph (i)(4)(iii) of this section. A minor may have special needs due to drug or alcohol abuse, serious emotional disturbance, mental illness or intellectual disability, or a physical condition or chronic illness that requires special services or treatment. A minor who has suffered serious neglect or abuse may be considered a minor with special needs if the minor requires special services or treatment as a result of the neglect or abuse.
(3)
Unaccompanied alien child
(UAC) has the meaning provided in 6 U.S.C. 279(g)(2), that is, a child who has no lawful immigration status in the United States and who has not attained 18 years of age; and with respect to whom: There is no parent or legal guardian present in the United States; or no parent or legal guardian in the United States is available to provide care and physical custody. An individual may meet the definition of UAC without meeting the definition of minor.
(4)
Custody
means within the physical and legal control of an institution or person.
(5)
Emergency
means an act or event (including, but not limited to, a natural disaster, facility fire, civil disturbance, or medical or public health concerns at one or more facilities) that prevents timely transport or placement of minors, or impacts other conditions provided by this section.
(6)
Escape-risk
means that there is a serious risk that the minor will attempt to escape from custody. Factors to consider when determining whether a minor is an escape-risk include, but are not limited to, whether:
(i) The minor is currently subject to a final order of removal;
(ii) The minor's immigration history includes: A prior breach of bond, a failure to appear before DHS or the immigration courts, evidence that the minor is indebted to organized smugglers for his transport, or a voluntary departure or previous removal from the United States pursuant to a final order of removal; or
(iii) The minor has previously absconded or attempted to abscond from state or Federal custody.
(7)
Family unit
means a group of two or more aliens consisting of a minor or minors accompanied by his/her/their adult parent(s) or legal guardian(s). In determining the existence of a parental relationship or a legal guardianship for purposes of this definition, DHS will consider all available reliable evidence.
If DHS determines that there is insufficient reliable evidence available that confirms the relationship, the minor will be treated as a UAC.
(8)
Family Residential Center (FRC)
means a facility used by ICE for the detention of family units.
(9)
Licensed facility
means an ICE detention facility that is licensed by the state, county, or municipality in which it is located, if such a licensing process exists. Licensed facilities shall comply with all applicable state child welfare laws and regulations and all state and local building, fire, health, and safety codes. If a licensing process for the detention of minors accompanied by a parent or legal guardian is not available in the state, county, or municipality in which an ICE detention facility is located, DHS shall employ an entity outside of DHS that has relevant audit experience to ensure compliance with the family residential standards established by ICE. Such audits will take place at the opening of a facility and on a regular, ongoing basis thereafter. DHS will make the results of these audits publicly available.
(10)
Influx
means a situation in which there are, at any given time, more than 130 minors or UACs eligible for placement in a licensed facility under this section or corresponding provisions of ORR regulations, including those who have been so placed or are awaiting such placement.
(11)
Non-secure facility
means a facility that meets the definition of non-secure under state law in the state in which the facility is located. If no such definition of non-secure exists under state law, a DHS facility shall be deemed non-secure if egress from a portion of the facility's building is not prohibited through internal locks within the building or exterior locks and egress from the facility's premises is not prohibited through secure fencing around the perimeter of the building.
(12)
Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR)
means the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Office of Refugee Resettlement.
(c)
Age determination.
(1) For purposes of exercising the authorities described in this part, DHS shall determine the age of an alien in accordance with 8 U.S.C. 1232(b)(4). Age determination decisions shall be based upon the totality of the evidence and circumstances.
(2) If a reasonable person would conclude that an individual is an adult, despite his or her claim to be under the age of 18, DHS may treat such person as an adult for all purposes, including confinement and release on bond, recognizance, or other conditions of release. In making this determination, an immigration officer may require such an individual to submit to a medical or dental examination conducted by a medical professional or other appropriate procedures to verify his or her age.
(3) If an individual previously considered to have been an adult is subsequently determined to be under the age of 18, DHS will then treat such individual as a minor or UAC as prescribed by this section.
(d)
Determining whether an alien is a UAC
—(1)
Time of determination.
Immigration officers will make a determination as to whether an alien under the age of 18 is a UAC at the time of encounter or apprehension and prior to the detention or release of such alien.
(2)
Aliens who are no longer UACs.
When an alien previously determined to have been a UAC has reached the age of 18, when a parent or legal guardian in the United States is available to provide care and physical custody for such an alien, or when such alien has obtained lawful immigration status, the alien is no longer a UAC. An alien who is no longer a UAC is not eligible to receive legal protections limited to UACs under the relevant sections of the Act. Nothing in this paragraph affects USCIS' independent determination of its initial jurisdiction over asylum applications filed by UACs pursuant to section 208(b)(3)(C) of the Act.
(3)
Age-out procedures.
When an alien previously determined to have been a UAC is no longer a UAC because he or she turns 18 years old, relevant ORR and ICE procedures shall apply.
(e)
Transfer of minors who are not UACs from one facility to another.
(1) In the case of an influx or emergency, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, DHS will transfer a minor who is not a UAC, and who does not meet the criteria for secure detention pursuant to
paragraph (i)(1) of this section, to a licensed facility as defined in paragraph (b)(9) of this section, which is non-secure, as expeditiously as possible. Otherwise, to the extent consistent with law or court order, DHS will transfer such minor within three (3) days, if the minor was apprehended in a district in which a licensed program is located, or within five (5) days in all other cases.
(2) In the case of an emergency or influx, DHS will abide by written guidance detailing all reasonable efforts that it will take to transfer all minors who are not UACs as expeditiously as possible.
(f)
Transfer of UACs from DHS to HHS.
(1) All UACs apprehended by DHS, except those who are processed in accordance with 8 U.S.C. 1232(a)(2), will be transferred to ORR for care, custody, and placement in accordance with 6 U.S.C. 279 and 8 U.S.C. 1232.
(2) DHS will notify ORR within 48 hours upon the apprehension or discovery of a UAC or any claim or suspicion that an unaccompanied alien detained in DHS custody is under 18 years of age.
(3) Unless exceptional circumstances are present, DHS will transfer custody of a UAC as soon as practicable after receiving notification of an ORR placement, but no later than 72 hours after determining that the minor is a UAC per paragraph (d) of this section. In the case of exceptional circumstances, DHS will abide by written guidance detailing the efforts that it will take to transfer all UACs as required by law.
(4) The following relate to the conditions of transfer of UACs with unrelated detained adults:
(i) UACs will not generally be transported with unrelated detained adults. A UAC will not be transported with an unrelated detained adult(s) unless the UAC is being transported from the place of apprehension to a DHS facility or if separate transportation is otherwise impractical or unavailable.
(ii) When separate transportation is impractical or unavailable, necessary precautions will be taken to ensure the UAC's safety, security, and well-being. If a UAC is transported with any unrelated detained adult(s), DHS will separate the UAC from the unrelated adult(s) to the extent operationally feasible and take necessary precautions for protection of the UAC's safety, security, and well-being.
(g)
DHS procedures in the apprehension and processing of minors or UACs
—(1)
Processing
—(i)
Notice of rights and request for disposition.
Every minor or UAC who enters DHS custody, including minors and UACs who request voluntary departure or request to withdraw their application for admission, will be issued a Form I-770, Notice of Rights and Request for Disposition, which will include a statement that the minor or UAC may make a telephone call to a parent, close relative, or friend. The notice shall be provided, read, or explained to the minor or UAC in a language and manner that he or she understands. In the event that a minor or UAC is no longer amenable to voluntary departure or to a withdrawal of an application for admission, the minor or UAC will be issued a new Form I-770 or the Form I-770 will be updated, as needed.
(ii)
Notice of Right to Judicial Review.
Every minor who is not a UAC who is transferred to or remains in a DHS detention facility will be provided with a Notice of Right to Judicial Review, which informs the minor of his or her right to seek judicial review in United States District Court with jurisdiction and venue over the matter if the minor believes that his or her detention does not comply with the terms of paragraph (i) of this section. The Notice shall be read and explained to the minor in a language and manner that he or she understands.
(iii)
Current list of counsel.
Every minor who is not a UAC who is transferred to or remains in a DHS detention facility will be provided the free legal service provider list, prepared pursuant to section 239(b)(2) of the Act.
(2)
DHS custodial care immediately following apprehension.
(i) Following the apprehension of a minor or UAC, DHS will process the minor or UAC as expeditiously as possible. Consistent with 6 CFR 115.114, minors and UACs shall be held in the least restrictive setting appropriate to the minor or UAC's age and special needs, provided that such setting is consistent with the need to protect the minor or UAC's well-being and that of others, as well as with any
other laws, regulations, or legal requirements. DHS will hold minors and UACs in facilities that are safe and sanitary and that are consistent with DHS's concern for their particular vulnerability. Facilities will provide access to toilets and sinks, drinking water and food as appropriate, access to emergency medical assistance as needed, and adequate temperature and ventilation. DHS will provide adequate supervision and will provide contact with family members arrested with the minor or UAC in consideration of the safety and well-being of the minor or UAC, and operational feasibility. UACs generally will be held separately from unrelated adult detainees in accordance with 6 CFR 115.14(b) and 115.114(b). In the event that such separation is not immediately possible, UACs in facilities covered by 6 CFR 115.114 may be housed with an unrelated adult for no more than 24 hours except in the case of an emergency.
(ii) Consistent with the statutory requirements, DHS will transfer UACs to HHS in accordance with the procedures described in paragraph (f) of this section.
(h)
Detention of family units.
DHS's policy is to maintain family unity, including by detaining families together where appropriate and consistent with law and available resources. If DHS determines that detention of a family unit is required by law, or is otherwise appropriate, the family unit may be transferred to an FRC which is a licensed facility and non-secure.
(i)
Detention of minors who are not UACs in DHS custody.
In any case in which DHS does not release a minor who is not a UAC, said minor shall remain in DHS detention. Consistent with 6 CFR 115.14, minors shall be detained in the least restrictive setting appropriate to the minor's age and special needs, provided that such setting is consistent with the need to protect the minor's well-being and that of others, as well as with any other laws, regulations, or legal requirements. The minor shall be placed temporarily in a licensed facility, which will be non-secure, until such time as release can be effected or until the minor's immigration proceedings are concluded, whichever occurs earlier. If immigration proceedings are concluded and result in a final order of removal, DHS will detain the minor for the purpose of removal. If immigration proceedings result in a grant of relief or protection from removal where both parties have waived appeal or the appeal period defined in 8 CFR 1003.38(b) has expired, DHS will release the minor.
(1) A minor who is not a UAC referenced under this paragraph (i)(1) may be held in or transferred to a suitable state or county juvenile detention facility, or a secure DHS detention facility, or DHS contracted facility having separate accommodations for minors, whenever the Field Office Director and the ICE supervisory or management personnel have probable cause to believe that the minor:
(i) Has been charged with, is chargeable with, or has been convicted of a crime or crimes, or is the subject of delinquency proceedings, has been adjudicated delinquent, or is chargeable with a delinquent act or acts, that fit within a pattern or practice of criminal activity;
(ii) Has been charged with, is chargeable with, or has been convicted of a crime or crimes, or is the subject of delinquency proceedings, has been adjudicated delinquent, or is chargeable with a delinquent act or acts, that involve violence against a person or the use or carrying of a weapon;
(iii) Has committed, or has made credible threats to commit, a violent or malicious act (whether directed at himself or others) while in Federal or state government custody or while in the presence of an immigration officer;
(iv) Has engaged, while in the licensed facility, in conduct that has proven to be unacceptably disruptive of the normal functioning of the licensed facility in which the minor has been placed and transfer to another facility is necessary to ensure the welfare of the minor or others, as determined by the staff of the licensed facility;
(v) Is determined to be an escape-risk pursuant to paragraph (b)(6) of this section; or
(vi) Must be held in a secure facility for his or her own safety.
(2) DHS will not place a minor who is not a UAC in a secure facility pursuant
to paragraph (i)(1) if there are less restrictive alternatives that are available and appropriate in the circumstances, such as transfer to a facility which would provide intensive staff supervision and counseling services or another licensed facility. All determinations to place a minor in a secure facility will be reviewed and approved by the ICE Juvenile Coordinator referenced in paragraph (o) of this section. Secure facilities shall permit attorney-client visits in accordance with applicable facility rules and regulations.
(3) Unless a secure facility is otherwise authorized pursuant to this section, ICE facilities used for the detention of minors who are not UACs shall be non-secure facilities.
(4) Non-secure, licensed ICE facilities to which minors who are not UACs are transferred pursuant to the procedures in paragraph (e) of this section shall abide by applicable family residential standards established by ICE. At a minimum, such standards shall include provisions or arrangements for the following services for each minor who is not a UAC in its care:
(i) Proper physical care and maintenance, including suitable living, accommodations, food and snacks, appropriate clothing, and personal grooming items;
(ii) Appropriate routine medical, mental health and dental care, family planning services, and emergency health care services, including a complete medical examination (including screening for infectious disease) within 48 hours of admission, excluding weekends and holidays, unless the minor was recently examined at another facility; appropriate immunizations in accordance with the U.S. Public Health Service (PHS), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; administration of prescribed medication and special diets; appropriate mental health interventions when necessary;
(iii) An individualized needs assessment which includes:
(A) Various initial intake forms;
(B) Essential data relating to the identification and history of the minor and family;
(C) Identification of the minor's special needs including any specific problem(s) which appear to require immediate intervention;
(D) An educational assessment and plan;
(E) An assessment of family relationships and interaction with adults, peers and authority figures;
(F) A statement of religious preference and practice;
(G) An assessment of the minor's personal goals, strengths and weaknesses; and
(H) Identifying information regarding immediate family members, other relatives, godparents, or friends who may be residing in the United States and may be able to assist in family reunification;
(iv) Educational services appropriate to the minor's level of development and communication skills in a structured classroom setting, Monday through Friday, which concentrates primarily on the development of basic academic competencies and secondarily on English Language Training (ELT). The educational program should include subjects similar to those found in U.S. programs and include science, social studies, math, reading, writing, and physical education. The program design should be appropriate for the minor's estimated length of stay and can include the necessary skills appropriate for transition into a U.S. school district. The program should also include acculturation and adaptation services which include information regarding the development of social and inter-personal skills that contribute to those abilities as age appropriate;
(v) Appropriate reading materials in languages other than English for use during the minor's leisure time;
(vi) Activities according to a recreation and leisure time plan which shall include daily outdoor activity, weather permitting, at least one hour per day of large muscle activity and one hour per day of structured leisure time activities (this should not include time spent watching television). Activities should be increased to a total of three hours on days when school is not in session;
(vii) At least one individual counseling session or mental health wellness interaction (if the minor does not want to participate in a counseling session) per week conducted by trained
social work staff with the specific objectives of reviewing the minor's progress, establishing new short-term objectives, and addressing both the developmental and crisis-related needs of each minor;
(viii) Group counseling sessions at least twice a week. This is usually an informal process and takes place with all the minors present and can be held in conjunction with other structured activities. It is a time when new minors present in the facility are given the opportunity to get acquainted with the staff, other children, and the rules of the program. It is an open forum where everyone gets a chance to speak. Daily program management is discussed and decisions are made about recreational activities, etc. It is a time for staff and minors to discuss whatever is on their minds and to resolve problems;
(ix) Upon admission, a comprehensive orientation regarding program intent, services, rules (written and verbal), expectations and the availability of legal assistance;
(x) Whenever possible, access to religious services of the minor's choice;
(xi) Visitation and contact with family members (regardless of their immigration status) which is structured to encourage such visitation. The staff shall respect the minor's privacy while reasonably preventing the unauthorized release of the minor and preventing the transfer of contraband;
(xii) A reasonable right to privacy, which shall include the right to:
(A) Wear his or her own clothes, when available;
(B) Retain a private space in the residential facility for the storage of personal belongings;
(C) Talk privately on the phone, as permitted by applicable facility rules and regulations;
(D) Visit privately with guests, as permitted by applicable facility rules and regulations; and
(E) Receive and send uncensored mail unless there is a reasonable belief that the mail contains contraband;
(xiii) When necessary, communication with adult relatives living in the United States and in foreign countries regarding legal issues related to the release and/or removal of the minor;
(xiv) Legal services information regarding the availability of free legal assistance, the right to be represented by counsel at no expense to the Government, the right to apply for asylum or to request voluntary departure;
(xv) Attorney-client visits in accordance with applicable facility rules and regulations;
(xvi) Service delivery is to be accomplished in a manner which is sensitive to the age, culture, native language, and the complex needs of each minor;
(xvii) Parents/legal guardians will be responsible for supervising their children and providing parental support in managing their children's behavior. Licensed facility rules and discipline standards shall be formulated with consideration for the range of ages and maturity in the program and shall be culturally sensitive to the needs of alien minors. DHS shall not subject minors to corporal punishment, humiliation, mental abuse, or punitive interference with the daily functions of living, such as eating or sleeping. Any sanctions employed shall not adversely affect a minor's health, or physical or psychological well-being; or deny minors regular meals, sufficient sleep, exercise, medical care, correspondence privileges, or legal assistance;
(xviii) Licensed facilities will maintain and safeguard individual case records. Agencies and organizations will maintain a system of accountability which preserves the confidentiality of client information and protects the records from unauthorized use or disclosure;
(xix) Licensed facilities will maintain adequate records and make regular reports as required by DHS that permit DHS to monitor and enforce the regulations in this part and other requirements and standards as DHS may determine are in the best interests of the minors; and
(xx) Licensed facilities will maintain a grievance and complaint filing process for aliens housed therein and post information about the process in a common area of the facility. Aliens will be required to follow the proscribed process for filing formal and informal grievances against facility staff that comports with the ICE Family
Residential Standards Grievance Procedures. Complaints regarding conditions of detention shall be filed under the procedures required by the DHS Office of the Inspector General or the DHS Office of Civil Rights and Civil Liberties. Staff is prohibited from retaliating against anyone who files, or on whose behalf is filed, a grievance or complaint. In the event of an emergency, a licensed, non-secure facility described in this paragraph (i) may transfer temporary physical custody of a minor prior to securing permission from DHS, but shall notify DHS of the transfer as soon as is practicable thereafter, but in all cases within 8 hours.
(j)
Release of minors who are not UACs from DHS custody.
(1) DHS will make and record prompt and continuous efforts on its part toward the release of the minor who is not a UAC.
(2) If a minor who is not a UAC is in expedited removal proceedings (including if he or she is awaiting a credible fear determination), or is subject to a final expedited removal order, custody is governed by § 235.3(b)(2)(iii) or (b)(4)(ii) of this chapter, as applicable.
(3) If a minor who is not a UAC is subject to pending removal proceedings under section 240 of the Act, DHS will consider whether to release the minor pursuant to section 212(d)(5) or section 236(a), and the implementing regulations in 8 CFR 212.5 and § 235.3, as applicable.
(4) The parole of minors who are not UACs who are detained pursuant to section 235(b)(1)(B)(ii) of the Act or § 235.3(c) of this chapter will generally serve an urgent humanitarian reason warranting release on parole if DHS determines that detention is not required to secure the minor's timely appearance before DHS or the immigration court, or to ensure the minor's safety and well-being or the safety of others. In making this determination, DHS may consider aggregate and historical data, officer experience, statistical information, or any other probative information. The determination whether to parole a minor who is not a UAC is in the unreviewable discretion of DHS.
(5) If DHS determines to release a minor who is not a UAC during removal proceedings under section 240 of the Act, the following procedures shall apply:
(i) If a parent or legal guardian is available to provide care and physical custody, DHS will make prompt and continuous efforts to release the minor to that parent or legal guardian. Nothing in this paragraph (j)(5)(i) precludes the release of a minor who is not a UAC to an adult relative (brother, sister, aunt, uncle, or grandparent) who is not in detention and is available to provide care and physical custody. Release of a minor who is not a UAC to an adult relative other than a parent or legal guardian is within the unreviewable discretion of DHS.
(ii) Prior to releasing a minor who is not a UAC to an adult relative pursuant to paragraph (j)(5)(i) of this section, DHS will use all available reliable evidence to determine whether the relationship is bona fide. If no reliable evidence is available that confirms the relationship, DHS may continue to keep the minor who is not a UAC in custody or treat the minor as a UAC and transfer the UAC to HHS custody, as outlined in paragraph (f) of this section.
(iii) DHS shall assist without undue delay in making transportation arrangements to the DHS office nearest the location of the relative to whom a minor is to be released. DHS may, in its discretion, provide transportation to minors.
(iv) Nothing herein shall require DHS to release a minor to any person or agency whom DHS has reason to believe may harm or neglect the minor or fail to present him or her before DHS or the immigration courts when requested to do so.
(k)
Procedures upon transfer
—(1)
Possessions.
Whenever a minor or UAC is transferred from one ICE placement to another, or from an ICE placement to an ORR placement, he or she will be transferred with all possessions and legal papers; provided, however, that if the minor or UAC's possessions exceed the amount normally permitted by the carrier in use, the possessions shall be shipped to the minor or UAC in a timely manner.
(2)
Notice to counsel.
A minor or UAC who is represented will not be transferred from one ICE placement to another, or from an ICE placement to an ORR placement, until notice is provided to his or her counsel, except in unusual and compelling circumstances, such as where the safety of the minor or UAC or others is threatened or the minor or UAC has been determined to be an escape-risk, or where counsel has waived such notice. In unusual and compelling circumstances, notice will be sent to counsel within 24 hours following the transfer.
(l)
Notice to parent of refusal of release or application for relief.
(1) A parent shall be notified of any of the following requests if the parent is present in the United States and can reasonably be contacted, unless such notification is otherwise prohibited by law or DHS determines that notification of the parent would pose a risk to the minor's safety or well-being:
(i) A minor or UAC in DHS custody refuses to be released to his or her parent; or
(ii) A minor or a UAC seeks release from DHS custody or seeks voluntary departure or a withdrawal of an application for admission, parole, or any form of relief from removal before DHS, and that the grant of such request or relief may effectively terminate some interest inherent in the parent-child relationship and/or the minor or UAC's rights and interests are adverse with those of the parent.
(2) Upon notification, the parent will be afforded an opportunity to present his or her views and assert his or her interest to DHS before a determination is made as to the merits of the request for relief.
(m)
Bond hearings.
Bond determinations made by DHS for minors who are in removal proceedings pursuant to section 240 of the Act and who are also in DHS custody may be reviewed by an immigration judge pursuant to 8 CFR part 1236 to the extent permitted by 8 CFR 1003.19. Minors in DHS custody who are not in section 240 proceedings are ineligible to seek review by an immigration judge of their DHS custody determinations.
(n)
Retaking custody of a previously released minor.
(1) In addition to the ability to make a UAC determination upon each encounter as set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, DHS may take a minor back into custody if there is a material change in circumstances indicating the minor is an escape-risk, a danger to the community, or has a final order of removal. If the minor is accompanied, DHS shall place the minor in accordance with paragraphs (e) and (i) of this section. If the minor is a UAC, DHS shall transfer the minor into HHS custody in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(2) DHS may take a minor back into custody if there is no longer a parent, legal guardian, or other adult relative (brother, sister, aunt, uncle, or grandparent) available to care for the minor. If the minor is a UAC, DHS will transfer custody to HHS as outlined in paragraph (e) of this section.
(3) Minors who are not UACs and who are taken back into DHS custody may request a custody redetermination hearing in accordance with paragraph (m) of this section and to the extent permitted by 8 CFR 1003.19.
(o)
Monitoring.
(1) CBP and ICE each shall identify a Juvenile Coordinator for the purpose of monitoring compliance with the terms of this section.
(2) In addition to the monitoring required by paragraph (o)(1) of this section, the Juvenile Coordinators shall collect and periodically examine relevant statistical information about UACs and minors who remain in CBP or ICE custody for longer than 72 hours. Such statistical information may include but not necessarily be limited to:
(i) Biographical information;
(ii) Dates of custody; and
(iii) Placements, transfers, removals, or releases from custody, including the reasons for a particular placement.
[84 FR 44525, Aug. 23, 2019]
§ 236.4
Removal of S-5, S-6, and S-7 nonimmigrants.
(a)
Condition of classification.
As a condition of classification and continued stay in classification pursuant to section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act, nonimmigrants in S classification must have executed Form I-854, Part B, Inter-agency Alien Witness and Informant Record, certifying that they have
knowingly waived their right to a removal hearing and right to contest, other than on the basis of an application for withholding of deportation or removal, any removal action, including detention pending deportation or removal, instituted before lawful permanent resident status is obtained.
(b)
Determination of deportability.
(1) A determination to remove a deportable alien classified pursuant to section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act shall be made by the district director having jurisdiction over the place where the alien is located.
(2) A determination to remove such a deportable alien shall be based on one or more of the grounds of deportability listed in section 237 of the Act based on conduct committed after, or conduct or a condition not disclosed to the Service prior to, the alien's classification as an S nonimmigrant under section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act, or for a violation of, or failure to adhere to, the particular terms and conditions of status in S nonimmigrant classification.
(c)
Removal procedures.
(1) A district director who determines to remove an alien witness or informant in S nonimmigrant classification shall notify the Commissioner, the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, and the relevant law enforcement agency in writing to that effect. The Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, shall concur in or object to that decision. Unless the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, objects within 7 days, he or she shall be deemed to have concurred in the decision. In the event of an objection by the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, the matter will be expeditiously referred to the Deputy Attorney General for a final resolution. In no circumstances shall the alien or the relevant law enforcement agency have a right of appeal from any decision to remove.
(2) A district director who has provided notice as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section and who has been advised by the Commissioner that the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, has not objected shall issue a Warrant of Removal. The alien shall immediately be arrested and taken into custody by the district director initiating the removal. An alien classified under the provisions of section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act who is determined, pursuant to a warrant issued by a district director, to be deportable from the United States shall be removed from the United States to his or her country of nationality or last residence. The agency that requested the alien's presence in the United States shall ensure departure from the United States and so inform the district director in whose jurisdiction the alien has last resided. The district director, if necessary, shall oversee the alien's departure from the United States and, in any event, shall notify the Commissioner of the alien's departure.
(d)
Withholding of removal.
An alien classified pursuant to section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act who applies for withholding of removal shall have 10 days from the date the Warrant of Removal is served upon the alien to file an application for such relief with the district director initiating the removal order. The procedures contained in §§ 208.2 and 208.16 of this chapter shall apply to such an alien who applies for withholding of removal.
(e)
Inadmissibility.
An alien who applies for admission under the provisions of section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act who is determined by an immigration officer not to be eligible for admission under that section or to be inadmissible to the United States under one or more of the grounds of inadmissibility listed in section 212 of the Act and which have not been previously waived by the Commissioner will be taken into custody. The district director having jurisdiction over the port-of-entry shall follow the notification procedures specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. A district director who has provided such notice and who has been advised by the Commissioner that the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, has not objected shall remove the alien without further hearing. An alien may not contest such removal, other than by applying for withholding of removal.
§ 236.5
Fingerprints and photographs.
Every alien 14 years of age or older against whom proceedings based on deportability under section 237 of the Act
are commenced under this part by service of a notice to appear shall be fingerprinted and photographed. Such fingerprints and photographs shall be made available to Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies upon request to the district director or chief patrol agent having jurisdiction over the alien's record. Any such alien, regardless of his or her age, shall be photographed and/or fingerprinted if required by any immigration officer authorized to issue a notice to appear. Every alien 14 years of age or older who is found to be inadmissible to the United States and ordered removed by an immigration judge shall be fingerprinted, unless during the preceding year he or she has been fingerprinted at an American consular office.
§ 236.6
Information regarding detainees.
No person, including any state or local government entity or any privately operated detention facility, that houses, maintains, provides services to, or otherwise holds any detainee on behalf of the Service (whether by contract or otherwise), and no other person who by virtue of any official or contractual relationship with such person obtains information relating to any detainee, shall disclose or otherwise permit to be made public the name of, or other information relating to, such detainee. Such information shall be under the control of the Service and shall be subject to public disclosure only pursuant to the provisions of applicable federal laws, regulations and executive orders. Insofar as any documents or other records contain such information, such documents shall not be public records. This section applies to all persons and information identified or described in it, regardless of when such persons obtained such information, and applies to all requests for public disclosure of such information, including requests that are the subject of proceedings pending as of April 17, 2002.
[67 FR 19511, Apr. 22, 2002]
§§ 236.7-236.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Family Unity Program
§ 236.10
Description of program.
The family unity program implements the provisions of section 301 of the Immigration Act of 1990, Public Law 101-649. This Act is referred to in this subpart as “IMMACT 90”.
§ 236.11
Definitions.
In this subpart, the term:
Eligible immigrant
means a qualified immigrant who is the spouse or unmarried child of a legalized alien.
For purposes of §§ 236.10 to 236.18 only,
Legalized alien
means an alien who:
(1) Is a temporary or permanent resident under section 210 or 245A of the Act;
(2) Is a permanent resident under section 202 of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (Cuban/Haitian Adjustment); or
(3) Is a naturalized U.S. citizen who was a permanent resident under section 210 or 245A of the Act or section 202 of the Immigrant Reform and Control Act of 1986 (IRCA) (Cuban/Haitian Adjustment), and maintained such a status until his or her naturalization.
[62 FR 10360, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 65 FR 43679, July 14, 2000]
§ 236.12
Eligibility.
(a)
General.
An alien who is not a lawful permanent resident is eligible to apply for benefits under the Family Unity Program if he or she establishes:
(1) That he or she entered the United States before May 5, 1988 (in the case of a relationship to a legalized alien described in subsection (b)(2)(B) or (b)(2)(C) of section 301 of IMMACT 90), or as of December 1, 1988 (in the case of a relationship to a legalized alien described in subsection (b)(2)(A) of section 301 of IMMACT 90), and has been continuously residing in the United States since that date; and
(2) That as of May 5, 1988, (in the case of a relationship to a legalized alien described in subsection (b)(2)(B) or (b)(2) (C) of section 301 of IMMACT 90) or as of December 1, 1988, (in the case of a relationship to a legalized alien described in subsection (b)(2) (A) of section 301 of
IMMACT 90), he or she was the spouse or unmarried child of a legalized alien, and that he or she has been eligible continuously since that time for family-sponsored immigrant status under section 203(a) (1), (2), or (3) or as an immediate relative under section 201 (b)(2) of the Act based on the same relationship.
(b)
Legalization application pending as of May 5, 1988 or December 1, 1988.
An alien whose legalization application was filed on or before May 5, 1988 (in the case of a relationship to a legalized alien described in subsection (b)(2)(B) or (b)(2)(C) of section 301 of IMMACT 90), or as of December 1, 1988 (in the case of a relationship to a legalized alien described in subsection (b)(2)(A) of section 301 of IMMACT 90), but not approved until after that date will be treated as having been a legalized alien as of May 5, 1988 (in the case of a relationship to a legalized alien described in subsection (b)(2)(B) or (b)(2)(C) of section 301 of IMMACT 90), or as of December 1, 1988 (in the case of a relationship to a legalized alien described in subsection (b)(2)(A) of section 301 of IMMACT 90), for purposes of the Family Unity Program.
[62 FR 10360, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 65 FR 43679, July 14, 2000]
§ 236.13
Ineligible aliens.
The following categories of aliens are ineligible for benefits under the Family Unity Program:
(a) An alien who is deportable under any paragraph in section 237(a) of the Act, except paragraphs (1)(A), (1)(B), (1)(C), and (3)(A); provided that an alien who is deportable under section 237(a)(1)(A) of such Act is also ineligible for benefits under the Family Unity Program if deportability is based upon a ground of inadmissibility described in section 212(a)(2) or (3) of the Act;
(b) An alien who has been convicted of a felony or three or more misdemeanors in the United States;
(c) An alien described in section 241(b)(3)(B) of the Act; or
(d) An alien who has committed an act of juvenile delinquency (as defined in 18 U.S.C. 5031) which if committed by an adult would be classified as:
(1) A felony crime of violence that has an element the use or attempted use of physical force against another individual; or
(2) A felony offense that by its nature involves a substantial risk that physical force against another individual may be used in the course of committing the offense.
[62 FR 10360, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 65 FR 43680, July 14, 2000]
§ 236.14
Filing.
(a)
General.
A Form I-817, Application for Family Unity Benefits, must be filed with the correct fee required in 8 CFR 106.2 and the required supporting documentation. A separate application with appropriate fee and documentation must be filed for each person claiming eligibility.
(b)
Decision.
The service center director has sole jurisdiction to adjudicate an application for benefits under the Family Unity Program. The director will provide the applicant with specific reasons for any decision to deny an application. Denial of an application may not be appealed. An applicant who believes that the grounds for denial have been overcome may submit another application with the appropriate fee and documentation.
(c)
Referral of denied cases for consideration of issuance of notice to appear.
If an application is denied, the case will be referred to the district director with jurisdiction over the alien's place of residence for consideration of whether to issue a notice to appear. After an initial denial, an applicant's case will not be referred for issuance of a notice to appear until 90 days from the date of the initial denial, to allow the alien the opportunity to file a new Form I-817 application in order to attempt to overcome the basis of the denial. However, if the applicant is found not to be eligible for benefits under § 236.13(b), the Service reserves the right to issue a notice to appear at any time after the initial denial.
[62 FR 10360, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 65 FR 43680, July 14, 2000; 66 FR 29672, June 1, 2001; 74 FR 26939, June 5, 2009; 85 FR 46926, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 236.15
Voluntary departure and eligibility for employment.
(a)
Authority.
Voluntary departure under this section implements the provisions of section 301 of IMMACT 90, and authority to grant voluntary departure under the family unity program derives solely from that section. Voluntary departure under the family unity program shall be governed solely by this section, notwithstanding the provisions of section 240B of the Act and 8 CFR part 240.
(b)
Children of legalized aliens.
Children of legalized aliens residing in the United States, who were born during an authorized absence from the United States of mothers who are currently residing in the United States under voluntary departure pursuant to the Family Unity Program, may be granted voluntary departure under section 301 of IMMACT 90 for a period of 2 years.
(c)
Duration of voluntary departure.
An alien whose application for benefits under the Family Unity Program is approved will receive voluntary departure for 2 years, commencing with the date of approval of the application. Voluntary departure under this section shall be considered effective from the date on which the application was properly filed.
(d)
Employment authorization.
An alien granted benefits under the Family Unity Program is authorized to be employed in the United States and will receive an employment authorization document. The validity period of the employment authorization document will coincide with the period of voluntary departure.
(e)
Extension of voluntary departure.
An application for an extension of voluntary departure under the Family Unity Program must be filed by the alien on Form I-817 along with the correct fee required in 8 CFR 106.2 and the required supporting documentation. The submission of a copy of the previous approval notice will assist in shortening the processing time. An extension may be granted if the alien continues to be eligible for benefits under the Family Unity Program. However, an extension may not be approved if the legalized alien is a lawful permanent resident, or a naturalized U.S. citizen who was a lawful permanent resident under section 210 or 245A of the Act or section 202 of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (IRCA), Pub. L. 66-903, and maintained such status until his or her naturalization, and a petition for family-sponsored immigrant status has not been filed on behalf of the applicant. In such case, the Service will notify the alien of the reason for the denial and afford him or her the opportunity to file another Form I-817 once the petition, Form I-130, has been filed on his or her behalf. No charging document will be issued for a period of 90 days from the date of the denial.
(f)
Supporting documentation for extension application.
Supporting documentation need not include documentation provided with the previous application(s). The extension application should only include changes to previous applications and evidence of continuing eligibility since the date of prior approval.
[62 FR 10360, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 65 FR 43680, July 14, 2000; 85 FR 46926, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 236.16
Travel outside the United States.
An alien granted Family Unity Program benefits who intends to travel outside the United States temporarily must apply for advance authorization in accordance with 8 CFR 223.2(a). The authority to grant an application for advance authorization for an alien granted Family Unity Program benefits rests solely with USCIS. An alien who is granted advance authorization and returns to the United States in accordance with such authorization, and who is found not to be inadmissible under section 212(a)(2) or (3) of the Act, shall be inspected and admitted in the same immigration status as the alien had at the time of departure, and shall be provided the remainder of the voluntary departure period previously granted under the Family Unity Program.
[62 FR 10360, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 76 FR 53790, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 236.17
Eligibility for Federal financial assistance programs.
An alien granted Family Unity Program benefits based on a relationship to a legalized alien as defined in § 236.11 is ineligible for public welfare assistance in the same manner and for the same period as the legalized alien who is ineligible for such assistance under section 245A(h) or 210(f) of the Act, respectively.
§ 236.18
Termination of Family Unity Program benefits.
(a)
Grounds for termination.
The Service may terminate benefits under the Family Unity Program whenever the necessity for the termination comes to the attention of the Service. Such grounds will exist in situations including, but not limited to, those in which:
(1) A determination is made that Family Unity Program benefits were acquired as the result of fraud or willful misrepresentation of a material fact;
(2) The beneficiary commits an act or acts which render him or her inadmissible as an immigrant ineligible for benefits under the Family Unity Program;
(3) The legalized alien upon whose status benefits under the Family Unity Program were based loses his or her legalized status;
(4) The beneficiary is the subject of a final order of exclusion, deportation, or removal issued subsequent to the grant of Family Unity benefits unless such final order is based on entry without inspection; violation of status; or failure to comply with section 265 of the Act; or inadmissibility at the time of entry other than inadmissibility pursuant to section 212(a)(2) or 212(a)(3) of the Act, regardless of whether the facts giving rise to such ground occurred before or after the benefits were granted; or
(5) A qualifying relationship to a legalized alien no longer exists.
(b)
Notice procedure.
Notice of intent to terminate and of the grounds thereof shall be served pursuant to the provisions of 8 CFR 103.8(a)(2). The alien shall be given 30 days to respond to the notice and may submit to the Service additional evidence in rebuttal. Any final decision of termination shall also be served pursuant to the provisions of 8 CFR 103.8(a)(2). Nothing in this section shall preclude the Service from commencing exclusion or deportation proceedings prior to termination of Family Unity Program benefits.
(c)
Effect of termination.
Termination of benefits under the Family Unity Program, other than as a result of a final order of removal, shall render the alien amenable to removal proceedings under section 240 of the Act. If benefits are terminated, the period of voluntary departure under this section is also terminated.
[62 FR 10360, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 65 FR 43680, July 14, 2000; 76 FR 53791, Aug. 29, 2011]

# Subpart C—Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals

# Source:
87 FR 53297, Aug. 30, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 236.21
Applicability.
(a) This subpart applies to requests for deferred action under the enforcement discretion policy set forth in this subpart, which will be described as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA). This subpart does not apply to or govern any other request for or grant of deferred action or any other DHS deferred action policy.
(b) Except as specifically provided in this subpart, the provisions of 8 CFR part 103 do not apply to requests filed under this subpart.
(c)(1) Deferred action is an exercise of the Secretary's broad authority to establish national immigration enforcement policies and priorities under 6 U.S.C. 202(5) and section 103 of the Act. It is a form of enforcement discretion not to pursue the removal of certain aliens for a limited period in the interest of ordering enforcement priorities in light of limitations on available resources, taking into account humanitarian considerations and administrative convenience. It furthers the administrability of the complex immigration system by permitting the Secretary to focus enforcement on higher priority targets. This temporary forbearance from removal does not confer any right or entitlement to remain in
or reenter the United States. A grant of deferred action under this section does not preclude DHS from commencing removal proceedings at any time or prohibit DHS or any other Federal agency from initiating any criminal or other enforcement action at any time.
(2) During this period of forbearance, on the basis of this subpart only, USCIS may grant employment authorization pursuant to 8 CFR 274a.13 and 274a.12(c)(33) to DACA recipients who have demonstrated an economic need.
(3) During this period of forbearance, on the basis of this subpart only, a DACA recipient is considered “lawfully present” under the provisions of 8 CFR 1.3(a)(4)(vi).
(4) During this period of forbearance, on the basis of this subpart only, a DACA recipient is not considered “unlawfully present” for the purpose of inadmissibility under section 212(a)(9) of the Act.
(d) This subpart rescinds and replaces the DACA guidance set forth in the Memorandum issued by the Secretary of Homeland Security on June 15, 2012. All current grants of deferred action and any ancillary features previously issued pursuant to the Memorandum remain in effect and will expire according to their existing terms. All such current grants of deferred action and any ancillary features, as well as any requests for renewals of those grants and new requests, are hereafter governed by this subpart and not the Memorandum.
§ 236.22
Discretionary determination.
(a)
Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals; in general.
(1) USCIS may consider requests for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals submitted by aliens described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) A pending request for deferred action under this section does not authorize or confer any interim immigration benefits such as employment authorization or advance parole.
(3) Subject to paragraph (c) of this section, the requestor bears the burden of demonstrating by a preponderance of the evidence that he or she meets the threshold criteria described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Threshold criteria.
Subject to paragraph (c) of this section, a request for deferred action under this section may be granted only if USCIS determines in its sole discretion that the requestor meets each of the following threshold criteria and merits a favorable exercise of discretion:
(1)
Came to the United States under the age of 16.
The requestor must demonstrate that he or she first resided in the United States before his or her sixteenth birthday.
(2)
Continuous residence in the United States from June 15, 2007, to the time of filing of the request.
The requestor also must demonstrate that he or she has been residing in the United States continuously from June 15, 2007, to the time of filing of the request. As used in this section, “residence” means the principal, actual dwelling place in fact, without regard to intent, and specifically the country of the actual dwelling place. Brief, casual, and innocent absences from the United States will not break the continuity of one's residence. However, unauthorized travel outside of the United States on or after August 15, 2012, will interrupt continuous residence, regardless of whether it was otherwise brief, casual, and innocent. An absence will be considered brief, casual, and innocent if it occurred before August 15, 2012, and—
(i) The absence was short and reasonably calculated to accomplish the purpose for the absence;
(ii) The absence was not because of a post-June 15, 2007 order of exclusion, deportation, or removal;
(iii) The absence was not because of a post-June 15, 2007 order of voluntary departure, or an administrative grant of voluntary departure before the requestor was placed in exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings; and
(iv) The purpose of the trip, and the requestor's actions while outside the United States, were not contrary to law.
(3)
Physical presence in the United States.
The requestor must demonstrate that he or she was physically present in the United States both on June 15, 2012, and at the time of filing of the request for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals under this section.
(4)
Lack of lawful immigration status.
Both on June 15, 2012, and at the time of filing of the request for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals under this section, the requestor must not have been in a lawful immigration status. If the requestor was in lawful immigration status at any time before June 15, 2012, or at any time after June 15, 2012, and before the submission date of the request, he or she must submit evidence that that lawful status had expired or otherwise terminated prior to those dates.
(5)
Education or veteran status.
The requestor must currently be enrolled in school, have graduated or obtained a certificate of completion from high school, have obtained a General Educational Development certificate, or be an honorably discharged veteran of the United States Coast Guard or Armed Forces of the United States.
(6)
Criminal history, public safety, and national security.
The requestor must not have been convicted (as defined in section 101(a)(48) of the Act and as demonstrated by any of the documents or records listed in § 1003.41 of this chapter) of a felony, a misdemeanor described in this paragraph (b)(6), or three or more other misdemeanors not occurring on the same date and not arising out of the same act, omission, or scheme of misconduct, or otherwise pose a threat to national security or public safety. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(6) only, expunged convictions, juvenile delinquency adjudications, and convictions under State (including U.S. territory) laws for immigration-related offenses are not considered disqualifying convictions. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(6) only, a single misdemeanor is disqualifying if it is a misdemeanor as defined by Federal law (specifically, one for which the maximum term of imprisonment authorized is 1 year or less but greater than 5 days) and that meets the following criteria:
(i) Regardless of the sentence imposed, is an offense of domestic violence, sexual abuse or exploitation, burglary, unlawful possession or use of a firearm, drug distribution or trafficking, or driving under the influence; or
(ii) If not an offense listed above, is one for which the individual was sentenced to time in custody of more than 90 days. The sentence must involve time to be served in custody and, therefore, does not include a suspended sentence.
(7)
Age at time of request.
The requestor must have been born on or after June 16, 1981. Additionally, the requestor must be at least 15 years of age at the time of filing his or her request, unless, at the time of his or her request, he or she is in removal proceedings, has a final order of removal, or has a voluntary departure order.
(c)
Final discretionary determination.
Deferred action requests submitted under this section are determined on a case-by-case basis. Even if the threshold criteria in paragraph (b) are all found to have been met, USCIS retains the discretion to assess the individual's circumstances and to determine that any factor specific to that individual makes deferred action inappropriate.
§ 236.23
Procedures for request, terminations, and restrictions on information use.
(a)
General.
(1) A request for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals must be filed in the manner and on the form designated by USCIS, with the required fee, including any biometrics required by 8 CFR 103.16. A request for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals must also contain a request for employment authorization filed pursuant to 8 CFR 274a.12(c)(33) and 274a.13.
(2) All requests for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, including any requests made by aliens in removal proceedings before EOIR, must be filed with USCIS. USCIS has exclusive jurisdiction to consider requests for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. EOIR shall have no jurisdiction to consider requests for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals or to review USCIS approvals or denials of such requests. A voluntary departure order or a final order of exclusion, deportation, or removal is not a bar to requesting Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. An alien who is in removal proceedings may request Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals regardless of whether
those proceedings have been administratively closed. An alien who is in immigration detention may request Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals but may not be approved for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals unless the alien is released from detention by ICE prior to USCIS' decision on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals request.
(3) USCIS may request additional evidence from the requestor, including, but not limited to, by notice, interview, or other appearance of the requestor. USCIS may deny a request for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals without prior issuance of a request for evidence or notice of intent to deny.
(4) A grant of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals will be provided for an initial or renewal period of 2 years, subject to DHS's discretion. Related work authorization granted pursuant to 8 CFR 274a.12(c)(33), if approved in DHS's discretion, will be issued, subject to DHS's discretion, for the period of the associated grant of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals.
(b)
Consideration of a request for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals.
In considering requests for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, USCIS may consult, as it deems appropriate in its discretion and without notice to the requestor, with any other component or office of DHS, including ICE and CBP, any other Federal agency, or any State or local law enforcement agency, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(c)
Notice of decision.
(1) USCIS will notify the requestor and, if applicable, the requestor's attorney of record or accredited representative of the decision in writing. Denial of a request for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals does not bar a requestor from applying for any benefit or form of relief under the immigration laws or requesting any other form of prosecutorial discretion, including another request for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals.
(2) If USCIS denies a request for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals under this section, USCIS will not issue a Notice to Appear or refer a requestor's case to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement for possible enforcement action based on such denial unless USCIS determines that the case involves denial for fraud, a threat to national security, or public safety concerns.
(3) There is no administrative appeal from a denial of a request for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. The alien may not file, pursuant to 8 CFR 103.5 or otherwise, a motion to reopen or reconsider a denial of a request for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals.
(d)
Termination
—(1)
Discretionary termination.
USCIS may terminate a grant of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals at any time in its discretion. USCIS will provide a Notice of Intent to Terminate and an opportunity to respond prior to terminating a grant of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, except USCIS may terminate a grant of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals without a Notice of Intent to Terminate and an opportunity to respond if the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals recipient is convicted of a national security-related offense involving conduct described in 8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(3)(B)(iii), (iv), or 1227(a)(4)(A)(i), or an egregious public safety offense. If USCIS terminates a grant of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals without a Notice of Intent to Terminate and an opportunity to respond, USCIS will provide the individual with notice of the termination.
(2)
Departure without advance parole and reentry without inspection.
USCIS may terminate a grant of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, in its discretion and following issuance of a Notice of Intent to Terminate with an opportunity to respond, for DACA recipients who depart from the United States without first obtaining an advance parole document and subsequently enter the United States without inspection.
(3)
Automatic termination of employment authorization.
Any grant of employment authorization pursuant to § 274a.12(c)(33) of this chapter will automatically terminate upon termination of a grant of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, rather than in accordance with § 274a.14(a)(1)(ii) of this chapter. Notice of intent to revoke employment authorization is not required pursuant to § 274a.14(a)(2) of this chapter.
(e)
Restrictions on information use.
(1) Information contained in a request for
Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals related to the requestor will not be used by DHS for the purpose of initiating immigration enforcement proceedings against such requestor, unless DHS is initiating immigration enforcement proceedings against the requestor due to a criminal offense, fraud, a threat to national security, or public safety concerns.
(2) Information contained in a request for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals related to the requestor's family members or guardians will not be used for immigration enforcement purposes against such family members or guardians.
§ 236.24
Severability.
(a) Any provision of this subpart held to be invalid or unenforceable as applied to any person or circumstance shall be construed so as to continue to give the maximum effect to the provision permitted by law, including as applied to persons not similarly situated or to dissimilar circumstances, unless such holding is that the provision of this subpart is invalid and unenforceable in all circumstances, in which event the provision shall be severable from the remainder of this subpart and shall not affect the remainder thereof.
(b) The provisions in § 236.21(c)(2) through (4) and § 274a.12(c)(14) and 274a.12(c)(33) are intended to be severable from one another, from this subpart and any grant of forbearance from removal resulting from this subpart, and from any provision referenced in those paragraphs, including such referenced provision's application to persons with deferred action generally.
§ 236.25
No private rights.
This subpart is an exercise of the Secretary's enforcement discretion. This subpart—
(a) Is not intended to and does not supplant or limit otherwise lawful activities of the Department or the Secretary; and
(b) Is not intended to and does not create any rights, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by any party in any matter, civil or criminal.
PART 237 [RESERVED]
Pt. 238

# PART 238—EXPEDITED REMOVAL OF AGGRAVATED FELONS

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1228; 8 CFR part 2.
§ 238.1
Proceedings under section 238(b) of the Act.
(a)
Definitions.
As used in this part the term:
Deciding Service officer
means a district director, chief patrol agent, or another immigration officer designated by a district director, chief patrol agent, the Deputy Executive Associate Commissioner for Detention and Removal, or the Director of the Office of Juvenile Affairs, so long as that person is not the same person as the Issuing Service Officer.
Issuing Service officer
means any Service officer listed in § 239.1 of this chapter as authorized to issue notices to appear.
(b)
Preliminary consideration and Notice of Intent to Issue a Final Administrative Deportation Order; commencement of proceedings
—(1)
Basis of Service charge.
An issuing Service officer shall cause to be served upon an alien a Form I-851, Notice of Intent to Issue a Final Administrative Deportation Order (Notice of Intent), if the officer is satisfied that there is sufficient evidence, based upon questioning of the alien by an immigration officer and upon any other evidence obtained, to support a finding that the individual:
(i) Is an alien;
(ii) Has not been lawfully admitted for permanent residence, or has conditional permanent resident status under section 216 of the Act;
(iii) Has been convicted (as defined in section 101(a)(48) of the Act and as demonstrated by any of the documents or records listed in § 1003.41 of this chapter) of an aggravated felony and such conviction has become final; and
(iv) Is deportable under section 237(a)(2)(A)(iii) of the Act, including an alien who has neither been admitted nor paroled, but who is conclusively presumed deportable under section 237(a)(2)(A)(iii) by operation of section 238(c) of the Act (“Presumption of Deportability”).
(2)
Notice.
(i) Removal proceedings under section 238(b) of the Act shall
commence upon personal service of the Notice of Intent upon the alien, as prescribed by8 CFR 103.8. The Notice of Intent shall set forth the preliminary determinations and inform the alien of the Service's intent to issue a Form I-851A, Final Administrative Removal Order, without a hearing before an immigration judge. The Notice of Intent shall constitute the charging document. The Notice of Intent shall include allegations of fact and conclusions of law. It shall advise that the alien: has the privilege of being represented, at no expense to the government, by counsel of the alien's choosing, as long as counsel is authorized to practice in removal proceedings; may request withholding of removal to a particular country if he or she fears persecution or torture in that country; may inspect the evidence supporting the Notice of Intent; may rebut the charges within 10 calendar days after service of such Notice (or 13 calendar days if service of the Notice was by mail).
(ii) The Notice of Intent also shall advise the alien that he or she may designate in writing, within the rebuttal period, the country to which he or she chooses to be deported in accordance with section 241 of the Act, in the event that a Final Administrative Removal Order is issued, and that the Service will honor such designation only to the extent permitted under the terms, limitations, and conditions of section 241 of the Act.
(iii) The Service must determine that the person served with the Notice of Intent is the person named on the notice.
(iv) The Service shall provide the alien with a list of available free legal services programs qualified under 8 CFR part 3 and organizations recognized pursuant to 8 CFR part 292, located within the district or sector where the Notice of Intent is issued.
(v) The Service must either provide the alien with a written translation of the Notice of Intent or explain the contents of the Notice of Intent to the alien in the alien's native language or in a language that the alien understands.
(c)
Alien's response
—(1)
Time for response.
The alien will have 10 calendar days from service of the Notice of Intent or 13 calendar days if service is by mail, to file a response to the Notice of Intent. In the response, the alien may: designate his or her choice of country for removal; submit a written response rebutting the allegations supporting the charge and/or requesting the opportunity to review the Government's evidence; and/or submit a statement indicating an intention to request withholding of removal under 8 CFR 208.16 of this chapter, and/or request in writing an extension of time for response, stating the specific reasons why such an extension is necessary.
(2)
Nature of rebuttal or request to review evidence.
(i) If an alien chooses to rebut the allegations contained in the Notice of Intent, the alien's written response must indicate which finding(s) are being challenged and should be accompanied by affidavit(s), documentary information, or other specific evidence supporting the challenge.
(ii) If an alien's written response requests the opportunity to review the Government's evidence, the Service shall serve the alien with a copy of the evidence in the record of proceeding upon which the Service is relying to support the charge. The alien may, within 10 calendar days following service of the Government's evidence (13 calendar days if service is by mail), furnish a final response in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section. If the alien's final response is a rebuttal of the allegations, such a final response should be accompanied by affidavit(s), documentary information, or other specific evidence supporting the challenge.
(d)
Determination by deciding Service officer
—(1)
No response submitted or concession of deportability.
If the deciding Service officer does not receive a timely response and the evidence in the record of proceeding establishes deportability by clear, convincing, and unequivocal evidence, or if the alien concedes deportability, then the deciding Service officer shall issue and cause to be served upon the alien a Final Administrative Removal Order
that states the reasons for the deportation decision. The alien may, in writing, waive the 14-day waiting period before execution of the final order of removal provided in a paragraph (f) of this section.
(2)
Response submitted
—(i)
Insufficient rebuttal; no genuine issue of material fact.
If the alien timely submits a rebuttal to the allegations, but the deciding Service officer finds that deportability is established by clear, convincing, and unequivocal evidence in the record of proceeding, the deciding Service officer shall issue and cause to be served upon the alien a Final Administrative Removal Order that states the reasons for the decision of deportability.
(ii)
Additional evidence required.
(A) If the deciding Service officer finds that the record of proceeding, including the alien's timely rebuttal, raises a genuine issue of material fact regarding the preliminary findings, the deciding Service officer may either obtain additional evidence from any source, including the alien, or cause to be issued a notice to appear to initiate removal proceedings under section 240 of the Act. The deciding Service officer may also obtain additional evidence from any source, including the alien, if the deciding Service officer deems that such additional evidence may aid the officer in the rendering of a decision.
(B) If the deciding Service officer considers additional evidence from a source other than the alien, that evidence shall be made a part of the record of proceeding, and shall be provided to the alien. If the alien elects to submit a response to such additional evidence, such response must be filed with the Service within 10 calendar days of service of the additional evidence (or 13 calendar days if service is by mail). If the deciding Service officer finds, after considering all additional evidence, that deportability is established by clear, convincing, and unequivocal evidence in the record of proceeding, the deciding Service officer shall issue and cause to be served upon the alien a Final Administrative Removal Order that states the reasons for the decision of deportability.
(iii)
Conversion to proceedings under section 240 of the Act.
If the deciding Service officer finds that the alien is not amenable to removal under section 238 of the Act, the deciding Service officer shall terminate the expedited proceedings under section 238 of the Act and shall, where appropriate, cause to be issued a notice to appear for the purpose of initiating removal proceedings before an immigration judge under section 240 of the Act.
(3)
Termination of proceedings by deciding Service officer.
Only the deciding Service officer may terminate proceedings under section 238 of the Act, in accordance with this section.
(e)
Proceedings commenced under section 240 of the Act.
In any proceeding commenced under section 240 of the Act which is based on deportability under section 237 of the Act, if it appears that the respondent alien is subject to removal pursuant to section 238 of the Act, the immigration judge may, upon the Service's request, terminate the case and, upon such termination, the Service may commence administrative proceedings under section 238 of the Act. However, in the absence of any such request, the immigration judge shall complete the proceeding commenced under section 240 of the Act.
(f)
Executing final removal order of deciding Service officer
—(1)
Time of execution.
Upon the issuance of a Final Administrative Removal Order, the Service shall issue a Warrant of Removal in accordance with § 241.2 of this chapter; such warrant shall be executed no sooner than 14 calendar days after the date the Final Administrative Removal Order is issued, unless the alien knowingly, voluntarily, and in writing waives the 14-day period.
(2)
Country to which alien is to be removed.
The deciding Service officer shall designate the country of removal in the manner prescribed by section 241 of the Act.
(3)
Withholding of removal.
If the alien has requested withholding of removal under § 208.16 of this chapter, the deciding officer shall, upon issuance of a Final Administrative Removal Order, immediately refer the alien's case to an asylum officer to conduct a reasonable fear determination in accordance with § 208.31 of this chapter.
(g)
Arrest and detention.
At the time of issuance of a Notice of Intent or at
any time thereafter and up to the time the alien becomes the subject of a Warrant of Removal, the alien may be arrested and taken into custody under the authority of a Warrant of Arrest issued by an officer listed in § 287.5(e)(2) of this chapter. The decision of the Service concerning custody or bond shall not be administratively appealable during proceedings initiated under section 238 of the Act and this part.
(h)
Record of proceeding.
The Service shall maintain a record of proceeding for judicial review of the Final Administrative Removal Order sought by any petition for review. The record of proceeding shall include, but not necessarily be limited to: the charging document (Notice of Intent); the Final Administrative Removal Order (including any supplemental memorandum of decision); the alien's response, if any; all evidence in support of the charge; and any admissible evidence, briefs, or documents submitted by either party respecting deportability. The executed duplicate of the Notice of Intent in the record of proceedings shall be retained as evidence that the individual upon whom the notice for the proceeding was served was, in fact, the alien named in the notice.
[62 FR 10365, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 8494, Feb. 19, 1999; 67 FR 39258, June 7, 2002; 76 FR 53791, Aug. 29, 2011; 81 FR 62355, Sept. 9, 2016]
Pt. 239

# PART 239—INITIATION OF REMOVAL PROCEEDINGS
Sec.
239.1
Notice to appear.
239.2
Cancellation of notice to appear.
239.3
Effect of filing notice to appear.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1221, 1229; Homeland Security Act of 2002, Public Law 107-296; 8 CFR part 2.

# Source:
62 FR 10366, Mar. 6, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 239.1
Notice to appear.
(a)
Issuance of notice to appear.
Any immigration officer, or supervisor thereof, performing an inspection of an arriving alien at a port-of-entry may issue a notice to appear to such alien. In addition, the following officers, or officers acting in such capacity, may issue a notice to appear:
(1) District directors (except foreign);
(2) Deputy district directors (except foreign);
(3) Chief patrol agents;
(4) Deputy chief patrol agents;
(5) Division chiefs;
(6) Assistant chief patrol agents;
(7) Patrol agents in charge;
(8) Deputy patrol agents in charge;
(9) Border patrol watch commanders;
(10) Special operations supervisors;
(11) Supervisory border patrol agents;
(12) Directors of air operations;
(13) Directors of marine operations;
(14) Supervisory air and marine interdiction agents;
(15) Service center directors;
(16) Deputy service center directors;
(17) Assistant service center directors for examinations;
(18) Supervisory immigration services officers;
(19) Supervisory immigration officers;
(20) Supervisory asylum officers;
(21) Officers in charge (except foreign);
(22) Assistant officers in charge (except foreign);
(23) Special agents in charge;
(24) Deputy special agents in charge;
(25) Associate special agents in charge;
(26) Assistant special agents in charge;
(27) Resident agents in charge;
(28) Supervisory special agents;
(29) Directors of investigations;
(30) District directors for interior enforcement;
(31) Deputy or assistant district directors for interior enforcement;
(32) Director of enforcement and removal operations;
(33) Field office directors;
(34) Deputy field office directors;
(35) Supervisory deportation officers;
(36) Supervisory detention and deportation officers;
(37) Directors or officers in charge of detention facilities;
(38) Directors of field operations;
(39) Assistant directors of field operations;
(40) Port directors;
(41) Assistant port directors;
(42) Field operations watch commanders;
(43) Field operations chiefs;
(44) Unit Chief, Law Enforcement Support Center;
(45) Section Chief, Law Enforcement Support Center; or
(46) Other duly authorized officers or employees of the Department of Homeland Security or of the United States who are delegated the authority as provided by 8 CFR 2.1 to issue notices to appear, and who have successfully completed any required immigration law enforcement training.
(b)
Service of notice to appear.
Service of the notice to appear shall be in accordance with section 239 of the Act.
[68 FR 35275, June 13, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 67089, Nov. 4, 2005; 81 FR 62355, Sept. 9, 2016]
§ 239.2
Cancellation of notice to appear.
(a) Any officer authorized by § 239.1(a) to issue a notice to appear may cancel such notice prior to jurisdiction vesting with the immigration judge pursuant to § 3.14 of this chapter provided the officer is satisfied that:
(1) The respondent is a national of the United States;
(2) The respondent is not deportable or inadmissible under immigration laws;
(3) The respondent is deceased;
(4) The respondent is not in the United States;
(5) The notice was issued for the respondent's failure to file a timely petition as required by section 216(c) of the Act, but his or her failure to file a timely petition was excused in accordance with section 216(d)(2)(B) of the Act;
(6) The notice to appear was improvidently issued, or
(7) Circumstances of the case have changed after the notice to appear was issued to such an extent that continuation is no longer in the best interest of the government.
(b) A notice to appear issued pursuant to section 235(b)(3) of the Act may be canceled under provisions in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(6) of this section only by the issuing officer, unless it is impracticable for the issuing officer to cancel the notice.
(c)
Motion to dismiss.
After commencement of proceedings pursuant to 8 CFR 1003.14, ICE counsel, or any officer enumerated in paragraph (a) of this section, may move for dismissal of the matter on the grounds set out under paragraph (a) of this section.
(d)
Motion for remand.
After commencement of the hearing, ICE counsel, or any officer enumerated in paragraph (a) of this section may move for remand of the matter to district jurisdiction on the ground that the foreign relations of the United States are involved and require further consideration.
(e)
Warrant of arrest.
When a notice to appear is canceled or proceedings are terminated under this section any outstanding warrant of arrest is canceled.
[62 FR 10366, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 68 FR 35276, June 13, 2003]
§ 239.3
Effect of filing notice to appear.
The filing of a notice to appear shall have no effect in determining periods of unlawful presence as defined in section 212(a)(9)(B) of the Act.
Pt. 240

# PART 240—VOLUNTARY DEPARTURE, SUSPENSION OF DEPORTATION AND SPECIAL RULE CANCELLATION OF REMOVAL
Subpart A—Removal Proceedings [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Cancellation of Removal
Sec.
240.21
Suspension of deportation and adjustment of status under section 244(a) of the Act (as in effect before April 1, 1997) and cancellation of removal and adjustment of status under section 240A(b) of the Act for certain nonpermanent residents.

# Subpart C—Voluntary Departure
240.25
Voluntary departure—authority of the Service.
Subpart D—Exclusion of Aliens (for Proceedings Commenced Prior to April 1, 1997) [Reserved]
Subpart E—Proceedings To Determine Deportability of Aliens in the United States: Hearing and Appeal (for Proceedings Commenced Prior to April 1, 1997) [Reserved]
Subpart F—Suspension of Deportation and Voluntary Departure (for Proceedings
Commenced Prior to April 1, 1997) [Reserved]
Subpart G—Civil Penalties for Failure To Depart [Reserved]

# Subpart H—Applications for Suspension of Deportation or Special Rule Cancellation of Removal Under Section 203 of Pub. L. 105-100
240.60
Definitions.
240.61
Applicability.
240.62
Jurisdiction.
240.63
Application process.
240.64
Eligibility—general.
240.65
Eligibility for suspension of deportation.
240.66
Eligibility for special rule cancellation of removal.
240.67
Procedure for interview before an asylum officer.
240.68
Failure to appear at an interview before an asylum officer or failure to follow requirements for fingerprinting.
240.69
Reliance on information compiled by other sources.
240.70
Decision by the Service.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103; 1182, 1186a, 1224, 1225, 1226, 1227, 1251, 1252 note, 1252a, 1252b, 1362; secs. 202 and 203, Pub. L. 105-100 (111 Stat. 2160, 2193); sec. 902, Pub. L. 105-277 (112 Stat. 2681); 8 CFR part 2.

# Source:
62 FR 10367, Mar. 6, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
Subpart A—Removal Proceedings [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Cancellation of Removal
§ 240.21
Suspension of deportation and adjustment of status under section 244(a) of the Act (as in effect before April 1, 1997) and cancellation of removal and adjustment of status under section 240A(b) of the Act for certain nonpermanent residents.
(a)
Applicability of annual cap on suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal.
(1) As used in this section, the term
cap
means the numerical limitation of 4,000 grants of suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal in any fiscal year (except fiscal year 1998, which has a limitation of 8,000 grants) pursuant to section 240A(e) of the Act.
(2) The provisions of this section apply to grants of suspension of deportation pursuant to section 244(a) of the Act (as in effect before April 1, 1997) or cancellation of removal pursuant to section 240A(b) of the Act that are subject to a numerical limitation in section 240A(e) of the Act for any fiscal year. This section does not apply to grants of suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal to aliens described in section 309(c)(5)(C)(i) of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act (IIRIRA), as amended by section 203(a)(1) of the Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act (NACARA), or aliens in deportation proceedings prior to April 1, 1997, who apply for suspension of deportation pursuant to section 244(a)(3) of the Act (as in effect prior to April 1, 1997). The Immigration Court and the Board shall no longer issue conditional grants of suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal as provided in 8 CFR 240.21 (as in effect prior to September 30, 1998).
(b)
Conditional grants of suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal in fiscal year 1998 cases
—(1)
Conversion to grants.
Except with respect to cases described in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, EOIR shall grant suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal without condition prior to October 1, 1998, to the first 8,000 aliens given conditional grants of suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal (as determined by the date of the immigration judge's order or, if the order was appealed to the Board, the date such order was entered by the Board.)
(2)
Treatment of certain nationals of Nicaragua and Cuba who received conditional grants of suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal on or before September 30, 1998
—(i)
NACARA adjustment request.
An application for suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal filed by a national of Nicaragua or Cuba that was granted on a conditional basis on or before September 30, 1998, shall be deemed to be a request for adjustment of status pursuant to section 202 of NACARA (“NACARA adjustment”) for the period starting September 30, 1998 and ending December 31, 1998. The Service shall provide the applicant with notice of the date, time, and place at which the applicant must appear before a Service officer to perfect the request for
NACARA adjustment. Such notice shall include an attestation form, Attestation of Alien and Memorandum of Creation of Record of Lawful Permanent Residence, Form I-895, regarding the applicant's eligibility for NACARA adjustment.
(ii)
Submission of documentation.
To perfect the request for NACARA adjustment, the applicant must appear before a Service officer on the date scheduled with the following documentation:
(A) The order granting suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal on a conditional basis issued on or before September 30, 1998;
(B) A completed, but unsigned Form I-895, which the applicant shall be required to sign and to attest to the veracity of the information contained therein in the presence of a Service officer;
(C) Any applicable applications for waiver of inadmissibility; and
(D) Two “ADIT-style” photographs; meeting the specifications in the instructions attached to Form I-895.
(iii)
Waiver of documentation and fees.
The provisions of § 245.13(e) and (f) of this chapter relating to documentary requirements for NACARA adjustment are waived with respect to an alien seeking to perfect a request for adjustment of status pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section. In addition, the fees for the NACARA adjustment and for any applications for waivers of inadmissibility submitted in conjunction with perfecting a request for NACARA adjustment shall be waived.
(iv)
NACARA adjustment determination.
In determining an applicant's eligibility for NACARA adjustment under the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, unless the Service officer before whom the applicant appears is not satisfied that the applicant is admissible to the United States in accordance with section 202(a)(1)(B) of NACARA, and has continuously resided in the United States from December 1, 1995, through the date of appearance before the Service officer (not counting an absence or absences from the United States totaling 180 days or less or any absences that occurred pursuant to advance authorization for parole (Form I-512 issued by the Service)), the Service officer shall accept an alien's attestation of admissibility and/or continuous physical presence as sufficient evidence that the applicant has met the admissibility and/or continuous physical presence requirement for NACARA adjustment. If the Service officer grants NACARA adjustment, then the Service officer shall create a record of lawful permanent residence and the prior order granting suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal on a conditional basis shall be automatically vacated and the deportation or removal proceedings shall be automatically terminated. The Service officer (whose decision in this regard is not subject to appeal) shall not adjust the applicant to lawful permanent resident status pursuant to section 202 of NACARA if:
(A) The Service officer is not satisfied that the applicant is eligible for NACARA adjustment and so indicates on the attestation form; or
(B) The applicant indicates on the attestation form that he or she does not wish to receive NACARA adjustment.
(v)
Automatic conversion.
If the Service officer does not adjust the applicant to lawful permanent resident status pursuant to section 202 of NACARA, the applicant's conditional grant of suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal shall be automatically converted to a grant of suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal. Upon such a conversion, the Service shall create a record of lawful permanent residence based upon the grant of suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal.
(vi)
Failure to appear.
An alien who fails to appear to perfect his or her request for NACARA adjustment shall have his or her conditional grant of suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal automatically converted by the Immigration Court or the Board to a grant of suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal effective December 31, 1998.
(3)
Conditional grants not converted in fiscal year 1998.
The provisions of paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section for granting relief shall not apply with respect to:
(i) Any case in which a conditional grant of suspension of deportation or
cancellation of removal is pending on appeal before the Board as of September 30, 1998 or, if the right to appeal to the Board has not been waived, the time for an appeal has not expired. After the Board issues its decision or the time for appeal has expired, the conditional grant shall be converted to a grant when a grant is available.
(ii) Any other conditional grant not described in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2) or (b)(3)(i) of this section, which was not converted to a grant in fiscal year 1998. Such a conditional grant shall be converted to a grant when a grant is available.
(4)
Motion to reopen.
The Service may file a motion to reopen within 90 days after the alien is issued a grant of suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal pursuant to paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this section, if after the issuance of a conditional grant by the Immigration Court or the Board the applicant committed an act that would have rendered him or her ineligible for suspension of deportation or cancellation or removal at the time of the conversion.
(5)
Travel for aliens conditionally granted suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal.
If the Immigration Court or the Board granted suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal on a conditional basis or, if the conditional grant by the Immigration Court was appealed to the Board and the Board issued such a conditional grant, the alien shall retain the conditional grant of suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal upon return to the United States following a temporary absence abroad and be permitted to resume completion of his or her case, provided that:
(i) The alien departed on or before September 30, 1998 with or without a grant of advance parole from the District Director; or
(ii) The alien, prior to his or her departure from the United States after September 30, 1998, obtained a grant of advance parole from the District Director in accordance with section 212(d)(5) of the Act and § 212.5 of this chapter and complied with the terms and conditions of the advance parole.
(c)
Grants of suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal in fiscal years subsequent to fiscal year 1998.
On and after October 1, 1998, the Immigration Court and the Board may grant applications for suspension of deportation and adjustment of status under section 244(a) of the Act (as in effect prior to April 1, 1997) or cancellation of removal and adjustment of status under section 240A(b) of the Act that meet the statutory requirements for such relief and warrant a favorable exercise of discretion until the annual numerical limitation has been reached in that fiscal year. The awarding of such relief shall be determined according to the date the order granting such relief becomes final as defined in §§ 3.1(d)(3) and 3.39 of this chapter.
(1)
Applicability of the annual cap.
When grants are no longer available in a fiscal year, further decisions to grant or deny such relief shall be reserved until such time as a grant becomes available under the annual limitation in a subsequent fiscal year. Immigration judges and the Board may deny without reserving decision or may pretermit those suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal applications in which the applicant has failed to establish statutory eligibility for relief. The basis of such denial or pretermission may not be based on an unfavorable exercise of discretion, a finding of no good moral character on a ground not specifically noted in section 101(f) of the Act, a failure to establish exceptional or extremely unusual hardship to a qualifying relative in cancellation cases, or a failure to establish extreme hardship to the applicant and/or qualifying relative in suspension cases.
(2)
Aliens applying for additional forms of relief.
Whether or not the cap has been reached, the Immigration Court or the Board shall adjudicate concurrently all other forms of relief for which the alien has applied. Applications for suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal shall be denied in the exercise of discretion if the alien is granted asylum or adjustment of status, including pursuant to section 202 of NACARA, while the suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal application is pending. Where an appeal of a decision granting asylum or adjustment is sustained by the Board,
a decision to deny as a matter of discretion an application for suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal on this basis shall be reconsidered.
[63 FR 52138, Sept. 30, 1998, as amended at 66 FR 6446, Jan. 22, 2001]

# Subpart C—Voluntary Departure
§ 240.25
Voluntary departure—authority of the Service.
(a)
Authorized officers.
The authority contained in section 240B(a) of the Act to permit aliens to depart voluntarily from the United States may be exercised in lieu of being subject to proceedings under section 240 of the Act by district directors, assistant district directors for investigations, assistant district directors for examinations, officers in charge, chief patrol agents, the Deputy Executive Associate Director for Enforcement and Removal Operations, the Director of the Office of Juvenile Affairs, service center directors, and assistant service center directors for examinations.
(b)
Conditions.
The Service may attach to the granting of voluntary departure any conditions it deems necessary to ensure the alien's timely departure from the United States, including the posting of a bond, continued detention pending departure, and removal under safeguards. The alien shall be required to present to the Service, for inspection and photocopying, his or her passport or other travel documentation sufficient to assure lawful entry into the country to which the alien is departing. The Service may hold the passport or documentation for sufficient time to investigate its authenticity. A voluntary departure order permitting an alien to depart voluntarily shall inform the alien of the penalties under section 240B(d) of the Act.
(c)
Decision.
The authorized officer, in his or her discretion, shall specify the period of time permitted for voluntary departure, and may grant extensions thereof, except that the total period allowed, including any extensions, shall not exceed 120 days. Every decision regarding voluntary departure shall be communicated in writing on Form I-210, Notice of Action—Voluntary Departure. Voluntary departure may not be granted unless the alien requests such voluntary departure and agrees to its terms and conditions.
(d)
Application.
Any alien who believes himself or herself to be eligible for voluntary departure under this section may apply therefor at any office of the Service. After the commencement of removal proceedings, the application may be communicated through the Service counsel. If the Service agrees to voluntary departure after proceedings have commenced, it may either:
(1) Join in a motion to terminate the proceedings, and if the proceedings are terminated, grant voluntary departure; or
(2) Join in a motion asking the immigration judge to permit voluntary departure in accordance with § 240.26.
(e)
Appeals.
An appeal shall not lie from a denial of an application for voluntary departure under this section, but the denial shall be without prejudice to the alien's right to apply to the immigration judge for voluntary departure in accordance with § 240.26 or for relief from removal under any provision of law.
(f)
Revocation.
If, subsequent to the granting of an application for voluntary departure under this section, it is ascertained that the application should not have been granted, that grant may be revoked without advance notice by any officer authorized to grant voluntary departure under § 240.25(a). Such revocation shall be communicated in writing, citing the statutory basis for revocation. No appeal shall lie from revocation.
[62 FR 10367, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 67 FR 39258, June 7, 2002; 81 FR 62355, Sept. 9, 2016]
Subpart D—Exclusion of Aliens (for Proceedings Commenced Prior to April 1, 1997) [Reserved]
Subpart E—Proceedings To Determine Deportability of Aliens in the United States: Hearing and Appeal (for Proceedings Commenced Prior to April 1, 1997) [Reserved]
Subpart F—Suspension of Deportation and Voluntary Departure (for Proceedings Commenced Prior to April 1, 1997) [Reserved]
Subpart G—Civil Penalties for Failure To Depart [Reserved]

# Subpart H—Applications for Suspension of Deportation or Special Rule Cancellation of Removal Under Section 203 of Pub. L. 105-100

# Source:
64 FR 27876, May 21, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 240.60
Definitions.
As used in this subpart the term:
ABC
means
American Baptist Churches
v.
Thornburgh,
760 F. Supp. 796 (N.D. Cal. 1991).
ABC class member
refers to:
(1) Any Guatemalan national who first entered the United States on or before October 1, 1990; and
(2) Any Salvadoran national who first entered the United States on or before September 19, 1990.
Asylum application pending adjudication by the Service
means any asylum application for which the Service has not served the applicant with a final decision or which has not been referred to the Immigration Court.
Filed an application for asylum
means the proper filing of a principal asylum application or filing a derivative asylum application by being properly included as a dependent spouse or child in an asylum application pursuant to the regulations and procedures in effect at the time of filing the principal or derivative asylum application.
IIRIRA
means the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, enacted as Pub. L. 104-208 (110 Stat. 3009-625).
NACARA
means the Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act (NACARA), enacted as title II of Pub. L. 105-100 (111 Stat. 2160, 2193), as amended by the Technical Corrections to the Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act, Pub. L. 105-139 (111 Stat. 2644).
Registered ABC class member
means an ABC class member who:
(1) In the case of an
ABC
class member who is a national of El Salvador, properly submitted an ABC registration form to the Service on or before October 31, 1991, or applied for temporary protected status on or before October 31, 1991; or
(2) In the case of an
ABC
class member who is a national of Guatemala, properly submitted an
ABC
registration form to the Service on or before December 31, 1991.
§ 240.61
Applicability.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this subpart H applies to the following aliens:
(1) A registered
ABC
class member who has not been apprehended at the time of entry after December 19, 1990;
(2) A Guatemalan or Salvadoran national who filed an application for asylum with the Service on or before April 1, 1990, either by filing an application with the Service or filing the application with the Immigration Court and serving a copy of that application on the Service.
(3) An alien who entered the United States on or before December 31, 1990, filed an application for asylum on or before December 31, 1991, and, at the time of filing the application, was a national of the Soviet Union, Russia, any republic of the former Soviet Union, Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Romania, Hungary, Bulgaria, Albania, East Germany, Yugoslavia, or any state of the former Yugoslavia;
(4) An alien who is the spouse or child of an individual described in paragraph (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section at the time a decision is made to suspend the deportation, or cancel the removal, of the individual described in paragraph (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section;
(5) An alien who is:
(i) The unmarried son or unmarried daughter of an individual described in paragraph (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section and is 21 years of age or older
at the time a decision is made to suspend the deportation, or cancel the removal, of the parent described in paragraph (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section; and
(ii) Entered the United States on or before October 1, 1990.
(b) This subpart H does not apply to any alien who has been convicted at any time of an aggravated felony, as defined in section 101(a)(43) of the Act.
§ 240.62
Jurisdiction.
(a)
Office of International Affairs.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the Office of International Affairs shall have initial jurisdiction to grant or refer to the Immigration Court or Board an application for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal filed by an alien described in § 240.61, provided:
(1) In the case of a national of El Salvador described in § 240.61(a)(1), the alien filed a complete asylum application on or before January 31, 1996 (with an administrative grace period extending to February 16, 1996), or otherwise met the asylum application filing deadline pursuant to the
ABC
settlement agreement, and the application is still pending adjudication by the Service;
(2) In the case of a national of Guatemala described in § 240.61(a)(1), the alien filed a complete asylum application on or before January 3, 1995, or otherwise met the asylum application filing deadline pursuant to the
ABC
settlement agreement, and the application is still pending adjudication by the Service;
(3) In the case of an individual described in § 240.61(a)(2) or (3), the individual's asylum application is pending adjudication by the Service;
(4) In the case of an individual described in § 240.61(a)(4) or (5), the individual's parent or spouse has an application pending with the Service under this subpart H or has been granted relief by the Service under this subpart.
(b)
Immigration Court.
The Immigration Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction over an application for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal filed pursuant to section 309(f)(1)(A) or (B) of IIRIRA, as amended by NACARA, by an alien who has been served Form I-221, Order to Show Cause, or Form I-862, Notice to Appear, after a copy of the charging document has been filed with the Immigration Court, unless the alien is covered by one of the following exceptions:
(1)
Certain ABC class members.
(i) The alien is a registered
ABC
class member for whom proceedings before the Immigration Court or the Board have been administratively closed or continued (including those aliens who had final orders of deportation or removal who have filed and been granted a motion to reopen as required under 8 CFR 3.43);
(ii) The alien is eligible for benefits of the
ABC
settlement agreement and has not had a
de novo
asylum adjudication pursuant to the settlement agreement; and
(iii) The alien has not moved for and been granted a motion to recalendar proceedings before the Immigration Court or the Board to request suspension of deportation.
(2)
Spouses, children, unmarried sons, and unmarried daughters.
(i) The alien is described in § 240.61(a) (4) or (5);
(ii) The alien's spouse or parent is described in § 240.61(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and has a Form I-881 pending with the Service; and
(iii) The alien's proceedings before the Immigration Court have been administratively closed, or the alien's proceedings before the Board have been continued, to permit the alien to file an application for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal with the Service.
§ 240.63
Application process.
(a)
Form and fees.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the application must be made on the form prescribed by USCIS for this program and filed in accordance with the instructions for that form. An applicant who submitted to EOIR a completed, Application for Suspension of Deportation, before the effective date of the form prescribed by USCIS may apply with USCIS by submitting the completed Application for Suspension of Deportation attached to a completed first page of the application. Each application must be filed with the required fees as provided in 8 CFR 106.2.
(b)
Applications filed with EOIR.
If jurisdiction rests with the Immigration Court under § 260.62(b), the application must be made on the Form I-881, if filed subsequent to June 21, 1999. The application form, along with any supporting documents, must be filed with the Immigration Court and served on the Service's district counsel in accordance with the instructions on or accompanying the form. Applications for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal filed prior to June 21, 1999 shall be filed on Form EOIR-40.
(c)
Applications filed with the Service.
If jurisdiction rests with the Service under § 240.62(a), the Form I-881 and supporting documents must be filed in accordance with the instructions on or accompanying the form.
(d)
Conditions and consequences of filing.
Applications filed under this section shall be filed under the following conditions and shall have the following consequences:
(1) The information provided in the application may be used as a basis for the initiation of removal proceedings, or to satisfy any burden of proof in exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings;
(2) The applicant and anyone other than a spouse, parent, son, or daughter of the applicant who assists the applicant in preparing the application must sign the application under penalty of perjury. The applicant's signature establishes a presumption that the applicant is aware of the contents of the application. A person other than a relative specified in this paragraph who assists the applicant in preparing the application also must provide his or her full mailing address;
(3) An application that does not include a response to each of the questions contained in the application, is unsigned, or is unaccompanied by the required materials specified in the instructions to the application is incomplete and shall be returned by mail to the applicant within 30 days of receipt of the application by the Service; and
(4) Knowing placement of false information on the application may subject the person supplying that information to criminal penalties under title 18 of the United States Code and to civil penalties under section 274C of the Act.
[64 FR 27876, May 21, 1999, as amended at 74 FR 26939, June 5, 2009; 85 FR 46926, Aug. 3, 2020; 89 FR 6398, Jan. 31, 2024]
§ 240.64
Eligibility—general.
(a)
Burden and standard of proof.
The burden of proof is on the applicant to establish by a preponderance of the evidence that he or she is eligible for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal and that discretion should be exercised to grant relief.
(b)
Calculation of continuous physical presence and certain breaks in presence.
For purposes of calculating continuous physical presence under this section, section 309(c)(5)(A) of IIRIRA and section 240A(d)(1) of the Act shall not apply to persons described in § 240.61. For purposes of this subpart H, a single absence of 90 days or less or absences which in the aggregate total no more than 180 days shall be considered brief.
(1) For applications for suspension of deportation made under former section 244 of the Act, as in effect prior to April 1, 1997, the burden of proof is on the applicant to establish that any breaks in continuous physical presence were brief, casual, and innocent and did not meaningfully interrupt the period of continuous physical presence in the United States. For purposes of evaluating whether an absence is brief, single absences in excess of 90 days, or absences that total more than 180 days in the aggregate will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. An applicant must establish that any absence from the United States was casual and innocent and did not meaningfully interrupt the period of continuous physical presence.
(2) For applications for special rule cancellation of removal made under section 309(f)(1) of IIRIRA, as amended by NACARA, the applicant shall be considered to have failed to maintain continuous physical presence in the United States if he or she has departed from the United States for any period in excess of 90 days or for any periods in the aggregate exceeding 180 days. The applicant must establish that any period of absence less than 90 days was
casual and innocent and did not meaningfully interrupt the period of continuous physical presence in the United States.
(3) For all applications made under this subpart, a period of continuous physical presence is terminated whenever an alien is removed from the United States under an order issued pursuant to any provision of the Act or the alien has voluntarily departed under the threat of deportation or when the departure is made for purposes of committing an unlawful act.
(4) The requirements of continuous physical presence in the United States under this subpart shall not apply to an alien who:
(i) Has served for a minimum period of 24 months in an active-duty status in the Armed Forces of the United States and, if separated from such service, was separated under honorable conditions, and
(ii) At the time of the alien's enlistment or induction, was in the United States.
(c)
Factors relevant to extreme hardship.
Except as described in paragraph (d) of this section, extreme hardship shall be determined as set forth in § 240.58.
(d)
Rebuttable presumption of extreme hardship for certain classes of aliens
—(1)
Presumption of extreme hardship.
An applicant described in paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of § 240.61 who has submitted a completed Form I-881 or Form EOIR-40 to either the Service or the Immigration Court, in accordance with § 240.63, shall be presumed to have established that deportation or removal from the United States would result in extreme hardship to the applicant or to his or her spouse, parent, or child, who is a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
(2)
Rebuttal of presumption.
A presumption of extreme hardship as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall be rebutted if the evidence in the record establishes that it is more likely than not that neither the applicant nor a qualified relative would suffer extreme hardship if the applicant were deported or removed from the United States. In making such a determination, the adjudicator shall consider relevant factors, including those listed in § 240.58.
(3)
Burden of proof.
In those cases where a presumption of extreme hardship applies, the burden of proof shall be on the Service to establish that it is more likely than not that neither the applicant nor a qualified relative would suffer extreme hardship if the applicant were deported or removed from the United States.
(4)
Effect of rebuttal.
(i) A determination that it is more likely than not that neither the applicant nor a qualified relative would suffer extreme hardship if the applicant were deported or removed from the United States shall be grounds for referral to the Immigration Court or dismissal of an application submitted initially to the Service. The applicant is entitled to a
de novo
adjudication and will again be considered to have a presumption of extreme hardship before the Immigration Court.
(ii) If the Immigration Court determines that extreme hardship will not result from deportation or removal from the United States, the application will be denied.
[64 FR 27876, May 21, 1999; 64 FR 33386, June 23, 1999]
§ 240.65
Eligibility for suspension of deportation.
(a)
Applicable statutory provisions.
To establish eligibility for suspension of deportation under this section, the applicant must be an individual described in § 240.61; must establish that he or she is eligible under former section 244 of the Act, as in effect prior to April 1, 1997; must not be subject to any bars to eligibility in former section 242B(e) of the Act, as in effect prior to April 1, 1997, or any other provisions of law; and must not have been convicted of an aggravated felony or be an alien described in former section 241(a)(4)(D) of the Act, as in effect prior to April 1, 1997 (relating to Nazi persecution and genocide).
(b)
General rule.
To establish eligibility for suspension of deportation under former section 244(a)(1) of the Act, as in effect prior to April 1, 1997, an alien must be deportable under any law of the United States, except the
provisions specified in paragraph (c) of this section, and must establish:
(1) The alien has been physically present in the United States for a continuous period of not less than 7 years immediately preceding the date the application was filed;
(2) During all of such period the alien was and is a person of good moral character; and
(3) The alien's deportation would, in the opinion of the Attorney General, result in extreme hardship to the alien or to the alien's spouse, parent, or child, who is a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
(c)
Aliens deportable on criminal or certain other grounds.
To establish eligibility for suspension of deportation under former section 244(a)(2) of the Act, as in effect prior to April 1, 1997, an alien who is deportable under former section 241(a) (2), (3), or (4) of the Act, as in effect prior to April 1, 1997 (relating to criminal activity, document fraud, failure to register, and security threats), must establish that:
(1) The alien has been physically present in the United States for a continuous period of not less than 10 years immediately following the commission of an act, or the assumption of a status constituting a ground for deportation;
(2) The alien has been and is a person of good moral character during all of such period; and
(3) The alien's deportation would, in the opinion of the Attorney General, result in exceptional and extremely unusual hardship to the alien, or to the alien's spouse, parent, or child, who is a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
(d)
Battered spouses and children.
To establish eligibility for suspension of deportation under former section 244(a)(3) of the Act, as in effect prior to April 1, 1997, an alien must be deportable under any law of the United States, except under former section 241(a)(1)(G) of the Act, as in effect prior to April 1, 1997 (relating to marriage fraud), and except under the provisions specified in paragraph (c) of this section, and must establish that:
(1) The alien has been physically present in the United States for a continuous period of not less than 3 years immediately preceding the date the application was filed;
(2) The alien has been battered or subjected to extreme cruelty in the United States by a spouse or parent who is a United States citizen or lawful permanent resident (or is the parent of a child of a United States citizen or lawful permanent resident and the child has been battered or subjected to extreme cruelty in the United States by such citizen or permanent resident parent); and
(3) During all of such time in the United States the alien was and is a person of good moral character; and
(4) The alien's deportation would, in the opinion of the Attorney General, result in extreme hardship to the alien or the alien's parent or child.
§ 240.66
Eligibility for special rule cancellation of removal.
(a)
Applicable statutory provisions.
To establish eligibility for special rule cancellation of removal, the applicant must show he or she is eligible under section 309(f)(1) of IIRIRA, as amended by section 203 of NACARA. The applicant must be described in § 240.61, must be inadmissible or deportable, must not be subject to any bars to eligibility in sections 240(b)(7), 240A(c), or 240B(d) of the Act, or any other provisions of law, and must not have been convicted of an aggravated felony or be an alien described in section 241(b)(3)(B)(I) of the Act (relating to persecution of others).
(b)
General rule.
To establish eligibility for special rule cancellation of removal under section 309(f)(1)(A) of IIRIRA, as amended by section 203 of NACARA, the alien must establish that:
(1) The alien is not inadmissible under section 212(a)(2) or (3) or deportable under section 237(a)(2), (3) or (4) of the Act (relating to criminal activity, document fraud, failure to register, and security threats);
(2) The alien has been physically present in the United States for a continuous period of 7 years immediately preceding the date the application was filed;
(3) The alien has been a person of good moral character during the required period of continuous physical presence; and
(4) The alien's removal from the United States would result in extreme hardship to the alien, or to the alien's spouse, parent or child who is a United States citizen or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
(c)
Aliens inadmissible or deportable on criminal or certain other grounds.
To establish eligibility for special rule cancellation of removal under section 309(f)(1)(B) of IIRIRA, as amended by section 203 of NACARA, the alien must be described in § 240.61 and establish that:
(1) The alien is inadmissible under section 212(a)(2) of the Act (relating to criminal activity), or deportable under paragraphs (a)(2) (other than section 237(a)(2)(A)(iii), relating to aggravated felony convictions), or (a)(3) of section 237 of the Act (relating to criminal activity, document fraud, and failure to register);
(2) The alien has been physically present in the United States for a continuous period of not less than 10 years immediately following the commission of an act, or the assumption of a status constituting a ground for removal;
(3) The alien has been a person of good moral character during the required period of continuous physical presence; and
(4) The alien's removal from the United States would result in exceptional and extremely unusual hardship to the alien or to the alien's spouse, parent, or child, who is a United States citizen or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
§ 240.67
Procedure for interview before an asylum officer.
(a)
Fingerprinting requirements.
USCIS will notify each applicant 14 years of age or older to appear for an interview only after the applicant has complied with fingerprinting requirements pursuant to 8 CFR 103.16, and USCIS has received a definitive response from the FBI that a full criminal background check has been completed. A definitive response that a full criminal background check on an applicant has been completed includes:
(1) Confirmation from the FBI that an applicant does not have an administrative or criminal record;
(2) Confirmation from the FBI that an applicant has an administrative or a criminal record; or
(3) Confirmation from the FBI that two properly prepared fingerprint cards (Form FD-258) have been determined unclassifiable for the purpose of conducting a criminal background check and have been rejected.
(b)
Interview.
(1) The asylum officer shall conduct the interview in a non-adversarial manner and, except at the request of the applicant, separate and apart from the general public. The purpose of the interview shall be to elicit all relevant and useful information bearing on the applicant's eligibility for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal. If the applicant has an asylum application pending with the Service, the asylum officer may also elicit information relating to the application for asylum in accordance with § 208.9 of this chapter. At the time of the interview, the applicant must provide complete information regarding the applicant's identity, including name, date and place of birth, and nationality, and may be required to register this identity electronically or through any other means designated by the Attorney General.
(2) The applicant may have counsel or a representative present, may present witnesses, and may submit affidavits of witnesses and other evidence.
(3) An applicant unable to proceed with the interview in English must provide, at no expense to the Service, a competent interpreter fluent in both English and a language in which the applicant is fluent. The interpreter must be at least 18 years of age. The following individuals may not serve as the applicant's interpreter: the applicant's attorney or representative of record; a witness testifying on the applicant's behalf; or, if the applicant also has an asylum application pending with the Service, a representative or employee of the applicant's country of nationality, or, if stateless, country of last habitual residence. Failure without good cause to comply with this paragraph may be considered a failure
to appear for the interview for purposes of § 240.68.
(4) The asylum officer shall have authority to administer oaths, verify the identity of the applicant (including through the use of electronic means), verify the identity of any interpreter, present and receive evidence, and question the applicant and any witnesses.
(5) Upon completion of the interview, the applicant or the applicant's representative shall have an opportunity to make a statement or comment on the evidence presented. The asylum officer may, in the officer's discretion, limit the length of such statement or comment and may require its submission in writing. Upon completion of the interview, and except as otherwise provided by the asylum officer, the applicant shall be informed of the requirement to appear in person to receive and to acknowledge receipt of the decision and any other accompanying material at a time and place designated by the asylum officer.
(6) The asylum officer shall consider evidence submitted by the applicant with the application, as well as any evidence submitted by the applicant before or at the interview. As a matter of discretion, the asylum officer may grant the applicant a brief extension of time following an interview, during which the applicant may submit additional evidence.
[64 FR 27876, May 21, 1999, as amended at 76 FR 53791, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 240.68
Failure to appear at an interview before an asylum officer or failure to follow requirements for fingerprinting.
(a) Failure to appear for a scheduled interview without prior authorization may result in dismissal of the application or waiver of the right to an adjudication by an asylum officer. A written request to reschedule will be granted if it is an initial request and is received by the Asylum Office at least 2 days before the scheduled interview date. All other requests to reschedule the interview, including those submitted after the interview date, will be granted only if the applicant has a reasonable excuse for not appearing, and the excuse was received by the Asylum Office in writing within a reasonable time after the scheduled interview date.
(b) Failure to comply with fingerprint processing requirements without reasonable excuse may result in dismissal of the application or waiver of the right to an adjudication by an asylum officer.
(c) Failure to appear shall be excused if the notice of the interview or fingerprint appointment was not mailed to the applicant's current address and such address had been provided to the Office of International Affairs by the applicant prior to the date of mailing in accordance with section 265 of the Act and Service regulations, unless the asylum officer determines that the applicant received reasonable notice of the interview or fingerprinting appointment.
§ 240.69
Reliance on information compiled by other sources.
In determining whether an applicant is eligible for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal, the asylum officer may rely on material described in § 208.12 of this chapter. Nothing in this subpart shall be construed to entitle the applicant to conduct discovery directed toward records, officers, agents, or employees of the Service, the Department of Justice, or the Department of State.
§ 240.70
Decision by the Service.
(a)
Service of decision.
Unless the asylum officer has granted the application for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal at the time of the interview or as otherwise provided by an Asylum Office, the applicant will be required to return to the Asylum Office to receive service of the decision on the applicant's application. If the applicant does not speak English fluently, the applicant shall bring an interpreter when returning to the office to receive service of the decision.
(b)
Grant of suspension of deportation.
An asylum officer may grant suspension of deportation to an applicant eligible to apply for this relief with the Service who qualifies for suspension of deportation under former section 244(a)(1) of the Act, as in effect prior to
April 1, 1997, who is not an alien described in former section 241(a)(4)(D) of the Act, as in effect prior to April 1, 1997, and who admits deportability under any law of the United States, excluding former section 241(a)(2), (3), or (4) of the Act, as in effect prior to April 1, 1997. If the Service has made a preliminary decision to grant the applicant suspension of deportation under this subpart, the applicant shall be notified of that decision and will be asked to sign an admission of deportability or inadmissibility. The applicant must sign the admission before the Service may grant the relief sought. If suspension of deportation is granted, the Service shall adjust the status of the alien to lawful permanent resident, effective as of the date that suspension of deportation is granted.
(c)
Grant of cancellation of removal.
An asylum officer may grant cancellation of removal to an applicant who is eligible to apply for this relief with the Service, and who qualifies for cancellation of removal under section 309(f)(1)(A) of IIRIRA, as amended by section 203 of NACARA, and who admits deportability under section 237(a), excluding paragraphs (2), (3), and (4), of the Act, or inadmissibility under section 212(a), excluding paragraphs (2) or (3), of the Act. If the Service has made a preliminary decision to grant the applicant cancellation of removal under this subpart, the applicant shall be notified of that decision and asked to sign an admission of deportability or inadmissibility. The applicant must sign the concession before the Service may grant the relief sought. If the Service grants cancellation of removal, the Service shall adjust the status of the alien to lawful permanent resident, effective as of the date that cancellation of removal is granted.
(d)
Referral of the application.
Except as provided in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, and unless the applicant is granted asylum or is in lawful immigrant or non-immigrant status, an asylum officer shall refer the application for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal to the Immigration Court for adjudication in deportation or removal proceedings, and will provide the applicant with written notice of the statutory or regulatory basis for the referral, if:
(1) The applicant is not clearly eligible for suspension of deportation under former section 244(a)(1) of the Act as in effect prior to April 1, 1997, or for cancellation of removal under section 309(f)(1)(A) of IIRIRA, as amended by NACARA;
(2) The applicant does not appear to merit relief as a matter of discretion;
(3) The applicant appears to be eligible for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal under this subpart, but does not admit deportability or inadmissibility; or
(4) The applicant failed to appear for a scheduled interview with an asylum officer or failed to comply with fingerprinting processing requirements and such failure was not excused by the Service, unless the application is dismissed.
(e)
Dismissal of the application.
An asylum officer shall dismiss without prejudice an application for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal submitted by an applicant who has been granted asylum, or who is in lawful immigrant or non-immigrant status. An asylum officer may also dismiss an application for failure to appear, pursuant to § 240.68. The asylum officer will provide the applicant written notice of the statutory or regulatory basis for the dismissal.
(f)
Special provisions for certain ABC class members whose proceedings before EOIR were administratively closed or continued.
The following provisions shall apply with respect to an
ABC
class member who was in proceedings before the Immigration Court or the Board, and those proceedings were closed or continued pursuant to the
ABC
settlement agreement:
(1)
Suspension of deportation or asylum granted.
If an asylum officer grants asylum or suspension of deportation, the previous proceedings before the Immigration Court or Board shall be terminated as a matter of law on the date relief is granted.
(2)
Asylum denied and application for suspension of deportation not approved.
If an asylum officer denies asylum and does not grant the applicant suspension of deportation, the Service shall move to recalendar proceedings before
the Immigration Court or resume proceedings before the Board, whichever is appropriate. The Service shall refer to the Immigration Court or the Board the application for suspension of deportation. In the case where jurisdiction rests with the Board, an application for suspension of deportation that is referred to the Board will be remanded to the Immigration Court for adjudication.
(g)
Special provisions for dependents whose proceedings before EOIR were administratively closed or continued.
If an asylum officer grants suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal to an applicant described in § 240.61(a)(4) or (a)(5), whose proceedings before EOIR were administratively closed or continued, those proceedings shall terminate as of the date the relief is granted. If suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal is not granted, the Service shall move to recalendar proceedings before the Immigration Court or resume proceedings before the Board, whichever is appropriate. The Service shall refer to the Immigration Court or the Board the application for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal. In the case where jurisdiction rests with the Board, an application for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal that is referred to the Board will be remanded to the Immigration Court for adjudication.
(h)
Special provisions for applicants who depart the United States and return under a grant of advance parole while in deportation proceedings.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, for purposes of adjudicating an application for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal under this subpart, if an applicant departs and returns to the United States pursuant to a grant of advance parole while in deportation proceedings, including deportation proceedings administratively closed or continued pursuant to the
ABC
settlement agreement, the deportation proceedings will be considered terminated as of the date of applicant's departure from the United States. A decision on the NACARA application shall be issued in accordance with paragraph (a), and paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section.
Pt. 241

# PART 241—APPREHENSION AND DETENTION OF ALIENS ORDERED REMOVED

# Subpart A—Post-hearing Detention and Removal
Sec.
241.1
Final order of removal.
241.2
Warrant of removal.
241.3
Detention of aliens during removal period.
241.4
Continued detention of inadmissible, criminal, and other aliens beyond the removal period.
241.5
Conditions of release after removal period.
241.6
Administrative stay of removal.
241.7
Self-removal.
241.8
Reinstatement of removal orders.
241.9
Notice to transportation line of alien's removal.
241.10
Special care and attention of removable aliens.
241.11
Detention and removal of stowaways.
241.12
Nonapplication of costs of detention and maintenance.
241.13
Determination of whether there is a significant likelihood of removing a detained alien in the reasonably foreseeable future.
241.14
Continued detention of removable aliens on account of special circumstances.
241.15
Countries to which aliens may be removed.
241.16-241.19
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Deportation of Excluded Aliens (for Hearings Commenced Prior to April 1, 1997)
241.20
Proceedings commenced prior to April 1, 1997.
241.21
Stay of deportation of excluded alien.
241.22
Notice to surrender for deportation.
241.23
Cost of maintenance not assessed.
241.24
Notice to transportation line of alien's exclusion.
241.25
Deportation.
241.26-241.29
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Deportation of Aliens in the United States (for Hearings Commenced Prior to April 1, 1997)
241.30
Proceedings commenced prior to April 1, 1997.
241.31
Final order of deportation.
241.32
Warrant of deportation.
241.33
Expulsion.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 552, 552a; 8 U.S.C. 1103, 1182, 1223, 1224, 1225, 1226, 1227, 1228, 1231, 1251, 1253, 1255, 1330, 1362; 18 U.S.C. 4002, 4013(c)(4); Pub. L. 107-296, 116 Stat. 2135 (6 U.S.C. 101,
et seq.
); 8 CFR part 2.

# Source:
62 FR 10378, Mar. 6, 1997, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Post-hearing Detention and Removal
§ 241.1
Final order of removal.
An order of removal becomes final in accordance with 8 CFR 1241.1.
[70 FR 673, Jan. 5, 2005]
§ 241.2
Warrant of removal.
(a)
Issuance of a warrant of removal
—(1)
In general.
A Form I-205, Warrant of Removal, based on the final administrative removal order in the alien's case will be issued by any of the following immigration officials:
(i) Director, Enforcement and Removal Operations;
(ii) Deputy Assistant Director, Field Operations;
(iii) Field Office Directors;
(iv) Deputy Field Office Directors;
(v) Assistant Field Office Directors;
(vi) Officers in Charge;
(vii) Special Agents in Charge;
(viii) Deputy Special Agents in Charge;
(ix) Associate Special Agents in Charge;
(x) Assistant Special Agents in Charge;
(xi) Group Supervisors;
(xii) Resident Agents in Charge;
(xiii) District Field Officers;
(xiv) Chief Patrol Agents;
(xv) Deputy Chief Patrol Agents;
(xvi) Division Chiefs;
(xvii) Assistant Chief Patrol Agents;
(xviii) Patrol Agents in Charge;
(xix) Deputy Patrol Agents in Charge;
(xx) Watch Commanders, Border Patrol;
(xxi) Director of Air Operations;
(xxii) Director of Marine Operations;
(xxiii) Supervisory Air and Marine Interdiction Agents;
(xxiv) Unit Chief, Law Enforcement Support Center;
(xxv) Section Chief, Law Enforcement Support Center;
(xxvi) Port Directors;
(xxvii) Assistant Port Directors;
(xxviii) Directors, Field Operations;
(xxix) Assistant Directors, Field Operations;
(xxx) Watch Commanders, Field Operations;
(xxxi) Chiefs, Field Operations; and
(xxxii) Other duly authorized officers or employees of the Department of Homeland Security or the United States who are delegated the authority as provided in 8 CFR 2.1 to issue Warrants of Removal, and who have successfully completed any required immigration law enforcement training.
(2)
Costs and care during removal.
The immigration officials listed in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (xxxi) of this section, and other officers or employees of the Department or the United States who are delegated the authority as provided in 8 CFR 2.1, shall exercise the authority contained in section 241 of the Act to determine at whose expense the alien shall be removed and whether his or her mental or physical condition requires personal care and attention en route to his or her destination.
(b)
Execution of the warrant of removal.
Any officer authorized by 8 CFR 287.5(e)(3) to execute administrative warrants of arrest may execute a warrant of removal.
[70 FR 67089, Nov. 4, 2005, as amended at 81 FR 62355, Sept. 9, 2016]
§ 241.3
Detention of aliens during removal period.
(a)
Assumption of custody.
Once the removal period defined in section 241(a)(1) of the Act begins, an alien in the United States will be taken into custody pursuant to the warrant of removal.
(b)
Cancellation of bond.
Any bond previously posted will be canceled unless it has been breached or is subject to being breached.
(c)
Judicial stays.
The filing of (or intention to file) a petition or action in a Federal court seeking review of the issuance or execution of an order of removal shall not delay execution of the Warrant of Removal except upon an affirmative order of the court.
(d)
Information regarding detainees.
Disclosure of information relating to
detainees shall be governed by the provisions of 8 CFR 236.3.
[62 FR 10378, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 70 FR 673, Jan. 5, 2005]
§ 241.4
Continued detention of inadmissible, criminal, and other aliens beyond the removal period.
(a)
Scope.
The authority to continue an alien in custody or grant release or parole under sections 241(a)(6) and 212(d)(5)(A) of the Act shall be exercised by the Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner, as follows: Except as otherwise directed by the Commissioner or his or her designee, the Executive Associate Commissioner for Field Operations (Executive Associate Commissioner), the Deputy Executive Associate Commissioner for Detention and Removal, the Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office or the district director may continue an alien in custody beyond the removal period described in section 241(a)(1) of the Act pursuant to the procedures described in this section. Except as provided for in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the provisions of this section apply to the custody determinations for the following group of aliens:
(1) An alien ordered removed who is inadmissible under section 212 of the Act, including an excludable alien convicted of one or more aggravated felony offenses and subject to the provisions of section 501(b) of the Immigration Act of 1990, Public Law 101-649, 104 Stat. 4978, 5048 (codified at 8 U.S.C. 1226(e)(1) through (e)(3)(1994));
(2) An alien ordered removed who is removable under section 237(a)(1)(C) of the Act;
(3) An alien ordered removed who is removable under sections 237(a)(2) or 237(a)(4) of the Act, including deportable criminal aliens whose cases are governed by former section 242 of the Act prior to amendment by the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, Div. C of Public Law 104-208, 110 Stat. 3009-546; and
(4) An alien ordered removed who the decision-maker determines is unlikely to comply with the removal order or is a risk to the community.
(b)
Applicability to particular aliens
—(1)
Motions to reopen.
An alien who has filed a motion to reopen immigration proceedings for consideration of relief from removal, including withholding or deferral of removal pursuant to 8 CFR 208.16 or 208.17, shall remain subject to the provisions of this section unless the motion to reopen is granted. Section 236 of the Act and 8 CFR 236.1 govern custody determinations for aliens who are in pending immigration proceedings before the Executive Office for Immigration Review.
(2)
Parole for certain Cuban nationals.
The review procedures in this section do not apply to any inadmissible Mariel Cuban who is being detained by the Service pending an exclusion or removal proceeding, or following entry of a final exclusion or pending his or her return to Cuba or removal to another country. Instead, the determination whether to release on parole, or to revoke such parole, or to detain, shall in the case of a Mariel Cuban be governed by the procedures in 8 CFR 212.12.
(3)
Individuals granted withholding or deferral of removal.
Aliens granted withholding of removal under section 241(b)(3) of the Act or withholding or deferral of removal under the Convention Against Torture who are otherwise subject to detention are subject to the provisions of this part 241. Individuals subject to a termination of deferral hearing under 8 CFR 208.17(d) remain subject to the provisions of this part 241 throughout the termination process.
(4)
Service determination under 8 CFR 241.13.
The custody review procedures in this section do not apply after the Service has made a determination, pursuant to the procedures provided in 8 CFR 241.13, that there is no significant likelihood that an alien under a final order of removal can be removed in the reasonably foreseeable future. However, if the Service subsequently determines, because of a change of circumstances, that there is a significant likelihood that the alien may be removed in the reasonably foreseeable future to the country to which the alien was ordered removed or to a third country, the alien shall again be subject to the custody review procedures under this section.
(c)
Delegation of authority.
The Attorney General's statutory authority to
make custody determinations under sections 241(a)(6) and 212(d)(5)(A) of the Act when there is a final order of removal is delegated as follows:
(1)
District Directors and Directors of Detention and Removal Field Offices.
The initial custody determination described in paragraph (h) of this section and any further custody determination concluded in the 3 month period immediately following the expiration of the 90-day removal period, subject to the provisions of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, will be made by the district director or the Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office having jurisdiction over the alien. The district director or the Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office shall maintain appropriate files respecting each detained alien reviewed for possible release, and shall have authority to determine the order in which the cases shall be reviewed, and to coordinate activities associated with these reviews in his or her respective jurisdictional area.
(2)
Headquarters Post-Order Detention Unit (HQPDU).
For any alien the district director refers for further review after the removal period, or any alien who has not been released or removed by the expiration of the three-month period after the review, all further custody determinations will be made by the Executive Associate Commissioner, acting through the HQPDU.
(3)
The HQPDU review plan.
The Executive Associate Commissioner shall appoint a Director of the HQPDU. The Director of the HQPDU shall have authority to establish and maintain appropriate files respecting each detained alien to be reviewed for possible release, to determine the order in which the cases shall be reviewed, and to coordinate activities associated with these reviews.
(4)
Additional delegation of authority.
All references to the Executive Associate Commissioner, the Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office, and the district director in this section shall be deemed to include any person or persons (including a committee) designated in writing by the Executive Associate Commissioner, the Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office, or the district director to exercise powers under this section.
(d)
Custody determinations.
A copy of any decision by the district director, Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office, or Executive Associate Commissioner to release or to detain an alien shall be provided to the detained alien. A decision to retain custody shall briefly set forth the reasons for the continued detention. A decision to release may contain such special conditions as are considered appropriate in the opinion of the Service. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, there is no appeal from the district director's or the Executive Associate Commissioner's decision.
(1)
Showing by the alien.
The district director, Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office, or Executive Associate Commissioner may release an alien if the alien demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Attorney General or her designee that his or her release will not pose a danger to the community or to the safety of other persons or to property or a significant risk of flight pending such alien's removal from the United States. The district director, Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office, or Executive Associate Commissioner may also, in accordance with the procedures and consideration of the factors set forth in this section, continue in custody any alien described in paragraphs (a) and (b)(1) of this section.
(2)
Service of decision and other documents.
All notices, decisions, or other documents in connection with the custody reviews conducted under this section by the district director, Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office, or Executive Associate Commissioner shall be served on the alien, in accordance with 8 CFR 103.8, by the Service district office having jurisdiction over the alien. Release documentation (including employment authorization if appropriate) shall be issued by the district office having jurisdiction over the alien in accordance with the custody determination made by the district director or by the Executive Associate Commissioner. Copies of all such documents will be retained in the alien's record and forwarded to the HQPDU.
(3)
Alien's representative.
The alien's representative is required to complete Form G-28, Notice of Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Representative, at the time of the interview or prior to reviewing the detainee's records. The Service will forward by regular mail a copy of any notice or decision that is being served on the alien only to the attorney or representative of record. The alien remains responsible for notification to any other individual providing assistance to him or her.
(e)
Criteria for release.
Before making any recommendation or decision to release a detainee, a majority of the Review Panel members, or the Director of the HQPDU in the case of a record review, must conclude that:
(1) Travel documents for the alien are not available or, in the opinion of the Service, immediate removal, while proper, is otherwise not practicable or not in the public interest;
(2) The detainee is presently a non-violent person;
(3) The detainee is likely to remain nonviolent if released;
(4) The detainee is not likely to pose a threat to the community following release;
(5) The detainee is not likely to violate the conditions of release; and
(6) The detainee does not pose a significant flight risk if released.
(f)
Factors for consideration.
The following factors should be weighed in considering whether to recommend further detention or release of a detainee:
(1) The nature and number of disciplinary infractions or incident reports received when incarcerated or while in Service custody;
(2) The detainee's criminal conduct and criminal convictions, including consideration of the nature and severity of the alien's convictions, sentences imposed and time actually served, probation and criminal parole history, evidence of recidivism, and other criminal history;
(3) Any available psychiatric and psychological reports pertaining to the detainee's mental health;
(4) Evidence of rehabilitation including institutional progress relating to participation in work, educational, and vocational programs, where available;
(5) Favorable factors, including ties to the United States such as the number of close relatives residing here lawfully;
(6) Prior immigration violations and history;
(7) The likelihood that the alien is a significant flight risk or may abscond to avoid removal, including history of escapes, failures to appear for immigration or other proceedings, absence without leave from any halfway house or sponsorship program, and other defaults; and
(8) Any other information that is probative of whether the alien is likely to—
(i) Adjust to life in a community,
(ii) Engage in future acts of violence,
(iii) Engage in future criminal activity,
(iv) Pose a danger to the safety of himself or herself or to other persons or to property, or
(v) Violate the conditions of his or her release from immigration custody pending removal from the United States.
(g)
Travel documents and docket control for aliens continued in detention
—(1)
Removal period.
(i) The removal period for an alien subject to a final order of removal shall begin on the latest of the following dates:
(A) the date the order becomes administratively final;
(B) If the removal order is subject to judicial review (including review by habeas corpus) and if the court has ordered a stay of the alien's removal, the date on which, consistent with the court's order, the removal order can be executed and the alien removed; or
(C) If the alien was detained or confined, except in connection with a proceeding under this chapter relating to removability, the date the alien is released from the detention or confinement.
(ii) The removal period shall run for a period of 90 days. However, the removal period is extended under section 241(a)(1)(C) of the Act if the alien fails or refuses to make timely application in good faith for travel or other documents necessary to the alien's departure or conspires or acts to prevent the alien's removal subject to an order of removal. The Service will provide such
an alien with a Notice of Failure to Comply, as provided in paragraph (g)(5) of this section, before the expiration of the removal period. The removal period shall be extended until the alien demonstrates to the Service that he or she has complied with the statutory obligations. Once the alien has complied with his or her obligations under the law, the Service shall have a reasonable period of time in order to effect the alien's removal.
(2)
In general.
The district director shall continue to undertake appropriate steps to secure travel documents for the alien both before and after the expiration of the removal period. If the district director is unable to secure travel documents within the removal period, he or she shall apply for assistance from Headquarters Detention and Deportation, Office of Field Operations. The district director shall promptly advise the HQPDU Director when travel documents are obtained for an alien whose custody is subject to review by the HQPDU. The Service's determination that receipt of a travel document is likely may by itself warrant continuation of detention pending the removal of the alien from the United States.
(3)
Availability of travel document.
In making a custody determination, the district director and the Director of the HQPDU shall consider the ability to obtain a travel document for the alien. If it is established at any stage of a custody review that, in the judgment of the Service, travel documents can be obtained, or such document is forthcoming, the alien will not be released unless immediate removal is not practicable or in the public interest.
(4)
Removal.
The Service will not conduct a custody review under these procedures when the Service notifies the alien that it is ready to execute an order of removal.
(5)
Alien's compliance and cooperation.
(i) Release will be denied and the alien may remain in detention if the alien fails or refuses to make timely application in good faith for travel documents necessary to the alien's departure or conspires or acts to prevent the alien's removal. The detention provisions of section 241(a)(2) of the Act will continue to apply, including provisions that mandate detention of certain criminal and terrorist aliens.
(ii) The Service shall serve the alien with a Notice of Failure to Comply, which shall advise the alien of the following: the provisions of sections 241(a)(1)(C) (extension of removal period) and 243(a) of the Act (criminal penalties related to removal); the circumstances demonstrating his or her failure to comply with the requirements of section 241(a)(1)(C) of the Act; and an explanation of the necessary steps that the alien must take in order to comply with the statutory requirements.
(iii) The Service shall advise the alien that the Notice of Failure to Comply shall have the effect of extending the removal period as provided by law, if the removal period has not yet expired, and that the Service is not obligated to complete its scheduled custody reviews under this section until the alien has demonstrated compliance with the statutory obligations.
(iv) The fact that the Service does not provide a Notice of Failure to Comply, within the 90-day removal period, to an alien who has failed to comply with the requirements of section 241(a)(1)(C) of the Act, shall not have the effect of excusing the alien's conduct.
(h)
District director's or Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office's custody review procedures.
The district director's or Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office's custody determination will be developed in accordance with the following procedures:
(1)
Records review.
The district director or Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office will conduct the initial custody review. For aliens described in paragraphs (a) and (b)(1) of this section, the district director or Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office will conduct a records review prior to the expiration of the removal period. This initial post-order custody review will consist of a review of the alien's records and any written information submitted in English to the district director by or on behalf of the alien. However, the district director or Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office may in his or her
discretion schedule a personal or telephonic interview with the alien as part of this custody determination. The district director or Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office may also consider any other relevant information relating to the alien or his or her circumstances and custody status.
(2)
Notice to alien.
The district director or Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office will provide written notice to the detainee approximately 30 days in advance of the pending records review so that the alien may submit information in writing in support of his or her release. The alien may be assisted by a person of his or her choice, subject to reasonable security concerns at the institution and panel's discretion, in preparing or submitting information in response to the district director's notice. Such assistance shall be at no expense to the Government. If the alien or his or her representative requests additional time to prepare materials beyond the time when the district director or Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office expects to conduct the records review, such a request will constitute a waiver of the requirement that the review occur prior to the expiration of the removal period.
(3)
Factors for consideration.
The district director's or Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office's review will include but is not limited to consideration of the factors described in paragraph (f) of this section. Before making any decision to release a detainee, the district director must be able to reach the conclusions set forth in paragraph (e) of this section.
(4)
District director's or Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office's decision.
The district director or Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office will notify the alien in writing that he or she is to be released from custody, or that he or she will be continued in detention pending removal or further review of his or her custody status.
(5)
District office or Detention and Removal Field office staff.
The district director or the Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office may delegate the authority to conduct the custody review, develop recommendations, or render the custody or release decisions to those persons directly responsible for detention within his or her geographical areas of responsibility. This includes the deputy district director, the assistant director for detention and deportation, the officer-in-charge of a detention center, the assistant director of the detention and removal field office, the director of the detention and removal resident office, the assistant director of the detention and removal resident office, officers in charge of service processing centers, or such other persons as the district director or the Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office may designate from the professional staff of the Service.
(i)
Determinations by the Executive Associate Commissioner.
Determinations by the Executive Associate Commissioner to release or retain custody of aliens shall be developed in accordance with the following procedures.
(1)
Review panels.
The HQPDU Director shall designate a panel or panels to make recommendations to the Executive Associate Commissioner. A Review Panel shall, except as otherwise provided, consist of two persons. Members of a Review Panel shall be selected from the professional staff of the Service. All recommendations by the two-member Review Panel shall be unanimous. If the vote of the two-member Review Panel is split, it shall adjourn its deliberations concerning that particular detainee until a third Review Panel member is added. The third member of any Review Panel shall be the Director of the HQPDU or his or her designee. A recommendation by a three-member Review Panel shall be by majority vote.
(2)
Records review.
Initially, and at the beginning of each subsequent review, the HQPDU Director or a Review Panel shall review the alien's records. Upon completion of this records review, the HQPDU Director or the Review Panel may issue a written recommendation that the alien be released and reasons therefore.
(3)
Personal interview.
(i) If the HQPDU Director does not accept a panel's recommendation to grant release after a records review, or if the alien is not recommended for release, a Review Panel shall personally interview the
detainee. The scheduling of such interviews shall be at the discretion of the HQPDU Director. The HQPDU Director will provide a translator if he or she determines that such assistance is appropriate.
(ii) The alien may be accompanied during the interview by a person of his or her choice, subject to reasonable security concerns at the institution's and panel's discretion, who is able to attend at the time of the scheduled interview. Such assistance shall be at no expense to the Government. The alien may submit to the Review Panel any information, in English, that he or she believes presents a basis for his or her release.
(4)
Alien's participation.
Every alien shall respond to questions or provide other information when requested to do so by Service officials for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section.
(5)
Panel recommendation.
Following completion of the interview and its deliberations, the Review Panel shall issue a written recommendation that the alien be released or remain in custody pending removal or further review. This written recommendation shall include a brief statement of the factors that the Review Panel deems material to its recommendation.
(6)
Determination.
The Executive Associate Commissioner shall consider the recommendation and appropriate custody review materials and issue a custody determination, in the exercise of discretion under the standards of this section. The Executive Associate Commissioner's review will include but is not limited to consideration of the factors described in paragraph (f) of this section. Before making any decision to release a detainee, the Executive Associate Commissioner must be able to reach the conclusions set forth in paragraph (e) of this section. The Executive Associate Commissioner is not bound by the panel's recommendation.
(7)
No significant likelihood or removal.
During the custody review process as provided in this paragraph (i), or at the conclusion of that review, if the alien submits, or the record contains, information providing a substantial reason to believe that the removal of a detained alien is not significantly likely in the reasonably foreseeable future, the HQPDU shall treat that as a request for review and initiate the review procedures under § 241.13. To the extent relevant, the HQPDU may consider any information developed during the custody review process under this section in connection with the determinations to be made by the Service under § 241.13. The Service shall complete the custody review under this section unless the HQPDU is able to make a prompt determination to release the alien under an order of supervision under § 241.13 because there is no significant likelihood that the alien will be removed in the reasonably foreseeable future.
(j)
Conditions of release
—(1)
In general.
The district director, Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office, or Executive Associate Commissioner shall impose such conditions or special conditions on release as the Service considers appropriate in an individual case or cases, including but not limited to the conditions of release noted in 8 CFR 212.5(c) and § 241.5. An alien released under this section must abide by the release conditions specified by the Service in relation to his or her release or sponsorship.
(2)
Sponsorship.
The district director, Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office, or Executive Associate Commissioner may, in the exercise of discretion, condition release on placement with a close relative who agrees to act as a sponsor, such as a parent, spouse, child, or sibling who is a lawful permanent resident or a citizen of the United States, or may condition release on the alien's placement or participation in an approved halfway house, mental health project, or community project when, in the opinion of the Service, such condition is warranted. No detainee may be released until sponsorship, housing, or other placement has been found for the detainee, if ordered, including but not limited to, evidence of financial support.
(3)
Employment authorization.
The district director, Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office, and the Executive Associate Commissioner, may, in the exercise of discretion,
grant employment authorization under the same conditions set forth in § 241.5(c) for aliens released under an order of supervision.
(4)
Withdrawal of release approval.
The district director, Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office, or Executive Associate Commissioner may, in the exercise of discretion, withdraw approval for release of any detained alien prior to release when, in the decision-maker's opinion, the conduct of the detainee, or any other circumstance, indicates that release would no longer be appropriate.
(k)
Timing of reviews.
The timing of reviews shall be in accordance with the following guidelines:
(1)
District director or Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office.
(i) Prior to the expiration of the removal period, the district director or Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office shall conduct a custody review for an alien described in paragraphs (a) and (b)(1) of this section where the alien's removal, while proper, cannot be accomplished during the period, or is impracticable or contrary to the public interest. As provided in paragraph (h)(4) of this section, the district director or Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office will notify the alien in writing that he or she is to be released from custody, or that he or she will be continued in detention pending removal or further review of his or her custody status.
(ii) When release is denied pending the alien's removal, the district director or Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office in his or her discretion may retain responsibility for custody determinations for up to three months after expiration of the removal period, during which time the district director or Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office may conduct such additional review of the case as he or she deems appropriate. The district director may release the alien if he or she is not removed within the three-month period following the expiration of the removal period, in accordance with paragraphs (e), (f), and (j) of this section, or the district director or Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office may refer the alien to the HQPDU for further custody review.
(2)
HQPDU reviews
—(i)
District director or Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office referral for further review.
When the district director or Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office refers a case to the HQPDU for further review, as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, authority over the custody determination transfers to the Executive Associate Commissioner, according to procedures established by the HQPDU. The Service will provide the alien with approximately 30 days notice of this further review, which will ordinarily be conducted by the expiration of the removal period or as soon thereafter as practicable.
(ii)
District director or Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office retains jurisdiction.
When the district director or Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office has advised the alien at the 90-day review as provided in paragraph (h)(4) of this section that he or she will remain in custody pending removal or further custody review, and the alien is not removed within three months of the district director's decision, authority over the custody determination transfers from the district director or Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office to the Executive Associate Commissioner. The initial HQPDU review will ordinarily be conducted at the expiration of the three-month period after the 90-day review or as soon thereafter as practicable. The Service will provide the alien with approximately 30 days notice of that review.
(iii)
Continued detention cases.
A subsequent review shall ordinarily be commenced for any detainee within approximately one year of a decision by the Executive Associate Commissioner declining to grant release. Not more than once every three months in the interim between annual reviews, the alien may submit a written request to the HQPDU for release consideration based on a proper showing of a material change in circumstances since the last annual review. The HQPDU shall respond to the alien's request in writing within approximately 90 days.
(iv)
Review scheduling.
Reviews will be conducted within the time periods specified in paragraphs (k)(1)(i), (k)(2)(i), (k)(2)(ii), and (k)(2)(iii) of this
section or as soon as possible thereafter, allowing for any unforeseen circumstances or emergent situation.
(v)
Discretionary reviews.
The HQPDU Director, in his or her discretion, may schedule a review of a detainee at shorter intervals when he or she deems such review to be warranted.
(3)
Postponement of review.
In the case of an alien who is in the custody of the Service, the district director or the HQPDU Director may, in his or her discretion, suspend or postpone the custody review process if such detainee's prompt removal is practicable and proper, or for other good cause. The decision and reasons for the delay shall be documented in the alien's custody review file or A file, as appropriate. Reasonable care will be exercised to ensure that the alien's case is reviewed once the reason for delay is remedied or if the alien is not removed from the United States as anticipated at the time review was suspended or postponed.
(4)
Transition provisions.
(i) The provisions of this section apply to cases that have already received the 90-day review. If the alien's last review under the procedures set out in the Executive Associate Commissioner memoranda entitled
Detention Procedures for Aliens Whose Immediate Repatriation is Not Possible or Practicable,
February 3, 1999;
Supplemental Detention Procedures,
April 30, 1999;
Interim Changes and Instructions for Conduct of Post-order Custody Reviews,
August 6, 1999;
Review of Long-term Detainees,
October 22, 1999, was a records review and the alien remains in custody, the HQPDU will conduct a custody review within six months of that review (Memoranda available at
http://www.ins.usdoj.gov
). If the alien's last review included an interview, the HQPDU review will be scheduled one year from the last review. These reviews will be conducted pursuant to the procedures in paragraph (i) of this section, within the time periods specified in this paragraph or as soon as possible thereafter, allowing for resource limitations, unforeseen circumstances, or an emergent situation.
(ii) Any case pending before the Board on December 21, 2000 will be completed by the Board. If the Board affirms the district director's decision to continue the alien in detention, the next scheduled custody review will be conducted one year after the Board's decision in accordance with the procedures in paragraph (i) of this section.
(l)
Revocation of release
—(1)
Violation of conditions of release.
Any alien described in paragraph (a) or (b)(1) of this section who has been released under an order of supervision or other conditions of release who violates the conditions of release may be returned to custody. Any such alien who violates the conditions of an order of supervision is subject to the penalties described in section 243(b) of the Act. Upon revocation, the alien will be notified of the reasons for revocation of his or her release or parole. The alien will be afforded an initial informal interview promptly after his or her return to Service custody to afford the alien an opportunity to respond to the reasons for revocation stated in the notification.
(2)
Determination by the Service.
The Executive Associate Commissioner shall have authority, in the exercise of discretion, to revoke release and return to Service custody an alien previously approved for release under the procedures in this section. A district director may also revoke release of an alien when, in the district director's opinion, revocation is in the public interest and circumstances do not reasonably permit referral of the case to the Executive Associate Commissioner. Release may be revoked in the exercise of discretion when, in the opinion of the revoking official:
(i) The purposes of release have been served;
(ii) The alien violates any condition of release;
(iii) It is appropriate to enforce a removal order or to commence removal proceedings against an alien; or
(iv) The conduct of the alien, or any other circumstance, indicates that release would no longer be appropriate.
(3)
Timing of review when release is revoked.
If the alien is not released from custody following the informal interview provided for in paragraph (l)(1) of this section, the HQPDU Director shall schedule the review process in the case of an alien whose previous release or
parole from immigration custody pursuant to a decision of either the district director, Director of the Detention and Removal Field Office, or Executive Associate Commissioner under the procedures in this section has been or is subject to being revoked. The normal review process will commence with notification to the alien of a records review and scheduling of an interview, which will ordinarily be expected to occur within approximately three months after release is revoked. That custody review will include a final evaluation of any contested facts relevant to the revocation and a determination whether the facts as determined warrant revocation and further denial of release. Thereafter, custody reviews will be conducted annually under the provisions of paragraphs (i), (j), and (k) of this section.
[65 FR 80294, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 56976, 56977, Nov. 14, 2001; 67 FR 39259, June 7, 2002; 70 FR 673, Jan. 5, 2005; 76 FR 53791, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 241.5
Conditions of release after removal period.
(a)
Order of supervision.
An alien released pursuant to § 241.4 shall be released pursuant to an order of supervision. The Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner, Executive Associate Commissioner Field Operations, regional director, district director, acting district director, deputy district director, assistant district director for investigations, assistant district director for detention and deportation, or officer-in-charge may issue Form I-220B, Order of Supervision. The order shall specify conditions of supervision including, but not limited to, the following:
(1) A requirement that the alien report to a specified officer periodically and provide relevant information under oath as directed;
(2) A requirement that the alien continue efforts to obtain a travel document and assist the Service in obtaining a travel document;
(3) A requirement that the alien report as directed for a mental or physical examination or examinations as directed by the Service;
(4) A requirement that the alien obtain advance approval of travel beyond previously specified times and distances; and
(5) A requirement that the alien provide DHS with written notice of any change of address in the prescribed manner.
(b)
Posting of bond.
An officer authorized to issue an order of supervision may require the posting of a bond in an amount determined by the officer to be sufficient to ensure compliance with the conditions of the order, including surrender for removal.
(c)
Employment authorization.
An officer authorized to issue an order of supervision may, in his or her discretion, grant employment authorization to an alien released under an order of supervision if the officer specifically finds that:
(1) The alien cannot be removed in a timely manner; or
(2) The removal of the alien is impracticable or contrary to public interest.
[62 FR 10378, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 65 FR 80298, Dec. 21, 2000; 70 FR 673, Jan. 5, 2005; 76 FR 53791, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 241.6
Administrative stay of removal.
(a) Any request of an alien under a final order of deportation or removal for a stay of deportation or removal shall be filed on Form I-246, Stay of Removal, with the district director having jurisdiction over the place where the alien is at the time of filing. The Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner, Executive Associate Commissioner for Field Operations, Deputy Executive Associate Commissioner for Detention and Removal, the Director of the Office of Juvenile Affairs, regional directors, or district director, in his or her discretion and in consideration of factors listed in 8 CFR 212.5 and section 241(c) of the Act, may grant a stay of removal or deportation for such time and under such conditions as he or she may deem appropriate. Neither the request nor failure to receive notice of disposition of the request shall delay removal or relieve the alien from strict compliance with any outstanding notice to surrender for deportation or removal.
(b) Denial by the Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner, Executive Associate Commissioner for Field Operations, Deputy Executive Associate Commissioner for Detention and Removal, Director of the Office of Juvenile Affairs, regional director, or district director of a request for a stay is not appealable, but such denial shall not preclude an immigration judge or the Board from granting a stay in connection with a previously filed motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider as provided in 8 CFR part 3.
(c) The Service shall take all reasonable steps to comply with a stay granted by an immigration judge or the Board. However, such a stay shall cease to have effect if granted (or communicated) after the alien has been placed aboard an aircraft or other conveyance for removal and the normal boarding has been completed.
[65 FR 80298, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 67 FR 39259, June 7, 2002]
§ 241.7
Self-removal.
A district director, the Deputy Executive Associate Commissioner for Detention and Removal, or the Director of the Office of Juvenile Affairs may permit an alien ordered removed (including an alien ordered excluded or deported in proceedings prior to April 1, 1997) to depart at his or her own expense to a destination of his or her own choice. Any alien who has departed from the United States while an order of deportation or removal is outstanding shall be considered to have been deported, excluded and deported, or removed, except that an alien who departed before the expiration of the voluntary departure period granted in connection with an alternate order of deportation or removal shall not be considered to be so deported or removed.
[67 FR 39260, June 7, 2002]
§ 241.8
Reinstatement of removal orders.
(a)
Applicability.
An alien who illegally reenters the United States after having been removed, or having departed voluntarily, while under an order of exclusion, deportation, or removal shall be removed from the United States by reinstating the prior order. The alien has no right to a hearing before an immigration judge in such circumstances. In establishing whether an alien is subject to this section, the immigration officer shall determine the following:
(1) Whether the alien has been subject to a prior order of removal. The immigration officer must obtain the prior order of exclusion, deportation, or removal relating to the alien.
(2) The identity of the alien,
i.e.
, whether the alien is in fact an alien who was previously removed, or who departed voluntarily while under an order of exclusion, deportation, or removal. In disputed cases, verification of identity shall be accomplished by a comparison of fingerprints between those of the previously excluded, deported, or removed alien contained in Service records and those of the subject alien. In the absence of fingerprints in a disputed case the alien shall not be removed pursuant to this paragraph.
(3) Whether the alien unlawfully reentered the United States. In making this determination, the officer shall consider all relevant evidence, including statements made by the alien and any evidence in the alien's possession. The immigration officer shall attempt to verify an alien's claim, if any, that he or she was lawfully admitted, which shall include a check of Service data systems available to the officer.
(b)
Notice.
If an officer determines that an alien is subject to removal under this section, he or she shall provide the alien with written notice of his or her determination. The officer shall advise the alien that he or she may make a written or oral statement contesting the determination. If the alien wishes to make such a statement, the officer shall allow the alien to do so and shall consider whether the alien's statement warrants reconsideration of the determination.
(c)
Order.
If the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section are met, the alien shall be removed under the previous order of exclusion, deportation, or removal in accordance with section 241(a)(5) of the Act.
(d)
Exception for applicants for benefits under section 902 of HRIFA or sections
202 or 203 of NACARA.
If an alien who is otherwise subject to this section has applied for adjustment of status under either section 902 of Division A of Public Law 105-277, the Haitian Refugee Immigrant Fairness Act of 1998 (HRIFA), or section 202 of Public Law 105-100, the Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act (NACARA), the provisions of section 241(a)(5) of the Immigration and Nationality Act shall not apply. The immigration officer may not reinstate the prior order in accordance with this section unless and until a final decision to deny the application for adjustment has been made. If the application for adjustment of status is granted, the prior order shall be rendered moot.
(e)
Exception for withholding of removal.
If an alien whose prior order of removal has been reinstated under this section expresses a fear of returning to the country designated in that order, the alien shall be immediately referred to an asylum officer for an interview to determine whether the alien has a reasonable fear of persecution or torture pursuant to § 208.31 of this chapter.
(f)
Execution of reinstated order.
Execution of the reinstated order of removal and detention of the alien shall be administered in accordance with this part.
[62 FR 10378, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 8495, Feb. 19, 1999; 66 FR 29451, May 31, 2001]
§ 241.9
Notice to transportation line of alien's removal.
(a) An alien who has been ordered removed shall, immediately or as promptly as the circumstances permit, be offered for removal to the owner, agent, master, commanding officer, person in charge, purser, or consignee of the vessel or aircraft on which the alien is to be removed, as determined by the district director, with a written notice specifying the cause of inadmissibility or deportability, the class of travel in which such alien arrived and is to be removed, and with the return of any documentation that will assist in effecting his or her removal. If special care and attention are required, the provisions of § 241.10 shall apply.
(b) Failure of the carrier to accept for removal an alien who has been ordered removed shall result in the carrier being assessed any costs incurred by the Service for detention after the carrier's failure to accept the alien for removal, including the cost of any transportation as required under section 241(e) of the Act. The User Fee Account shall not be assessed for expenses incurred because of the carrier's violation of the provisions of section 241 of the Act and this paragraph. The Service will, at the carrier's option, retain custody of the alien for an additional 7 days beyond the date of the removal order. If, after the third day of this additional 7-day period, the carrier has not made all the necessary transportation arrangements for the alien to be returned to his or her point of embarkation by the end of the additional 7-day period, the Service will make the arrangements and bill the carrier for its costs.
§ 241.10
Special care and attention of removable aliens.
When, in accordance with section 241(c)(3) of the Act, a transportation line is responsible for the expenses of an inadmissible or deportable alien's removal, and the alien requires special care and attention, the alien shall be delivered to the owner, agent, master, commanding officer, person in charge, purser, or consignee of the vessel or aircraft on which the alien will be removed, who shall be given Forms I-287, I-287A, and I-287B. The reverse of Form I-287A shall be signed by the officer of the vessel or aircraft to whom the alien has been delivered and immediately returned to the immigration officer effecting delivery. Form I-287B shall be retained by the receiving officer and subsequently filled out by the agents or persons therein designated and returned by mail to the district director named on the form. The transportation line shall at its own expense forward the alien from the foreign port of disembarkation to the final destination specified on Form I-287. The special care and attention shall be continued to such final destination, except when the foreign public officers decline to allow such attendant to proceed and they take charge of the alien, in which case this fact shall be recorded by the transportation line on the reverse of
Form I-287B. If the transportation line fails, refuses, or neglects to provide the necessary special care and attention or comply with the directions of Form I-287, the district director shall thereafter and without notice employ suitable persons, at the expense of the transportation line, and effect such removal.
§ 241.11
Detention and removal of stowaways.
(a)
Presentation of stowaways.
The owner, agent, master, commanding officer, charterer, or consignee of a vessel or aircraft (referred to in this section as the carrier) bringing any alien stowaway to the United States is required to detain the stowaway on board the vessel or aircraft, at the expense of the owner of the vessel or aircraft, until completion of the inspection of the alien by an immigration officer. If detention on board the vessel or aircraft pending inspection is not possible, the carrier shall advise the Service of this fact without delay, and the Service may authorize that the carrier detain the stowaway at another designated location, at the expense of the owner, until the immigration officer arrives. No notice to detain the alien shall be required. Failure to detain an alien stowaway pending inspection shall result in a civil penalty under section 243(c)(1)(A) of the Act. The owner, agent, master, commanding officer, charterer, or consignee of a vessel or aircraft must present the stowaway for inspection, along with any documents or evidence of identity or nationality in the possession of the alien or obtained by the carrier relating to the alien stowaway, and must provide any available information concerning the alien's boarding or apprehension.
(b)
Removal of stowaways from vessel or aircraft for medical treatment.
The district director may parole an alien stowaway into the United States for medical treatment, but the costs of detention and treatment of the alien stowaway shall be at the expense of the owner of the vessel or aircraft, and such removal of the stowaway from the vessel or aircraft does not relieve the carrier of the requirement to remove the stowaway from the United States once such medical treatment has been completed.
(c)
Repatriation of stowaways
—(1)
Requirements of carrier.
Following inspection, an immigration officer may order the owner, agent, master, commanding officer, charterer, or consignee of a vessel or aircraft bringing any alien stowaway to the United States to remove the stowaway on the vessel or aircraft of arrival, unless it is impracticable to do so or other factors exist which would preclude removal on the same vessel or aircraft. Such factors may include, but are not limited to, sanitation, health, and safety concerns for the crew and/or stowaway, whether the stowaway is a female or a juvenile, loss of insurance coverage on account of the stowaway remaining aboard, need for repairs to the vessel, and other similar circumstances. If the owner, agent, master, commanding officer, charterer, or consignee requests that he or she be allowed to remove the stowaway by other means, the Service shall favorably consider any such request, provided the carrier has obtained, or will obtain in a timely manner, any necessary travel documents and has made or will make all transportation arrangements. The owner, agent, master, commanding officer, charterer, or consignee shall transport the stowaway or arrange for secure escort of the stowaway to the vessel or aircraft of departure to ensure that the stowaway departs the United States. All expenses relating to removal shall be borne by the owner. Other than requiring compliance with the detention and removal requirements contained in section 241(d)(2) of the Act, the Service shall not impose additional conditions on the carrier regarding security arrangements. Failure to comply with an order to remove an alien stowaway shall result in a civil penalty under section 243(c)(1)(A) of the Act.
(2)
Detention of stowaways ordered removed.
If detention of the stowaway is required pending removal on other than the vessel or aircraft of arrival, or if the stowaway is to be removed on the vessel or aircraft of arrival but departure of the vessel or aircraft is not imminent and circumstances preclude keeping the stowaway on board the vessel or aircraft, the Service shall
take the stowaway into Service custody. The owner is responsible for all costs of maintaining and detaining the stowaway pending removal, including costs for stowaways seeking asylum as described in paragraph (d) of this section. Such costs will be limited to those normally incurred in the detention of an alien by the Service, including, but not limited to, housing, food, transportation, medical expenses, and other reasonable costs incident to the detention of the stowaway. The Service may require the posting of a bond or other surety to ensure payment of costs of detention.
(d)
Stowaways claiming asylum
—(1)
Referral for credible fear determination.
A stowaway who indicates an intention to apply for asylum or a fear of persecution or torture upon return to his or her native country or country of last habitual residence (if not a national of any country) shall be removed from the vessel or aircraft of arrival in accordance with § 208.5(b) of this chapter. The immigration officer shall refer the alien to an asylum officer for a determination of credible fear in accordance with section 235(b)(1)(B) of the Act and § 208.30 of this chapter. The stowaway shall be detained in the custody of the Service pending the credible fear determination and any review thereof. Parole of such alien, in accordance with section 212(d)(5) of the Act, may be permitted only when the Attorney General determines, in the exercise of discretion, that parole is required to meet a medical emergency or is necessary for a legitimate law enforcement objective. A stowaway who has established a credible fear of persecution or torture in accordance with § 208.30 of this chapter may be detained or paroled pursuant to § 212.5 of this chapter during any consideration of the asylum application. In determining whether to detain or parole the alien, the Service shall consider the likelihood that the alien will abscond or pose a security risk.
(2)
Costs of detention of asylum-seeking stowaways.
The owner of the vessel or aircraft that brought the stowaway to the United States shall reimburse the Service for the costs of maintaining and detaining the stowaway pending a determination of credible fear under section 235(b)(1)(B) of the Act, up to a maximum period of 72 hours. The owner is also responsible for the costs of maintaining and detaining the stowaway during the period in which the stowaway is pursuing his or her asylum application, for a maximum period of 15 working days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays. The 15-day period shall begin on the day following the day in which the alien is determined to have a credible fear of persecution by the asylum officer, or by the immigration judge if such review was requested by the alien pursuant to section 235(b)(1)(B)(iii)(III) of the Act, but not later than 72 hours after the stowaway was initially presented to the Service for inspection. Following the determination of credible fear, if the stowaway's application for asylum is not adjudicated within 15 working days, the Service shall pay the costs of detention beyond this time period. If the stowaway is determined not to have a credible fear of persecution, or if the stowaway's application for asylum is denied, including any appeals, the carrier shall be notified and shall arrange for repatriation of the stowaway at the expense of the owner of the vessel or aircraft on which the stowaway arrived.
[62 FR 10378, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 8495, Feb. 19, 1999]
§ 241.12
Nonapplication of costs of detention and maintenance.
The owner of a vessel or aircraft bringing an alien to the United States who claims to be exempt from payment of the costs of detention and maintenance of the alien pursuant to section 241(c)(3)(B) of the Act shall establish to the satisfaction of the district director in charge of the port of arrival that such costs should not be applied. The district director shall afford the owner a reasonable time within which to submit affidavits and briefs to support the claim. There is no appeal from the decision of the district director.
§ 241.13
Determination of whether there is a significant likelihood of removing a detained alien in the reasonably foreseeable future.
(a)
Scope.
This section establishes special review procedures for those aliens who are subject to a final order
of removal and are detained under the custody review procedures provided at § 241.4 after the expiration of the removal period, where the alien has provided good reason to believe there is no significant likelihood of removal to the country to which he or she was ordered removed, or to a third country, in the reasonably foreseeable future.
(b)
Applicability to particular aliens
—(1)
Relationship to § 241.4.
Section 241.4 shall continue to govern the detention of aliens under a final order of removal, including aliens who have requested a review of the likelihood of their removal under this section, unless the Service makes a determination under this section that there is no significant likelihood of removal in the reasonably foreseeable future. The Service may release an alien under an order of supervision under § 241.4 if it determines that the alien would not pose a danger to the public or a risk of flight, without regard to the likelihood of the alien's removal in the reasonably foreseeable future.
(2)
Continued detention pending determinations.
(i) The Service's Headquarters Post-order Detention Unit (HQPDU) shall continue in custody any alien described in paragraph (a) of this section during the time the Service is pursuing the procedures of this section to determine whether there is no significant likelihood the alien can be removed in the reasonably foreseeable future. The HQPDU shall continue in custody any alien described in paragraph (a) of this section for whom it has determined that special circumstances exist and custody procedures under § 241.14 have been initiated.
(ii) The HQPDU has no obligation to release an alien under this section until the HQPDU has had the opportunity during a six-month period, dating from the beginning of the removal period (whenever that period begins and unless that period is extended as provided in section 241(a)(1) of the Act), to make its determination as to whether there is a significant likelihood of removal in the reasonably foreseeable future.
(3)
Limitations.
This section does not apply to:
(i) Arriving aliens, including those who have not entered the United States, those who have been granted immigration parole into the United States, and Mariel Cubans whose parole is governed by § 212.12 of this chapter;
(ii) Aliens subject to a final order of removal who are still within the removal period, including aliens whose removal period has been extended for failure to comply with the requirements of section 241(a)(1)(C) of the Act; or
(iii) Aliens who are ordered removed by the Alien Terrorist Removal Court pursuant to title 5 of the Act.
(c)
Delegation of authority.
The HQPDU shall conduct a review under this section, in response to a request from a detained alien, in order to determine whether there is no significant likelihood that the alien will be removed in the reasonably foreseeable future. If so, the HQPDU shall determine whether the alien should be released from custody under appropriate conditions of supervision or should be referred for a determination under § 241.14 as to whether the alien's continued detention may be justified by special circumstances.
(d)
Showing by the alien
—(1)
Written request.
An eligible alien may submit a written request for release to the HQPDU asserting the basis for the alien's belief that there is no significant likelihood that the alien will be removed in the reasonably foreseeable future. The alien may submit whatever documentation to the HQPDU he or she wishes in support of the assertion that there is no significant likelihood of removal in the reasonably foreseeable future.
(2)
Compliance and cooperation with removal efforts.
The alien shall include with the written request information sufficient to establish his or her compliance with the obligation to effect his or her removal and to cooperate in the process of obtaining necessary travel documents.
(3)
Timing of request.
An eligible alien subject to a final order of removal may submit, at any time after the removal order becomes final, a written request under this section asserting that his or her removal is not significantly likely in the reasonably foreseeable future.
However, the Service may, in the exercise of its discretion, postpone its consideration of such a request until after expiration of the removal period.
(e)
Review by HQPDU
—(1)
Initial response.
Within 10 business days after the HQPDU receives the request (or, if later, the expiration of the removal period), the HQPDU shall respond in writing to the alien, with a copy to counsel of record, by regular mail, acknowledging receipt of the request for a review under this section and explaining the procedures that will be used to evaluate the request. The notice shall advise the alien that the Service may continue to detain the alien until it has made a determination under this section whether there is a significant likelihood the alien can be removed in the reasonably foreseeable future.
(2)
Lack of compliance, failure to cooperate.
The HQPDU shall first determine if the alien has failed to make reasonable efforts to comply with the removal order, has failed to cooperate fully in effecting removal, or has obstructed or hampered the removal process. If so, the HQPDU shall so advise the alien in writing, with a copy to counsel of record by regular mail. The HQPDU shall advise the alien of the efforts he or she needs to make in order to assist in securing travel documents for return to his or her country of origin or a third country, as well as the consequences of failure to make such efforts or to cooperate, including the provisions of section 243(a) of the Act. The Service shall not be obligated to conduct a further consideration of the alien's request for release until the alien has responded to the HQPDU and has established his or her compliance with the statutory requirements.
(3)
Referral to the State Department.
If the HQPDU believes that the alien's request provides grounds for further review, the Service may, in the exercise of its discretion, forward a copy of the alien's release request to the Department of State for information and assistance. The Department of State may provide detailed country conditions information or any other information that may be relevant to whether a travel document is obtainable from the country at issue. The Department of State may also provide an assessment of the accuracy of the alien's assertion that he or she cannot be returned to the country at issue or to a third country. When the Service bases its decision, in whole or in part, on information provided by the Department of State, that information shall be made part of the record.
(4)
Response by alien.
The Service shall permit the alien an opportunity to respond to the evidence on which the Service intends to rely, including the Department of State's submission, if any, and other evidence of record presented by the Service prior to any HQPDU decision. The alien may provide any additional relevant information to the Service, including reasons why his or her removal would not be significantly likely in the reasonably foreseeable future even though the Service has generally been able to accomplish the removal of other aliens to the particular country.
(5)
Interview.
The HQPDU may grant the alien an interview, whether telephonically or in person, if the HQPDU determines that an interview would provide assistance in reaching a decision. If an interview is scheduled, the HQPDU will provide an interpreter upon its determination that such assistance is appropriate.
(6)
Special circumstances.
If the Service determines that there are special circumstances justifying the alien's continued detention notwithstanding the determination that removal is not significantly likely in the reasonably foreseeable future, the Service shall initiate the review procedures in § 241.14, and provide written notice to the alien. In appropriate cases, the Service may initiate review proceedings under § 241.14 before completing the HQPDU review under this section.
(f)
Factors for consideration.
The HQPDU shall consider all the facts of the case including, but not limited to, the history of the alien's efforts to comply with the order of removal, the history of the Service's efforts to remove aliens to the country in question or to third countries, including the ongoing nature of the Service's efforts to
remove this alien and the alien's assistance with those efforts, the reasonably foreseeable results of those efforts, and the views of the Department of State regarding the prospects for removal of aliens to the country or countries in question. Where the Service is continuing its efforts to remove the alien, there is no presumptive period of time within which the alien's removal must be accomplished, but the prospects for the timeliness of removal must be reasonable under the circumstances.
(g)
Decision.
The HQPDU shall issue a written decision based on the administrative record, including any documentation provided by the alien, regarding the likelihood of removal and whether there is a significant likelihood that the alien will be removed in the reasonably foreseeable future under the circumstances. The HQPDU shall provide the decision to the alien, with a copy to counsel of record, by regular mail.
(1)
Finding of no significant likelihood of removal.
If the HQPDU determines at the conclusion of the review that there is no significant likelihood that the alien will be removed in the reasonably foreseeable future, despite the Service's and the alien's efforts to effect removal, then the HQPDU shall so advise the alien. Unless there are special circumstances justifying continued detention, the Service shall promptly make arrangements for the release of the alien subject to appropriate conditions, as provided in paragraph (h) of this section. The Service may require that the alien submit to a medical or psychiatric examination prior to establishing appropriate conditions for release or determining whether to refer the alien for further proceedings under § 214.14 because of special circumstances justifying continued detention. The Service is not required to release an alien if the alien refuses to submit to a medical or psychiatric examination as ordered.
(2)
Denial.
If the HQPDU determines at the conclusion of the review that there is a significant likelihood that the alien will be removed in the reasonably foreseeable future, the HQPDU shall deny the alien's request under this section. The denial shall advise the alien that his or her detention will continue to be governed under the established standards in § 214.4. There is no administrative appeal from the HQPDU decision denying a request from an alien under this section.
(h)
Conditions of release
—(1)
In general.
An alien's release pursuant to an HQPDU determination that the alien's removal is not significantly likely in the reasonably foreseeable future shall be upon appropriate conditions specified in this paragraph and in the order of supervision, in order to protect the public safety and to promote the ability of the Service to effect the alien's removal as ordered, or removal to a third country, should circumstances change in the future. The order of supervision shall include all of the conditions provided in section 241(a)(3) of the Act, and § 241.5, and shall also include the conditions that the alien obey all laws, including any applicable prohibitions on the possession or use of firearms (
see, e.g.,
18 U.S.C. 922(g)); and that the alien continue to seek to obtain travel documents and provide the Service with all correspondence to Embassies/Consulates requesting the issuance of travel documents and any reply from the Embassy/Consulate. The order of supervision may also include any other conditions that the HQPDU considers necessary to ensure public safety and guarantee the alien's compliance with the order of removal, including, but not limited to, attendance at any rehabilitative/sponsorship program or submission for medical or psychiatric examination, as ordered.
(2)
Advice of consequences for violating conditions of release.
The order of supervision shall advise an alien released under this section that he or she must abide by the conditions of release specified by the Service. The order of supervision shall also advise the alien of the consequences of violation of the conditions of release, including the authority to return the alien to custody and the sanctions provided in section 243(b) of the Act.
(3)
Employment authorization.
The Service may, in the exercise of its discretion, grant employment authorization under the same conditions set forth in § 241.5(c) for aliens released under an order of supervision.
(4)
Withdrawal of release approval.
The Service may, in the exercise of its discretion, withdraw approval for release of any alien under this section prior to release in order to effect removal in the reasonably foreseeable future or where the alien refuses to comply with the conditions of release.
(i)
Revocation of release
—(1)
Violation of conditions of release.
Any alien who has been released under an order of supervision under this section who violates any of the conditions of release may be returned to custody and is subject to the penalties described in section 243(b) of the Act. In suitable cases, the HQPDU shall refer the case to the appropriate U.S. Attorney for criminal prosecution. The alien may be continued in detention for an additional six months in order to effect the alien's removal, if possible, and to effect the conditions under which the alien had been released.
(2)
Revocation for removal.
The Service may revoke an alien's release under this section and return the alien to custody if, on account of changed circumstances, the Service determines that there is a significant likelihood that the alien may be removed in the reasonably foreseeable future. Thereafter, if the alien is not released from custody following the informal interview provided for in paragraph (h)(3) of this section, the provisions of § 241.4 shall govern the alien's continued detention pending removal.
(3)
Revocation procedures.
Upon revocation, the alien will be notified of the reasons for revocation of his or her release. The Service will conduct an initial informal interview promptly after his or her return to Service custody to afford the alien an opportunity to respond to the reasons for revocation stated in the notification. The alien may submit any evidence or information that he or she believes shows there is no significant likelihood he or she be removed in the reasonably foreseeable future, or that he or she has not violated the order of supervision. The revocation custody review will include an evaluation of any contested facts relevant to the revocation and a determination whether the facts as determined warrant revocation and further denial of release.
(j)
Subsequent requests for review.
If the Service has denied an alien's request for release under this section, the alien may submit a request for review of his or her detention under this section, six months after the Service's last denial of release under this section. After applying the procedures in this section, the HQPDU shall consider any additional evidence provided by the alien or available to the Service as well as the evidence in the prior proceedings but the HQPDC shall render a
de novo
decision on the likelihood of removing the alien in the reasonably foreseeable future under the circumstances.
[66 FR 56977, Nov. 14, 2001, as amended at 70 FR 673, Jan. 5, 2005]
§ 241.14
Continued detention of removable aliens on account of special circumstances.
(a)
Scope.
The Service may invoke the procedures of this section in order to continue detention of particular removable aliens on account of special circumstances even though there is no significant likelihood that the alien will be removed in the reasonably foreseeable future.
(1)
Applicability.
This section applies to removable aliens as to whom the Service has made a determination under § 241.13 that there is no significant likelihood of removal in the reasonably foreseeable future. This section does not apply to aliens who are not subject to the special review provisions under § 241.13.
(2)
Jurisdiction.
The immigration judges and the Board have jurisdiction with respect to determinations as to whether release of an alien would pose a special danger to the public, as provided in paragraphs (f) through (k) of this section, but do not have jurisdiction with respect to aliens described in paragraphs (b), (c), or (d) of this section.
(b)
Aliens with a highly contagious disease that is a threat to public safety.
If, after a medical examination of the alien, the Service determines that a removable alien presents a threat to public safety initiate efforts with the Public Health Service or proper State and
local government officials to secure appropriate arrangements for the alien's continued medical care or treatment.
(1)
Recommendation.
The Service shall not invoke authority to continue detention of an alien under this paragraph except upon the express recommendation of the Public Health Service. The Service will provide every reasonably available form of treatment while the alien remains in the custody of the Service.
(2)
Conditions of release.
If the Service, in consultation with the Public Health Service and the alien, identifies an appropriate medical facility that will treat the alien, then the alien may be released on condition that he or she continue with appropriate medical treatment until he or she no longer poses a threat to public safety because of a highly contagious disease.
(c)
Aliens detained on account of serious adverse foreign policy consequences of release
—(1)
Certification.
The Service shall continue to detain a removable alien where the Attorney General or Deputy Attorney General has certified in writing that:
(i) Without regard to the grounds upon which the alien has been found inadmissible or removable, the alien is a person described in section 212(a)(3)(C) or section 237(a)(4)(C) of the Act;
(ii) The alien's release is likely to have serious adverse foreign policy consequences for the United States; and
(iii) No conditions of release can reasonably be expected to avoid those serious adverse foreign policy consequences,
(2)
Foreign policy consequences.
A certification by the Attorney General or Deputy Attorney General that an alien should not be released from custody on account of serious adverse foreign policy consequences shall be made only after consultation with the Department of State and upon the recommendation of the Secretary of State.
(3)
Ongoing review.
The certification is subject to ongoing review on a semi-annual basis but is not subject to further administrative review.
(d)
Aliens detained on account of security or terrorism concerns
—(1)
Standard for continued detention.
Subject to the review procedures under this paragraph (d), the Service shall continue to detain a removable alien based on a determination in writing that:
(i) The alien is a person described in section 212(a)(3)(A) or (B) or section 237(a)(4)(A) of (B) of the Act or the alien has engaged or will likely engage in any other activity that endangers the national security;
(ii) The alien's release presents a significant threat to the national security or a significant risk of terrorism; and
(iii) No conditions of release can reasonably be expected to avoid the threat to the national security or the risk of terrorism, as the case may be.
(2)
Procedure.
Prior to the Commissioner's recommendation to the Attorney General under paragraph (d)(5) of this section, the alien shall be notified of the Service's intention to continue the alien in detention and of the alien's right to submit a written statement and additional information for consideration by the Commissioner. The Service shall continue to detain the alien pending the decision of the Attorney General under this paragraph. To the greatest extent consistent with protection of the national security and classified information:
(i) The Service shall provide a description of the factual basis for the alien's continued detention; and
(ii) The alien shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine evidence against him or her, and to present information on his or her own behalf.
(3)
Aliens ordered removed on grounds other than national security or terrorism.
If the alien's final order of removal was based on grounds of inadmissibility other than any of those stated in section 212(a)(3)(A)(i), (A)(iii), or (B) of the Act, or on grounds of deportability other than any of those stated in section 237(a)(4)(A) or (B) of the Act:
(i) An immigration officer shall, if possible, conduct an interview in person and take a sworn question-and-answer statement from the alien, and the Service shall provide an interpreter for such interview, if such assistance is determined to be appropriate; and
(ii) The alien may be accompanied at the interview by an attorney or other representative of his or her choice in
accordance with 8 CFR part 292, at no expense to the government.
(4)
Factors for consideration.
In making a recommendation to the Attorney General that an alien should not be released from custody on account of security or terrorism concerns, the Commissioner shall take into account all relevant information, including but not limited to:
(i) The recommendations of appropriate enforcement officials of the Service, including the director of the Headquarters Post-order Detention Unit (HQPDU), and of the Federal Bureau of Investigation or other federal law enforcement or national security agencies;
(ii) The statements and information submitted by the alien, if any;
(iii) The extent to which the alien's previous conduct (including but not limited to the commission of national security or terrorism-related offenses, engaging in terrorist activity or other activity that poses a danger to the national security and any prior convictions in a federal, state or foreign court) indicates a likelihood that the alien's release would present a significant threat to the national security or a significant risk of terrorism; and
(iv) Other special circumstances of the alien's case indicating that release from detention would present a significant threat to the national security or a significant risk of terrorism.
(5)
Recommendation to the Attorney General.
The Commissioner shall submit a written recommendation and make the record available to the Attorney General. If the continued detention is based on a significant risk of terrorism, the recommendation shall state in as much detail as practicable the factual basis for this determination.
(6)
Attorney General certification.
Based on the record developed by the Service, and upon this recommendation of the Commissioner and the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Attorney General may certify that an alien should continue to be detained on account of security or terrorism grounds as provided in this paragraph (d). Before making such a certification, the Attorney General shall order any further procedures or reviews as may be necessary under the circumstances to ensure the development of a complete record, consistent with the obligations to protect national security and classified information and to comply with the requirements of due process.
(7)
Ongoing review.
The detention decision under this paragraph (d) is subject to ongoing review on a semi-annual basis as provided in this paragraph (d), but is not subject to further administrative review. After the initial certification by the Attorney General, further certifications under paragraph (d)(6) of this section may be made by the Deputy Attorney General.
(e) [Reserved]
(f)
Detention of aliens determined to be specially dangerous
—(1)
Standard for continued detention.
Subject to the review procedures provided in this section, the Service shall continue to detain an alien if the release of the alien would pose a special danger to the public, because:
(i) The alien has previously committed one or more crimes of violence as defined in 18 U.S.C. 16;
(ii) Due to a mental condition or personality disorder and behavior associated with that condition or disorder, the alien is likely to engage in acts of violence in the future; and
(iii) No conditions of release can reasonably be expected to ensure the safety of the public.
(2)
Determination by the Commissioner.
The Service shall promptly initiate review proceedings under paragraph (g) of this section if the Commissioner has determined in writing that the alien's release would pose a special danger to the public, according to the standards of paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
(3)
Medical or mental health examination.
Before making such a determination, the Commissioner shall arrange for a report by a physician employed or designated by the Public Health Service based on a full medical and psychiatric examination of the alien. The report shall include recommendations pertaining to whether, due to a mental condition or personality disorder and behavior associated with that condition or disorder, the alien is likely to engage in acts of violence in the future.
(4)
Detention pending review.
After the Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner has made a determination under this paragraph, the Service shall continue to detain the alien, unless an immigration judge or the Board issues an administratively final decision dismissing the review proceedings under this section.
(g)
Referral to Immigration Judge.
Jurisdiction for an immigration judge to review a determination by the Service pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section that an alien is specially dangerous shall commence with the filing by the Service of a Notice of Referral to the Immigration Judge (Form I-863) with the Immigration Court having jurisdiction over the place of the alien's custody. The Service shall promptly provide to the alien by personal service a copy of the Notice of Referral to the Immigration Judge and all accompanying documents.
(1)
Factual basis.
The Service shall attach a written statement that contains a summary of the basis for the Commissioner's determination to continue to detain the alien, including a description of the evidence relied upon to reach the determination regarding the alien's special dangerousness. The Service shall attach copies of all relevant documents used to reach its decision to continue to detain the alien.
(2)
Notice of reasonable cause hearing.
The Service shall attach a written notice advising the alien that the Service is initiating proceedings for the continued detention of the alien and informing the alien of the procedures governing the reasonable cause hearing, as set forth at paragraph (h) of this section.
(3)
Notice of alien's rights.
The Service shall also provide written notice advising the alien of his or her rights during the reasonable cause hearing and the merits hearing before the Immigration Court, as follows:
(i) The alien shall be provided with a list of free legal services providers, and may be represented by an attorney or other representative of his or her choice in accordance with 8 CFR part 292, at no expense to the Government;
(ii) The Immigration Court shall provide an interpreter for the alien, if necessary, for the reasonable cause hearing and the merits hearing.
(iii) The alien shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine evidence against the alien, to present evidence in the alien's own behalf, and to cross-examine witnesses presented by the Service; and
(iv) The alien shall have the right, at the merits hearing, to cross-examine the author of any medical or mental health reports used as a basis for the determination under paragraph (f) of this section that the alien is specially dangerous.
(4)
Record.
All proceedings before the immigration judge under this section shall be recorded. The Immigration Court shall create a record of proceeding that shall include all testimony and documents related to the proceedings.
(h)
Reasonable cause hearing.
The immigration judge shall hold a preliminary hearing to determine whether the evidence supporting the Service's determination is sufficient to establish reasonable cause to go forward with a merits hearing under paragraph (i) of this section. A finding of reasonable cause under this section will be sufficient to warrant the alien's continued detention pending the completion of the review proceedings under this section.
(1)
Scheduling of hearing.
The reasonable cause hearing shall be commenced not later than 10 business days after the filing of the Form I-863. The Immigration Court shall provide prompt notice to the alien and to the Service of the time and place of the hearing. The hearing may be continued at the request of the alien or his or her representative.
(2)
Evidence.
The Service must show that there is reasonable cause to conduct a merits hearing under a merits hearing under paragraph (i) of this section. The Service may offer any evidence that is material and relevant to the proceeding. Testimony of witnesses, if any, shall be under oath or affirmation. The alien may, but is not required to, offer evidence on his or her own behalf.
(3)
Decision.
The immigration judge shall render a decision, which should be in summary form, within 5 business
days after the close of the record, unless that time is extended by agreement of both parties, by a determination from the Chief Immigration Judge that exceptional circumstances make it impractical to render the decision on a highly expedited basis, or because of delay caused by the alien. If the immigration judge determines that the Service has met its burden of establishing reasonable cause, the immigration judge shall advise the alien and the Service, and shall schedule a merits hearing under paragraph (i) of this section to review the Service's determination that the alien is specially dangerous. If the immigration judge determines that the Service has not met its burden, the immigration judge shall order that the review proceedings under this section be dismissed. The order and any documents offered shall be included in the record of proceedings, and may be relied upon in a subsequent merits hearing.
(4)
Appeal.
If the immigration judge dismisses the review proceedings, the Service may appeal to the Board of Immigration Appeals in accordance with § 3.38 of this chapter, except that the Service must file the Notice of Appeal (Form EOIR-26) with the Board within 2 business days after the immigration judge's order. The Notice of Appeal should state clearly and conspicuously that it is an appeal of a reasonable cause decision under this section.
(i) If the Service reserves appeal of a dismissal of the reasonable cause hearing, the immigration judge's order shall be stayed until the expiration of the time to appeal. Upon the Service's filing of a timely Notice of Appeal, the immigration judge's order shall remain in abeyance pending a final decision of the appeal. The stay shall expire if the Service fails to file a timely Notice of Appeal.
(ii) The Board will decide the Service's appeal, by single Board Member review, based on the record of proceedings before the immigration judge. The Board shall expedite its review as far as practicable, as the highest priority among the appeals filed by detained aliens, and shall determine the issue within 20 business days of the filing of the notice of appeal, unless that time is extended by agreement of both parties, by a determination from the Chairman of the Board that exceptional circumstances make it impractical to render the decision on a highly expedited basis, or because of delay caused by the alien.
(iii) If the Board determines that the Service has met its burden of showing reasonable cause under this paragraph (h), the Board shall remand the case to the immigration judge for the scheduling of a merits hearing under paragraph (i) of this section. If the Board determines that the Service has not met its burden, the Board shall dismiss the review proceedings under this section.
(i)
Merits hearing.
If there is reasonable cause to conduct a merits hearing under this section, the immigration judge shall promptly schedule the hearing and shall expedite the proceedings as far as practicable. The immigration judge shall allow adequate time for the parties to prepare for the merits hearing, but, if requested by the alien, the hearing shall commence within 30 days. The hearing may be continued at the request of the alien or his or her representative, or at the request of the Service upon a showing of exceptional circumstances by the Service.
(1)
Evidence.
The Service shall have the burden of proving, by clear and convincing evidence, that the alien should remain in custody because the alien's release would pose a special danger to the public, under the standards of paragraph (f)(1) of this section. The immigration judge may receive into evidence any oral or written statement that is material and relevant to this determination. Testimony of witnesses shall be under oath or affirmation. The alien may, but is not required to, offer evidence on his or her own behalf.
(2)
Factors for consideration.
In making any determination in a merits hearing under this section, the immigration judge shall consider the following non-exclusive list of factors:
(i) The alien's prior criminal history, particularly the nature and seriousness of any prior crimes involving violence or threats of violence;
(ii) The alien's previous history of recidivism, if any, upon release from either Service or criminal custody;
(iii) The substantiality of the Service's evidence regarding the alien's current mental condition or personality disorder;
(iv) The likelihood that the alien will engage in acts of violence in the future; and
(v) The nature and seriousness of the danger to the public posed by the alien's release.
(3)
Decision.
After the closing of the record, the immigration judge shall render a decision as soon as practicable. The decision may be oral or written. The decision shall state whether or not the Service has met its burden of establishing that the alien should remain in custody because the alien's release would pose a special danger to the public, under the standards of paragraph (f)(1) of this section. The decision shall also include the reasons for the decision under each of the standards of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, although a formal enumeration of findings is not required. Notice of the decision shall be served in accordance with § 240.13(a) or (b).
(i) If the immigration judge determines that the Service has met its burden, the immigration judge shall enter an order providing for the continued detention of the alien.
(ii) If the immigration judge determines that the Service has failed to meet its burden, the immigration judge shall order that the review proceedings under this section be dismissed.
(4)
Appeal.
Either party may appeal an adverse decision to the Board of Immigration Appeals in accordance with § 3.38 of this chapter, except that, if the immigration judge orders dismissal of the proceedings, the Service shall have only 5 business days to file a Notice of Appeal with the Board. The Notice of Appeal should state clearly and conspicuously that this is an appeal of a merits decision under this section.
(i) If the Service reserves appeal of a dismissal, the immigration judge's order shall be stayed until the expiration of the time to appeal. Upon the Service's filing of a timely Notice of Appeal, the immigration judge's order shall remain in abeyance pending a final decision of the appeal. The stay shall expire if the Service fails to file a timely Notice of Appeal.
(ii) The Board shall conduct its review of the appeal as provided in 8 CFR part 3, but shall expedite its review as far as practicable, as the highest priority among the appeals filed by detained aliens. The decision of the Board shall be final as provided in § 3.1(d)(3) of this chapter.
(j)
Release of alien upon dismissal of proceedings.
If there is an administratively final decision by the immigration judge or the Board dismissing the review proceedings under this section upon conclusion of the reasonable cause hearing or the merits hearing, the Service shall promptly release the alien on conditions of supervision, as determined by the Service, pursuant to § 241.13. The conditions of supervision shall not be subject to review by the immigration judge or the Board.
(k)
Subsequent review for aliens whose release would pose a special danger to the public
—(1)
Periodic review.
In any case where the immigration judge or the Board has entered an order providing for the alien to remain in custody after a merits hearing pursuant to paragraph (i) of this section, the Service shall continue to provide an ongoing, periodic review of the alien's continued detention, according to § 241.4 and paragraphs (f)(1)(ii) and (f)(1)(iii) of this section.
(2)
Alien's request for review.
The alien may also request a review of his or her custody status because of changed circumstances, as provided in this paragraph (k). The request shall be in writing and directed to the HQPDU.
(3)
Time for review.
An alien may only request a review of his or her custody status under this paragraph (k) no earlier than six months after the last decision of the immigration judge under this section or, if the decision was appealed, the decision of the Board.
(4)
Showing of changed circumstances.
The alien shall bear the initial burden to establish a material change in circumstances such that the release of the alien would no longer pose a special danger to the public under the standards of paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
(5)
Review by the Service.
If the Service determines, upon consideration of the evidence submitted by the alien and other relevant evidence, that the alien is not likely to commit future
acts of violence or that the Service will be able to impose adequate conditions of release so that the alien will not pose a special danger to the public, the Service shall release the alien from custody pursuant to the procedures in § 241.13. If the Service determines that continued detention is needed in order to protect the public, the Service shall provide a written notice to the alien stating the basis for the Service's determination, and provide a copy of the evidence relied upon by the Service. The notice shall also advise the alien of the right to move to set aside the prior review proceedings under this section.
(6)
Motion to set aside determination in prior review proceedings.
If the Service denies the alien's request for release from custody, the alien may file a motion with the Immigration Court that had jurisdiction over the merits hearing to set aside the determination in the prior review proceedings under this section. The immigration judge shall consider any evidence submitted by the alien or relied upon by the Service and shall provide an opportunity for the Service to respond to the motion.
(i) If the immigration judge determines that the alien has provided good reason to believe that, because of a material change in circumstances, releasing the alien would no longer pose a special danger to the public under the standards of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the immigration judge shall set aside the determination in the prior review proceedings under this section and schedule a new merits hearing as provided in paragraph (i) of this section.
(ii) Unless the immigration judge determines that the alien has satisfied the requirements under paragraph (k)(6)(i) of this section, the immigration judge shall deny the motion. Neither the immigration judge nor the Board may
sua sponte
set aside a determination in prior review proceedings. Notwithstanding 8 CFR 3.23 or 3.2 (motions to reopen), the provisions set forth in this paragraph (k) shall be the only vehicle for seeking review based on material changed circumstances.
(iii) The alien may appeal an adverse decision to the Board in accordance with § 3.38 of this chapter. The Notice of Appeal should state clearly and conspicuously that this is an appeal of a denial of a motion to set aside a prior determination in review proceedings under this section.
[66 FR 56979, Nov. 14, 2001]
§ 241.15
Countries to which aliens may be removed.
(a)
Country.
For the purposes of section 241(b) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1231(b)), the Secretary retains discretion to remove an alien to any country described in section 241(b) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1231(b)), without regard to the nature or existence of a government.
(b)
Acceptance.
For the purposes of section 241(b) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1231(b)), the Secretary retains discretion to determine the effect, if any, of acceptance or lack thereof, when an acceptance by a country is required, and what constitutes sufficient acceptance.
(c)
Absence or lack of response.
The absence of or lack of response from a de jure or functioning government (whether recognized by the United States, or otherwise) or a body acting as a de jure or functioning government in the receiving country does not preclude the removal of an alien to a receiving country.
(d)
Prior commitment.
No commitment of acceptance by the receiving country is required prior to designation of the receiving country, before travel arrangements are made, or before the alien is transported to the receiving country.
(e)
Specific provisions regarding acceptance.
Where the Department cannot remove an alien under section 241(b)(2)(A)-(D) of the Act, acceptance is not required to remove an alien to a receiving country pursuant to section 241(b)(2)(E)(i)-(vi) of the Act. Where the Department cannot remove an arriving alien under section 241(b)(1)(A) or (B) of the Act, acceptance is not required to remove an alien to a receiving country pursuant to section 241(b)(1)(C)(i)-(iii) of the Act.
(f)
Interest of the United States controlling.
The Secretary or his designee may designate a country previously identified in section 241(b)(2)(A)-(D) of the Act when selecting a removal country under section 241(b)(2)(E) of the Act (and may designate a country previously identified in section 241(b)(1)(A)
or (B) of the Act when selecting an alternative removal country under subsection 241(b)(1)(C) of the Act) if the Secretary or his designee determines that such designation is in the best interests of the United States.
(g)
Limitation on construction.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to create any substantive or procedural right or benefit that is legally enforceable by any party against the United States or its agencies or officers or any other person.
[70 FR 673, Jan. 5, 2005]
§§ 241.16-241.19
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Deportation of Excluded Aliens (for Hearings Commenced Prior to April 1, 1997)
§ 241.20
Proceedings commenced prior to April 1, 1997.
Subpart B of 8 CFR part 241 applies to exclusion proceedings commenced prior to April 1, 1997. All references to the Act contained in this subpart are references to the Act in effect prior to April 1, 1997.
§ 241.21
Stay of deportation of excluded alien.
The district director in charge of the port of arrival may stay the immediate deportation of an excluded alien pursuant to sections 237 (a) and (d) of the Act under such conditions as he or she may prescribe.
§ 241.22
Notice to surrender for deportation.
An alien who has been finally excluded pursuant to 8 CFR part 240, subpart D may at any time surrender himself or herself to the custody of the Service and shall surrender to such custody upon notice in writing of the time and place for his or her surrender. The Service may take the alien into custody at any time. An alien taken into custody either upon notice to surrender or by arrest shall not be deported less than 72 hours thereafter without his or her consent thereto filed in writing with the district director in charge of the place of his or her detention. An alien in foreign contiguous territory shall be informed that he or she may remain there in lieu of surrendering to the Service, but that he or she will be deemed to have acknowledged the execution of the order of exclusion and deportation in his or her case upon his or her failure to surrender at the time and place prescribed.
§ 241.23
Cost of maintenance not assessed.
A claim pursuant to section 237(a)(1) of the Act shall be established to the satisfaction of the district director in charge of the port of arrival, from whose adverse decision no appeal shall lie. The district director shall afford the line a reasonable time within which to submit affidavits and briefs to support its claim.
§ 241.24
Notice to transportation line of alien's exclusion.
(a) An excluded alien shall, immediately or as promptly as the circumstances permit, be offered for deportation to the master, commanding officer, purser, person in charge, agent, owner, or consignee of the vessel or aircraft on which the alien is to be deported, as determined by the district director, with a written notice specifying the cause of exclusion, the class of travel in which such alien arrived and is to be deported, and with the return of any documentation that will assist in effecting his or her deportation. If special care and attention are required, the provisions of § 241.10 shall apply.
(b) Failure of the carrier to accept for removal an alien who has been ordered excluded and deported shall result in the carrier being assessed any costs incurred by the Service for detention after the carrier's failure to accept the alien for removal including the cost of any transportation. The User Fee Account shall not be assessed for expenses incurred because of the carrier's violation of the provisions of section 237 of the Act and this paragraph. The Service will, at the carrier's option, retain custody of the excluded alien for an additional 7 days beyond the date of the deportation/exclusion order. If, after the third day of this additional 7-day period, the carrier has
not made all the necessary transportation arrangements for the excluded alien to be returned to his or her point of embarkation by the end of the additional 7-day period, the Service will make the arrangements and bill the carrier for its costs.
§ 241.25
Deportation.
(a)
Definitions of terms.
For the purposes of this section, the following terms mean:
(1)
Adjacent island
—as defined in section 101(b)(5) of the Act.
(2)
Foreign contiguous territory
—any country sharing a common boundary with the United States.
(3)
Residence in foreign contiguous territory or adjacent island
—any physical presence, regardless of intent, in a foreign contiguous territory or an adjacent island if the government of such territory or island agrees to accept the alien.
(4)
Aircraft or vessel
—any conveyance and other mode of travel by which arrival is effected.
(5)
Next available flight
—the carrier's next regularly scheduled departure to the excluded alien's point of embarkation regardless of seat availability. If the carrier's next regularly scheduled departure to the excluded aliens point of embarkation is full, the carrier has the option of arranging for return transportation on other carriers which service the excluded aliens point of embarkation.
(b)
Place to which deported.
Any alien (other than an alien crewmember or an alien who boarded an aircraft or vessel in foreign contiguous territory or an adjacent island) who is ordered excluded shall be deported to the country where the alien boarded the vessel or aircraft on which the alien arrived in the United States. Otherwise, the Secretary may, as a matter of discretion, deport the alien to the country of which the alien is a subject, citizen, or national; the country where the alien was born; the country where the alien has a residence; or any other country.
(c)
Contiguous territory and adjacent islands.
Any alien ordered excluded who boarded an aircraft or vessel in foreign contiguous territory or in any adjacent island shall be deported to such foreign contiguous territory or adjacent island if the alien is a native, citizen, subject, or national of such foreign contiguous territory or adjacent island, or if the alien has a residence in such foreign contiguous territory or adjacent island. Otherwise, the alien shall be deported, in the first instance, to the country in which is located the port at which the alien embarked for such foreign contiguous territory or adjacent island.
(d)
Land border pedestrian arrivals.
Any alien ordered excluded who arrived at a land border on foot shall be deported in the same manner as if the alien had boarded a vessel or aircraft in foreign contiguous territory.
[62 FR 10378, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 70 FR 673, Jan. 5, 2005]
§§ 241.26-241.29
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Deportation of Aliens in the United States (for Hearings Commenced Prior to April 1, 1997)
§ 241.30
Proceedings commenced prior to April 1, 1997.
Subpart C of 8 CFR part 241 applies to deportation proceedings commenced prior to April 1, 1997. All references to the Act contained in this subpart are references to the Act in effect prior to April 1, 1997.
§ 241.31
Final order of deportation.
An order of deportation becomes final in accordance with 8 CFR 1241.31.
[70 FR 673, Jan. 5, 2005]
§ 241.32
Warrant of deportation.
A Form I-205, Warrant of Deportation, based upon the final administrative order of deportation in the alien's case shall be issued by a district director. The district director shall exercise the authority contained in section 243 of the Act to determine at whose expense the alien shall be deported and whether his or her mental or physical condition requires personal care and attention en route to his or her destination.
§ 241.33
Expulsion.
(a)
Execution of order.
Except in the exercise of discretion by the district director, and for such reasons as are set forth in § 212.5(b) of this chapter, once an order of deportation becomes final, an alien shall be taken into custody and the order shall be executed. An order of deportation becomes final in accordance with 8 CFR 1241.31.
(b)
Service of decision.
In the case of an order entered by any of the authorities enumerated above, the order shall be executed no sooner than 72 hours after service of the decision, regardless of whether the alien is in Service custody, provided that such period may be waived on the knowing and voluntary request of the alien. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed, however, to preclude assumption of custody by the Service at the time of issuance of the final order.
[62 FR 10378, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 65 FR 82256, Dec. 28, 2000; 70 FR 674, Jan. 5, 2005]
PARTS 242-243 [RESERVED]
Pt. 244

# PART 244—TEMPORARY PROTECTED STATUS FOR NATIONALS OF DESIGNATED STATES
Sec.
244.1
Definitions.
244.2
Eligibility.
244.3
Applicability of grounds of inadmissibility.
244.4
Ineligible aliens.
244.5
Temporary treatment benefits for eligible aliens.
244.6
Application.
244.7
Filing the application.
244.8
Appearance.
244.9
Evidence.
244.10
Decision and appeal.
244.11
Renewal of application; appeal to the Board of Immigration Appeals.
244.12
Employment authorization.
244.13
Termination of temporary treatment benefits.
244.14
Withdrawal of Temporary Protected Status.
244.15
Travel abroad.
244.16
Confidentiality.
244.17
Periodic registration.
244.18
Issuance of charging documents; detention.
244.19
Termination of designation.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1254, 1254a note, 8 CFR part 2.
§ 244.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Brief, casual, and innocent absence
means a departure from the United States that satisfies the following criteria:
(1) Each such absence was of short duration and reasonably calculated to accomplish the purpose(s) for the absence;
(2) The absence was not the result of an order of deportation, an order of voluntary departure, or an administrative grant of voluntary departure without the institution of deportation proceedings; and
(3) The purposes for the absence from the United States or actions while outside of the United States were not contrary to law.
Charging document
means the written instrument which initiates a proceeding before an Immigration Judge. For proceedings initiated prior to April 1, 1997, these documents include an Order to Show Cause, a Notice to Applicant for Admission Detained for Hearing before Immigration Judge, and a Notice of Intention to Rescind and Request for Hearing by Alien. For proceedings initiated after April 1, 1997, these documents include a Notice to Appear, a Notice of Referral to Immigration Judge, and a Notice of Intention to Rescind and Request for Hearing by Alien.
Continuously physically present
means actual physical presence in the United States for the entire period specified in the regulations. An alien shall not be considered to have failed to maintain continuous physical presence in the United States by virtue of brief, casual, and innocent absences as defined within this section.
Continuously resided
means residing in the United States for the entire period specified in the regulations. An alien shall not be considered to have failed to maintain continuous residence in the United States by reason of a brief, casual and innocent absence as defined within this section or due merely to a brief temporary trip abroad required by emergency or extenuating circumstances outside the control of the alien.
Felony
means a crime committed in the United States, punishable by imprisonment for a term of more than one year, regardless of the term such alien actually served, if any, except: When the offense is defined by the State as a misdemeanor and the sentence actually imposed is one year or less regardless of the term such alien actually served. Under this exception for purposes of section 244 of the Act, the crime shall be treated as a misdemeanor.
Foreign state
means any foreign country or part thereof as designated by the Attorney General pursuant to section 244 of the Act.
Misdemeanor
means a crime committed in the United States, either:
(1) Punishable by imprisonment for a term of one year or less, regardless of the term such alien actually served, if any, or
(2) A crime treated as a misdemeanor under the term “felony” of this section.
For purposes of this definition, any crime punishable by imprisonment for a maximum term of five days or less shall not be considered a felony or misdemeanor.
Prima facie
means eligibility established with the filing of a completed application for Temporary Protected Status containing factual information that if unrebutted will establish a claim of eligibility under section 244 of the Act.
Register
means to properly file, with the director, a completed application, with proper fee, for Temporary Protected Status during the registration period designated under section 244(b) of the Act.
[56 FR 619, Jan. 7, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 23497, May 22, 1991. Redesignated at 62 FR 10367, 10382, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 63595, Nov. 16, 1998; 64 FR 4781, Feb. 1, 1999]
§ 244.2
Eligibility.
Except as provided in §§ 244.3 and 244.4, an alien may in the discretion of the director be granted Temporary Protected Status if the alien establishes that he or she:
(a) Is a national, as defined in section 101(a)(21) of the Act, of a foreign state designated under section 244(b) of the Act;
(b) Has been continuously physically present in the United States since the effective date of the most recent designation of that foreign state;
(c) Has continuously resided in the United States since such date as the Attorney General may designate;
(d) Is admissible as an immigrant except as provided under § 244.3;
(e) Is not ineligible under § 244.4; and
(f)(1) Registers for Temporary Protected Status during the initial registration period announced by public notice in the
Federal Register,
or
(2) During any subsequent extension of such designation if at the time of the initial registration period:
(i) The applicant is a nonimmigrant or has been granted voluntary departure status or any relief from removal;
(ii) The applicant has an application for change of status, adjustment of status, asylum, voluntary departure, or any relief from removal which is pending or subject to further review or appeal;
(iii) The applicant is a parolee or has a pending request for reparole; or
(iv) The applicant is a spouse or child of an alien currently eligible to be a TPS registrant.
(3) Eligibility for late initial registration in a currently designated foreign state shall also continue until January 15, 1999, for any applicant who would have been eligible to apply previously if paragraph (f)(2) of this section as revised had been in effect before November 16, 1998.
(g) Has filed an application for late registration with the appropriate Service director within a 60-day period immediately following the expiration or termination of conditions described in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
[63 FR 63595, Nov. 16, 1998]
§ 244.3
Applicability of grounds of inadmissibility.
(a)
Grounds of inadmissibility not to be applied.
Paragraphs (4), (5) (A) and (B), and (7)(A)(i) of section 212(a) of the Act shall not render an alien ineligible for Temporary Protected Status.
(b)
Waiver of grounds of inadmissibility.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, USCIS may waive any other provision of section 212(a) of the Act in the case of individual aliens for
humanitarian purposes, to assure family unity, or when the granting of such a waiver is in the public interest. If an alien is inadmissible on grounds which may be waived as set forth in this paragraph, he or she shall be advised of the procedures for applying for a waiver.
(c)
Grounds of inadmissibility that may not be waived.
USCIS may not waive the following provisions of section 212(a) of the Act:
(1) Paragraphs (2)(A)(i), (2)(B), and (2)(C) (relating to criminals and drug offenses);
(2) Paragraphs (3)(A), (3)(B), (3)(C), and (3)(D) (relating to national security); or
(3) Paragraph (3)(E) (relating to those who assisted in the Nazi persecution).
[56 FR 619, Jan. 7, 1991, as amended at 58 FR 58937, Nov. 5, 1993. Redesignated at 62 FR 10367, 10382, Mar. 6, 1997; 76 FR 53791, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 244.4
Ineligible aliens.
An alien is ineligible for Temporary Protected Status if the alien:
(a) Has been convicted of any felony or two or more misdemeanors, as defined in § 244.1, committed in the United States, or
(b) Is an alien described in section 208(b)(2)(A) of the Act.
[56 FR 619, Jan. 7, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 23497, May 22, 1991. Redesignated at 62 FR 10367, 10382, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 63596, Nov. 16, 1998; 76 FR 53791, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 244.5
Temporary treatment benefits for eligible aliens.
(a)
Prior to the registration period.
Prior to the registration period established by DHS, a national of a foreign state designated by DHS shall be afforded temporary treatment benefits upon the filing, after the effective date of such designation, of a completed application for Temporary Protected Status which establishes the alien's
prima facie
eligibility for benefits under section 244 of the Act. This application may be filed without fee. Temporary treatment benefits, if granted, shall terminate unless the registration fee is paid or a waiver is sought within the first thirty days of the registration period designated by DHS. If the registration fee is paid or a waiver is sought within such thirty day period, temporary treatment benefits shall continue until terminated under § 244.13. The denial of temporary treatment benefits prior to the registration period designated by DHS shall be without prejudice to the filing of an application for Temporary Protected Status during such registration period.
(b)
During the registration period.
Upon the filing of an application for Temporary Protected Status, the alien shall be afforded temporary treatment benefits, if the application establishes the alien's
prima facie
eligibility for Temporary Protected Status. Such temporary treatment benefits shall continue until terminated under § 244.13.
(c)
Denied benefits.
There shall be no appeal from the denial of temporary treatment benefits.
[56 FR 619, May 22, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 23497, May 22, 1991. Redesignated at 62 FR 10367, 10382, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 63596, Nov. 16, 1998; 76 FR 53791, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 244.6
Application.
(a) An application for Temporary Protected Status (TPS) must be submitted in accordance with the form instructions, the applicable country-specific
Federal Register
notice that announces the procedures for TPS registration or re-registration and, except as otherwise provided in this section, with the appropriate fees as described in 8 CFR part 106.
(b) An applicant for TPS may also request an employment authorization document under 8 CFR part 274a by filing an Application for Employment Authorization in accordance with the form instructions and in accordance with 8 CFR 106.2 and 106.3.
[85 FR 46926, Aug. 3, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 6399, Jan. 31, 2024]
§ 244.7
Filing the application.
(a) An application for Temporary Protected Status must be filed on the form designated by USCIS with any prescribed fees and in accordance with the form instructions.
(b) An application for Temporary Protected Status must be filed during the registration period established by DHS, except in the case of an alien described in § 244.2(f)(2).
(c) Each applicant must pay a fee, as determined at the time of the designation of the foreign state, except as provided in § 244.5(a).
(d) If the alien has a pending deportation or exclusion proceeding before the immigration judge or Board of Immigration Appeals at the time a foreign state is designated under section 244(b) of the Act, the alien shall be given written notice concerning Temporary Protected Status. Such alien shall have the opportunity to submit an application for Temporary Protected Status to the director under paragraph (a) of this section during the published registration period unless the basis of the charging document, if established, would render the alien ineligible for Temporary Protected Status under § 244.3(c) or § 244.4. Eligibility for Temporary Protected Status in the latter instance shall be decided by the Executive Office for Immigration Review during such proceedings.
[63 FR 63596, Nov. 16, 1998, as amended at 74 FR 26940, June 5, 2009; 76 FR 53791, Aug. 29, 2011; 76 FR 73477, Nov. 29, 2011]
§ 244.8
Appearance.
The applicant may be required to appear in person before an immigration officer. The applicant may be required to present documentary evidence to establish his or her eligibility. The applicant may have a representative as defined in § 292.1 of this chapter present during any examination. Such representative shall not directly participate in the examination; however, such representative may consult with and provide advice to the applicant. The record of examination shall consist of the application, documents relating to the application, and the decision of the director.
[56 FR 619, Jan. 7, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 23497, May 22, 1991. Redesignated at 62 FR 10367, 10382, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 63596, Nov. 16, 1998]
§ 244.9
Evidence.
(a)
Documentation.
Applicants shall submit all documentation as required in the instructions or requested by the Service. The Service may require proof of unsuccessful efforts to obtain documents claimed to be unavailable. If any required document is unavailable, an affidavit or other credible evidence may be submitted.
(1)
Evidence of identity and nationality.
Each application must be accompanied by evidence of the applicant's identity and nationality, if available. If these documents are unavailable, the applicant shall file an affidavit showing proof of unsuccessful efforts to obtain such identity documents, explaining why the consular process is unavailable, and affirming that he or she is a national of the designated foreign state. A personal interview before an immigration officer shall be required for each applicant who fails to provide documentary proof of identity or nationality. During this interview, the applicant may present any secondary evidence that he or she feels would be helpful in showing nationality. Acceptable evidence in descending order of preference may consist of:
(i) Passport;
(ii) Birth certificate accompanied by photo identification; and/or
(iii) Any national identity document from the alien's country of origin bearing photo and/or fingerprint.
(2)
Proof of residence.
Evidence to establish proof of continuous residence in the United States during the requisite period of time may consist of any of the following:
(i) Employment records, which may consist of pay stubs, W-2 Forms, certification of the filing of Federal, State, or local income tax returns; letters from employer(s) or, if the applicant has been self employed, letters from banks, and other firms with whom he or she has done business. In all of the above, the name of the alien and the name of the employer or other interested organization must appear on the form or letter, as well as relevant dates. Letters from employers must be in affidavit form, and shall be signed and attested to by the employer under penalty of perjury. Such letters from employers must include:
(A) Alien's address(es) at the time of employment;
(B) Exact period(s) of employment;
(C) Period(s) of layoff; and
(D) Duties with the company.
(ii) Rent receipts, utility bills (gas, electric, telephone, etc.), receipts, or letters from companies showing the
dates during which the applicant received service;
(iii) School records (letters, report cards, etc.) from the schools that the applicant or his or her children have attended in the United States showing name of school and period(s) of school attendance;
(iv) Hospital or medical records showing medical treatment or hospitalization of the applicant or his or her children, showing the name of the medical facility or physician as well as the date(s) of the treatment or hospitalization;
(v) Attestations by churches, unions, or other organizations of the applicant's residence by letter which:
(A) Identifies applicant by name;
(B) Is signed by an official whose title is also shown;
(C) Shows inclusive dates of membership;
(D) States the address where applicant resided during the membership period;
(E) Includes the seal of the organization impressed on the letter or is on the letterhead of the organization, if the organization has letterhead stationery;
(F) Establishes how the attestor knows the applicant; and
(G) Establishes the origin of the information being attested to.
(vi) Additional documents to support the applicant's claim, which may include:
(A) Money order receipts for money sent in or out of the country;
(B) Passport entries;
(C) Birth certificates of children born in the United States;
(D) Bank books with dated transactions;
(E) Correspondence between the applicant and other persons or organizations;
(F) Social Security card;
(G) Selective Service card;
(H) Automobile license receipts, title, vehicle registration, etc.;
(I) Deeds, mortgages, contracts to which applicant has been a party;
(J) Tax receipts;
(K) Insurance policies, receipts, or letters; and/or
(L) Any other relevant document.
(3)
Evidence of eligibility under section 244(c)(2) of the Act.
An applicant has the burden of showing that he or she is eligible for benefits under this part.
(4)
Evidence of valid immigrant or nonimmigrant status.
In the case of an alien described in § 244.2(f)(2), evidence of admission for lawful permanent residence or nonimmigrant status must be submitted by the applicant.
(b)
Sufficiency of evidence.
The sufficiency of all evidence will be judged according to its relevancy, consistency, credibility, and probative value. To meet his or her burden of proof the applicant must provide supporting documentary evidence of eligibility apart from his or her own statements.
(c)
Failure to timely respond.
Failure to timely respond to a request for information, or to appear for a scheduled interview, without good cause, will be deemed an abandonment of the application and will result in a denial of the application for lack of prosecution. Such failure shall be excused if the request for information, or the notice of the interview was not mailed to the applicant's most recent address provided to the Service.
[56 FR 619, Jan. 7, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 23497, May 22, 1991; 58 FR 58937, Nov. 5, 1993. Redesignated at 62 FR 10367, 10382, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 63596, Nov. 16, 1998; 76 FR 53791, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 244.10
Decision and appeal.
(a)
Temporary treatment benefits.
USCIS will grant temporary treatment benefits to the applicant if the applicant establishes prima facie eligibility for Temporary Protected Status in accordance with 8 CFR 244.5.
(b)
Temporary Protected Status.
Upon review of the evidence presented, USCIS may approve or deny the application for Temporary Protected Status in the exercise of discretion, consistent with the standards for eligibility in 8 CFR 244.2, 244.3, and 244.4.
(c)
Denial.
The initial decision to deny Temporary Protected Status, a waiver of inadmissibility, or temporary treatment benefits shall be in writing served in person or by mail to the alien's most recent address provided to the Service and shall state the reason(s) for the denial. Except as otherwise provided in this section, the alien
will be given written notice of his or her right to appeal. If an appeal is filed, the administrative record shall be forwarded to the USCIS AAO for review and decision, except as otherwise provided in this section.
(1) If the basis for the denial of the Temporary Protected Status constitutes a ground for deportability or inadmissibility which renders the alien ineligible for Temporary Protected Status under § 244.4 or inadmissible under § 244.3(c), the decision shall include a charging document which sets forth such ground(s).
(2) If such a charging document is issued, the alien shall not have the right to appeal the USCIS decision denying Temporary Protected Status as provided in 8 CFR 103.3. However, the decision will also apprise the alien of his or her right to a
de novo
determination of his or her eligibility for Temporary Protected Status in removal proceedings pursuant to section 240 of the Act and 8 CFR 1244.18.
(d)
Administrative appeal.
The appellate decision will be served in accordance with 8 CFR 103.8. If the appeal is dismissed, the decision must state the reasons for dismissal.
(1) If the appeal is dismissed on appeal under 8 CFR 244.18(b), the decision shall also apprise the alien of his or her right to a
de novo
determination of eligibility for Temporary Protected Status in removal proceedings pursuant to section 240 of the Act and 8 CFR 1244.18.
(2) If the appeal is dismissed, USCIS may issue a charging document if no charging document is presently filed with the Immigration Court.
(3) If a charging document has previously been filed or is pending before the Immigration Court, either party may move to re-calendar the case after the administrative appeal is dismissed.
(e)
Grant of temporary treatment benefits.
(1) Temporary treatment benefits shall be evidenced by the issuance of an employment authorization document. The alien shall be given, in English and in the language of the designated foreign state or a language that the alien understands, a notice of the registration requirements for Temporary Protected Status and a notice of the following benefits:
(i) Temporary stay of deportation; and
(ii) Temporary employment authorization.
(2) Unless terminated under § 244.13, temporary treatment benefits shall remain in effect until a final decision has been made on the application for Temporary Protected Status.
(f)
Grant of temporary protected status.
(1) The decision to grant Temporary Protected Status shall be evidenced by the issuance of an alien registration document. For those aliens requesting employment authorization, the employment authorization document will act as alien registration.
(2) The alien shall be provided with a notice, in English and in the language of the designated foreign state or a language that the alien understands, of the following benefits:
(i) The alien shall not be deported while maintaining Temporary Protected Status;
(ii) Employment authorization;
(iii) The privilege to travel abroad with the prior consent of the director as provided in § 244.15;
(iv) For the purposes of adjustment of status under section 245 of the Act and change of status under section 248 of the Act, the alien is considered as being in, and maintaining, lawful status as a nonimmigrant while the alien maintains Temporary Protected Status.
(v) An alien eligible to apply for Temporary Protected Status under § 244.2(f)(2), who was prevented from filing a late application for registration because the regulations failed to provide him or her with this opportunity, will be considered to have been maintaining lawful status as a nonimmigrant until the benefit is granted.
(3) The benefits contained in the notice are the only benefits the alien is entitled to under Temporary Protected Status.
(4) Such notice shall also advise the alien of the following:
(i) The alien must remain eligible for Temporary Protected Status;
(ii) The alien must register annually with the district office or service center having jurisdiction over the alien's place of residence; and
(iii) The alien's failure to comply with paragraphs (f)(4) (i) or (ii) of this section will result in the withdrawal of Temporary Protected Status, including work authorization granted under this Program, and may result in the alien's deportation from the United States.
[56 FR 619, Jan. 7, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 23497, May 22, 1991; 58 FR 58937, Nov. 5, 1993; 60 FR 34090, June 30, 1995. Redesignated at 62 FR 10367, 10382, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 63596, Nov. 16, 1998; 64 FR 4782, Feb. 1, 1999; 76 FR 53791, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 244.11
Renewal of application; appeal to the Board of Immigration Appeals.
If a charging document is served on the alien with a notice of denial or withdrawal of Temporary Protected Status, an alien may renew the application for Temporary Protected Status in deportation or exclusion proceedings. The decision of the immigration judge as to eligibility for Temporary Protected Status may be appealed to the Board of Immigration Appeals pursuant to 8 CFR 1003. The provisions of this section do not extend the benefits of Temporary Protected Status beyond the termination of a foreign state's designation pursuant to § 244.19.
[56 FR 619, Jan. 7, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 23497, May 22, 1991. Redesignated at 62 FR 10367, 10382, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 63596, Nov. 16, 1998; 76 FR 53792, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 244.12
Employment authorization.
(a) Upon approval of an application for Temporary Protected Status, USCIS shall grant an employment authorization document valid during the initial period of the foreign state's designation (and any extensions of such period).
(b) If the alien's Temporary Protected Status is withdrawn under § 244.14, employment authorization expires upon notice of withdrawal or on the date stated on the employment authorization document, whichever occurs later.
(c) If Temporary Protected Status is denied by USCIS, employment authorization shall terminate upon notice of denial or at the expiration of the employment authorization document, whichever occurs later.
(d) If the application is renewed or appealed in deportation or exclusion proceedings, or pending administrative appeal pursuant to § 244.18(b), employment authorization will be extended during the pendency of the renewal and/or appeal.
[56 FR 619, Jan. 7, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 23498, May 22, 1991; 60 FR 21975, May 4, 1995. Redesignated at 62 FR 10367, 10382, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 63596, Nov. 16, 1998; 64 FR 4782, Feb. 1, 1999; 76 FR 53792, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 244.13
Termination of temporary treatment benefits.
(a) Temporary treatment benefits terminate upon a final determination with respect to the alien's eligibility for Temporary Protected Status.
(b) Temporary treatment benefits terminate, in any case, sixty (60) days after the date that notice is published of the termination of a foreign state's designation under section 244(b)(3) of the Act.
[56 FR 619, Jan. 7, 1991. Redesignated at 62 FR 10367, 10382, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 63596, Nov. 16, 1998]
§ 244.14
Withdrawal of Temporary Protected Status.
(a)
Authority of USCIS.
USCIS may withdraw the status of an alien granted Temporary Protected Status under section 244 of the Act at any time upon the occurrence of any of the following:
(1) The alien was not in fact eligible at the time such status was granted, or at any time thereafter becomes ineligible for such status;
(2) The alien has not remained continuously physically present in the United States from the date the alien was first granted Temporary Protected Status under this part. For the purpose of this provision, an alien granted Temporary Protected Status under this part shall be deemed not to have failed to maintain continuous physical presence in the United States if the alien departs the United States after first obtaining permission from USCIS to travel pursuant to § 244.15;
(3) The alien fails without good cause to register with DHS annually within thirty (30) days before the end of each 12-month period after the granting of Temporary Protected Status.
(b)
Decision by USCIS.
(1) Withdrawal of an alien's status under paragraph (a) of this section shall be in writing and served by personal service pursuant to 8 CFR 103.8(a)(2). If the ground for withdrawal is 8 CFR 244.14(a)(3), the notice shall provide that the alien has thirty (30) days within which to provide evidence of good cause for failure to register. If the alien fails to respond within thirty (30) days, Temporary Protected Status shall be withdrawn without further notice.
(2) Withdrawal of the alien's Temporary Protected Status under paragraph (b)(1) of this section may subject the applicant to exclusion or deportation proceedings under sections 235, 236, 237, 238, 240, or 241 of the Act as appropriate.
(3) If the basis for the withdrawal of Temporary Protected Status constitutes a ground of deportability or excludability which renders an alien ineligible for Temporary Protected Status under § 244.4 or inadmissible under § 244.3(c), the decision shall include a charging document which sets forth such ground(s) with notice of the right of a
de novo
determination of eligibility for Temporary Protected Status in deportation or exclusion proceedings. If the basis for withdrawal does not constitute such a ground, the alien shall be given written notice of his or her right to appeal to the AAU. Upon receipt of an appeal, the administrative record will be forwarded to the AAU for review and decision pursuant to the authority delegated under § 103.1(f)(2). Temporary Protected Status benefits will be extended during the pendency of an appeal.
(c)
Decision by AAU.
If a decision to withdraw Temporary Protected Status is entered by the AAU, the AAU shall notify the alien of the decision and the right to a
de novo
determination of eligibility for Temporary Protected Status in deportation or exclusion proceedings, if the alien is then deportable or excludable, as provided by § 244.10(d).
[56 FR 619, Jan. 7, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 23498, May 22, 1991. Redesignated at 62 FR 10367, 10382, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 63596, 63597, Nov. 16, 1998; 76 FR 53792, Aug. 29, 2011; 76 FR 73477, Nov. 29, 2011]
§ 244.15
Travel abroad.
(a) After the grant of Temporary Protected Status, the alien must remain continuously physically present in the United States under the provisions of section 244(c)(3)(B) of the Act. The grant of Temporary Protected Status shall not constitute permission to travel abroad. Permission to travel may be granted by the director pursuant to the Service's advance parole provisions. There is no appeal from a denial of advance parole.
(b) Failure to obtain advance parole prior to the alien's departure from the United States may result in the withdrawal of Temporary Protected Status and/or the institution or recalendering of deportation or exclusion proceedings against the alien.
[56 FR 619, Jan. 7, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 23498, May 22, 1991. Redesignated at 62 FR 10367, 10382, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 63597, Nov. 16, 1998; 64 FR 4782, Feb. 1, 1999]
§ 244.16
Confidentiality.
The information contained in the application and supporting documents submitted by an alien shall not be released in any form whatsoever to a third party requester without a court order, or the written consent of the alien. For the purpose of this provision, a third party requester means any requester other than the alien, his or her authorized representative, an officer of DHS, or any federal or State law enforcement agency. Any information provided under this part may be used for purposes of enforcement of the Act or in any criminal proceeding.
[56 FR 619, Jan. 7, 1991. Redesignated at 62 FR 10367, 10382, Mar. 6, 1997; 76 FR 53792, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 244.17
Periodic registration.
(a) Aliens granted Temporary Protected Status must re-register periodically in accordance with USCIS instructions. Such registration applies to nationals of those foreign states designated for more than one year by DHS or where a designation has been extended for a year or more. Applicants for re-registration must apply during the period provided by USCIS. Re-registration applicants do not need to pay the fee that was required for initial
registration except the biometric services fee, unless that fee is waived in the applicable form instructions, and if requesting an employment authorization document, the application fee for an Application for Employment Authorization. By completing the application, applicants attest to their continuing eligibility. Such applicants do not need to submit additional supporting documents unless USCIS requests that they do so.
(b) If an alien fails to register without good cause, USCIS will withdraw Temporary Protected Status. USCIS may, for good cause, accept and approve an untimely registration request.
[76 FR 53792, Aug. 29, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 46926, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 244.18
Issuance of charging documents; detention.
(a) A charging document may be issued against an alien granted Temporary Protected Status on grounds of deportability or excludability which would have rendered the alien statutorily ineligible for such status pursuant to §§ 244.3(c) and 244.4. Aliens shall not be deported for a particular offense for which the Service has expressly granted a waiver. If the alien is deportable on a waivable ground, and no such waiver for the charged offense has been previously granted, then the alien may seek such a waiver in deportation or exclusion proceedings. The charging document shall constitute notice to the alien that his or her status in the United States is subject to withdrawal. A final order of deportation or exclusion against an alien granted Temporary Protected Status shall constitute a withdrawal of such status.
(b) The filing of the charging document by DHS with the Immigration Court renders inapplicable any other administrative, adjudication or review of eligibility for Temporary Protected Status. The alien shall have the right to a
de novo
determination of his or her eligibility for Temporary Protected Status in removal proceedings pursuant to section 240 of the Act and 8 CFR 1244.18. Review by the Board of Immigration Appeals shall be the exclusive administrative appellate review procedure. If an appeal is already pending before the Administrative Appeals Office (AAO), USCIS will notify the AAO of the filing of the charging document, in which case the pending appeal shall be dismissed and the record of proceeding returned to the jurisdiction where the charging document was filed.
(c) Upon denial of Temporary Protected Status by the Administrative Appeals Unit, the Administrative Appeals Unit shall immediately forward the record of proceeding to the director having jurisdiction over the alien's place of residence. The director shall, as soon as practicable, file a charging document with the Immigration Court if the alien is then deportable or excludable under section 241(a) or section 212(a) of the Act, respectively.
(d) An alien who is determined by USCIS deportable or inadmissible upon grounds which would have rendered the alien ineligible for such status as provided in 8 CFR 244.3(c) and 8 CFR 244.4 may be detained under the provisions of this chapter pending removal proceedings. Such alien may be removed from the United States upon entry of a final order of removal.
[56 FR 619, Jan. 7, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 23498, May 22, 1991; 60 FR 34090, June 30, 1995. Redesignated at 62 FR 10367, 10382, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 63597, Nov. 16, 1998; 64 FR 4782, Feb. 1, 1999; 76 FR 53792, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 244.19
Termination of designation.
Upon the termination of designation of a foreign state, those nationals afforded temporary Protected Status shall, upon the sixtieth (60th) day after the date notice of termination is published in the
Federal Register,
or on the last day of the most recent extension of designation by the Attorney General, automatically and without further notice or right of appeal, lose Temporary Protected Status in the United States. Such termination of a foreign state's designation is not subject to appeal.
[56 FR 619, Jan. 7, 1991. Redesignated at 62 FR 10367, 10382, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 63597, Nov. 16, 1998]
Pt. 245

# PART 245—ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS TO THAT OF PERSON ADMITTED FOR PERMANENT RESIDENCE
Sec.
245.1
Eligibility.
245.2
Application.
245.3
Adjustment of status under section 13 of the Act of September 11, 1957, as amended.
245.4
Documentary requirements.
245.5
Medical examination.
245.6
Interview.
245.7
Adjustment of status of certain Soviet and Indochinese parolees under the Foreign Operations Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 1990 (Pub. L. 101-167).
245.8
Adjustment of status as a special immigrant under section 101(a)(27)(K) of the Act.
245.9
[Reserved]
245.10
Adjustment of status upon payment of additional sum under Public Law 103-317.
245.11
Adjustment of aliens in S nonimmigrant classification.
245.12-245.14
[Reserved]
245.15
Adjustment of status of certain Haitian nationals under the Haitian Refugee Immigrant Fairness Act of 1998 (HRIFA).
245.18
Physicians with approved employment-based petitions serving in a medically underserved area or a Veterans Affairs facility.
245.20
[Reserved]
245.21
Adjustment of status of certain nationals of Vietnam, Cambodia, and Laos (section 586 of Public Law 106-429).
245.22
Evidence to demonstrate an alien's physical presence in the United States on a specific date.
245.23
Adjustment of noncitizens in T nonimmigrant classification.
245.24
Adjustment of aliens in U nonimmigrant status.
245.25
Adjustment of status of aliens with approved employment-based immigrant visa petitions; validity of petition and offer of employment.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1101, 1103, 1182, 1252, 1255; Pub. L. 105-100, section 202, 111 Stat. 2160, 2193; Pub. L. 105-277, section 902, 112 Stat. 2681; Pub. L. 110-229, tit. VII, 122 Stat. 754; 8 CFR part 2.

# Source:
30 FR 14778, Nov. 30, 1965, unless otherwise noted.
§ 245.1
Eligibility.
(a)
General.
Any alien who is physically present in the United States, except for an alien who is ineligible to apply for adjustment of status under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, may apply for adjustment of status to that of a lawful permanent resident of the United States if the applicant is eligible to receive an immigrant visa and an immigrant visa is immediately available at the time of filing of the application. A special immigrant described under section 101(a)(27)(J) of the Act shall be deemed, for the purpose of applying the adjustment to status provisions of section 245(a) of the Act, to have been paroled into the United States, regardless of the actual method of entry into the United States.
(b)
Restricted aliens.
The following categories of aliens are ineligible to apply for adjustment of status to that of a lawful permanent resident alien under section 245 of the Act, unless the alien establishes eligibility under the provisions of section 245(i) of the Act and § 245.10, is not included in the categories of aliens prohibited from applying for adjustment of status listed in § 245.1(c), is eligible to receive an immigrant visa, and has an immigrant visa immediately available at the time of filing the application for adjustment of status:
(1) Any alien who entered the United States in transit without a visa;
(2) Any alien who, on arrival in the United States, was serving in any capacity on board a vessel or aircraft or was destined to join a vessel or aircraft in the United States to serve in any capacity thereon;
(3) Any alien who was not admitted or paroled following inspection by an immigration officer;
(4) Any alien who, on or after January 1, 1977, was employed in the United States without authorization prior to filing an application for adjustment of status. This restriction shall not apply to an alien who is:
(i) An immediate relative as defined in section 201(b) of the Act;
(ii) A special immigrant as defined in section 101(a)(27)(H) or (J) of the Act;
(iii) Eligible for the benefits of Public Law 101-238 (the Immigration Nursing Relief Act of 1989) and files an application for adjustment of status on or before October 17, 1991; or
(iv) Eligible for the benefits of Public Law 101-238 (the Immigration Nursing Relief Act of 1989), and has not entered
into or continued in unauthorized employment on or after November 29, 1990.
(5) Any alien who on or after November 6, 1986 is not in lawful immigration status on the date of filing his or her application for adjustment of status, except an applicant who is an immediate relative as defined in section 201(b) or a special immigrant as defined in section 101(a)(27) (H), (I), or (J).
(6) Any alien who files an application for adjustment of status on or after November 6, 1986, who has failed (other than through no fault of his or her own or for technical reasons) to maintain continuously a lawful status since entry into the United States, except an applicant who is an immediate relative as defined in section 201(b) of the Act or a special immigrant as defined in section 101(a)(27) (H), (I), or (J) of the Act;
(7) Any alien admitted as a visitor under the visa waiver provisions of 8 CFR 212.1(e) or (q), other than an immediate relative as defined in section 201(b) of the Act;
(8) Any alien admitted as a Visa Waiver Pilot Program visitor under the provisions of section 217 of the Act and part 217 of this chapter other than an immediate relative as defined in section 201(b) of the Act;
(9) Any alien who seeks adjustment of status pursuant to an employment-based immigrant visa petition under section 203(b) of the Act and who is not maintaining a lawful nonimmigrant status at the time he or she files an application for adjustment of status; and
(10) Any alien who was ever employed in the United States without the authorization of the Service or who has otherwise at any time violated the terms of his or her admission to the United States as a nonimmigrant, except an alien who is an immediate relative as defined in section 201(b) of the Act or a special immigrant as defined in section 101(a)(27)(H), (I), (J), or (K) of the Act. For purposes of this paragraph, an alien who meets the requirements of § 274a.12(c)(9) of this chapter shall not be deemed to have engaged in unauthorized employment during the pendency of his or her adjustment application.
(c)
Ineligible aliens.
The following categories of aliens are ineligible to apply for adjustment of status to that of a lawful permanent resident alien under section 245 of the Act:
(1) Any nonpreference alien who is seeking or engaging in gainful employment in the United States who is not the beneficiary of a valid individual or blanket labor certification issued by the Secretary of Labor or who is not exempt from certification requirements under § 212.8(b) of this chapter;
(2) Except for an alien who is applying for residence under the provisions of section 133 of the Immigration Act of 1990, any alien who has or had the status of an exchange visitor under section 101(a)(15)(J) of the Act and who is subject to the foreign residence requirement of section 212(e) of the Act, unless the alien has complied with the foreign residence requirement or has been granted a waiver of that requirement, under that section. An alien who has been granted a waiver under section 212(e)(iii) of the Act based on a request by a State Department of Health (or its equivalent) under Pub. L. 103-416 shall be ineligible to apply for adjustment of status under section 245 of the Act if the terms and conditions specified in section 214(l) of the Act and § 212.7(c)(9) of this chapter have not been met;
(3) Any alien who has nonimmigrant status under paragraph (15)(A), (15)(E), or (15)(G) of section 101(a) of the Act, or has an occupational status which would, if the alien were seeking admission to the United States, entitle the alien to nonimmigrant status under those paragraphs, unless the alien first executes and submits the written waiver required by section 247(b) of the Act and part 247 of this chapter;
(4) Any alien who claims immediate relative status under section 201(b) or preference status under sections 203(a) or 203(b) of the Act, unless the applicant is the beneficiary of a valid unexpired visa petition filed in accordance with part 204 of this chapter;
(5) Any alien who is already an alien lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence on a conditional basis pursuant to section 216 or 216A of the Act, regardless of any other quota or non-quota immigrant visa classification for which the alien may otherwise be eligible;
(6) Any alien admitted to the United States as a nonimmigrant defined in section 101(a)(15)(K) of the Act, unless:
(i) In the case of a K-1 fianceé(e) under section 101(a)(15)(K)(i) of the Act or the K-2 child of a fianceé(e) under section 101(a)(15)(K)(iii) of the Act, the alien is applying for adjustment of status based upon the marriage of the K-1 fianceé(e) which was contracted within 90 days of entry with the United States citizen who filed a petition on behalf of the K-1 fianceé(e) pursuant to § 214.2(k) of this chapter;
(ii) In the case of a K-3 spouse under section 101(a)(15)(K)(ii) of the Act or the K-4 child of a spouse under section 101(a)(15)(K)(iii) of the Act, the alien is applying for adjustment of status based upon the marriage of the K-3 spouse to the United States citizen who filed a petition on behalf of the K-3 spouse pursuant to § 214.2(k) of this chapter;
(7) A nonimmigrant classified pursuant to section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act, unless the nonimmigrant is applying for adjustment of status pursuant to the request of a law enforcement authority, the provisions of section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act, and 8 CFR 245.11;
(8) Any alien who seeks to adjust status based upon a marriage which occurred on or after November 10, 1986, and while the alien was in exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings, or judicial proceedings relating thereto.
(i)
Commencement of proceedings.
The period during which the alien is in deportation, exclusion, or removal proceedings or judicial proceedings relating thereto, commences:
(A) With the issuance of the Form I-221, Order to Show Cause and Notice of Hearing prior to June 20, 1991;
(B) With the filing of a Form I-221, Order to Show Cause and Notice of Hearing, issued on or after June 20, 1991, with the Immigration Court;
(C) With the issuance of Form I-122, Notice to Applicant for Admission Detained for Hearing Before Immigration Judge, prior to April 1, 1997,
(D) With the filing of a Form I-862, Notice to Appear, with the Immigration Court, or
(E) With the issuance and service of Form I-860, Notice and Order of Expedited Removal.
(ii)
Termination of proceedings.
The period during which the alien is in exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings, or judicial proceedings relating thereto, terminates:
(A) When the alien departs from the United States while an order of exclusion, deportation, or removal is outstanding or before the expiration of the voluntary departure time granted in connection with an alternate order of deportation or removal;
(B) When the alien is found not to be inadmissible or deportable from the United States;
(C) When the Form I-122, I-221, I-860, or I-862 is canceled;
(D) When proceedings are terminated by the immigration judge or the Board of Immigration Appeals; or
(E) When a petition for review or an action for habeas corpus is granted by a Federal court on judicial review.
(iii)
Exemptions.
This prohibition shall no longer apply if:
(A) The alien is found not to be inadmissible or deportable from the United States;
(B) Form I-122, I-221, I-860, or I-862, is canceled;
(C) Proceedings are terminated by the immigration judge or the Board of Immigration Appeals;
(D) A petition for review or an action for habeas corpus is granted by a Federal court on judicial review;
(E) The alien has resided outside the United States for 2 or more years following the marriage; or
(F) The alien establishes the marriage is bona fide by providing clear and convincing evidence that the marriage was entered into in good faith and in accordance with the laws of the place where the marriage took place, was not entered into for the purpose of procuring the alien's entry as an immigrant, and no fee or other consideration was given (other than to an attorney for assistance in preparation of a lawful petition) for the filing of a petition.
(iv)
Request for exemption.
No application or fee is required to request the exemption under section 245(e) of the Act. The request must be made in writing and submitted with the Form I-485. Application for Permanent Residence.
The request must state the basis for requesting consideration for the exemption and must be supported by documentary evidence establishing eligibility for the exemption.
(v)
Evidence to establish eligibility for the bona fide marriage exemption.
Section 204(g) of the Act provides that certain visa petitions based upon marriages entered into during deportation, exclusion or related judicial proceedings may be approved only if the petitioner provides clear and convincing evidence that the marriage is bona fide. Evidence that a visa petition based upon the same marriage was approved under the bona fide marriage exemption to section 204(g) of the Act will be considered primary evidence of eligibility for the bona fide marriage exemption provided in this part. The applicant will not be required to submit additional evidence to qualify for the bona fide marriage exemption provided in this part, unless the district director determines that such additional evidence is needed. In cases where the district director notifies the applicant that additional evidence is required, the applicant must submit documentary evidence which clearly and convincingly establishes that the marriage was entered into in good faith and not entered into for the purpose of procuring the alien's entry as an immigrant. Such evidence may include:
(A) Documentation showing joint ownership of property;
(B) Lease showing joint tenancy of a common residence;
(C) Documentation showing commingling of financial resources;
(D) Birth certificates of children born to the applicant and his or her spouse;
(E) Affidavits of third parties having knowledge of the bona fides of the marital relationship, or
(F) Other documentation establishing that the marriage was not entered into in order to evade the immigration laws of the United States.
(vi)
Decision.
An application for adjustment of status filed during the prohibited period shall be denied, unless the applicant establishes eligibility for an exemption from the general prohibition.
(vii)
Denials.
The denial of an application for adjustment of status because the marriage took place during the prohibited period shall be without prejudice to the consideration of a new application or a motion to reopen a previously denied application, if deportation or exclusion proceedings are terminated while the alien is in the United States. The denial shall also be without prejudice to the consideration of a new application or motion to reopen the adjustment of status application, if the applicant presents clear and convincing evidence establishing eligibility for the bona fide marriage exemption contained in this part.
(viii)
Appeals.
An application for adjustment of status to lawful permanent resident which is denied by the district director solely because the applicant failed to establish eligibility for the bona fide marriage exemption contained in this part may be appealed to the Associate Commissioner, Examinations, in accordance with 8 CFR part 103. The appeal to the Associate Commissioner, Examinations, shall be the single level of appellate review established by statute.
(d)
Definitions
—(1)
Lawful immigration status.
For purposes of section 245(c)(2) of the Act, the term “lawful immigration status” will only describe the immigration status of an individual who is:
(i) In lawful permanent resident status;
(ii) An alien admitted to the United States in nonimmigrant status as defined in section 101(a)(15) of the Act, whose initial period of admission has not expired or whose nonimmigrant status has been extended in accordance with part 214 of this chapter;
(iii) In refugee status under section 207 of the Act, such status not having been revoked;
(iv) In asylee status under section 208 of the Act, such status not having been revoked;
(v) In parole status which has not expired, been revoked or terminated; or
(vi) Eligible for the benefits of Public Law 101-238 (the Immigration Nursing Relief Act of 1989) and files an application for adjustment of status on or before October 17, 1991.
(2)
No fault of the applicant or for technical reasons.
The parenthetical phrase
other than through no fault of his or her
own or for technical reasons
shall be limited to:
(i) Inaction of another individual or organization designated by regulation to act on behalf of an individual and over whose actions the individual has no control, if the inaction is acknowledged by that individual or organization (as, for example, where a designated school official certified under § 214.2(f) of this chapter or an exchange program sponsor under § 214.2(j) of this chapter did not provide required notification to the Service of continuation of status, or did not forward a request for continuation of status to the Service); or
(ii) A technical violation resulting from inaction of the Service (as for example, where an applicant establishes that he or she properly filed a timely request to maintain status and the Service has not yet acted on that request). An individual whose refugee or asylum status has expired through passage of time, but whose status has not been revoked, will be considered to have gone out of status for a technical reason.
(iii) A technical violation caused by the physical inability of the applicant to request an extension of nonimmigrant stay from the Service either in person or by mail (as, for example, an individual who is hospitalized with an illness at the time nonimmigrant stay expires). The explanation of such a technical violation shall be accompanied by a letter explaining the circumstances from the hospital or attending physician.
(iv) A technical violation resulting from the Service's application of the maximum five/six year period of stay for certain H-1 nurses only if the applicant was subsequently reinstated to H-1 status in accordance with the terms of Public Law 101-656 (Immigration Amendments of 1988).
(3)
Effect of departure.
The departure and subsequent reentry of an individual who was employed without authorization in the United States after January 1, 1977 does not erase the bar to adjustment of status in section 245(c)(2) of the Act. Similarly, the departure and subsequent reentry of an individual who has not maintained a lawful immigration status on any previous entry into the United States does not erase the bar to adjustment of status in section 245(c)(2) of the Act for any application filed on or after November 6, 1986.
(e)
Special categories
—(1)
Alien medical graduates.
Any alien who is a medical graduate qualified for special immigrant classification under section 101(a)(27)(H) of the Act and is the beneficiary of an approved petition as required under section 204(a)(1)(E)(i) of the Act is eligible for adjustment of status. An accompanying spouse and children also may apply for adjustment of status under this section. Temporary absences from the United States for 30 days or less, during which the applicant was practicing or studying medicine, do not interrupt the continuous presence requirement. Temporary absences authorized under the Service's advance parole procedures will not be considered interruptive of continuous presence when the alien applies for adjustment of status.
(2) [Reserved]
(3)
Special immigrant juveniles
—(i)
Eligibility for adjustment of status.
For the limited purpose of meeting one of the eligibility requirements for adjustment of status under section 245(a) of the Act, which requires that an individual be inspected and admitted or paroled, an applicant classified as a special immigrant juvenile under section 101(a)(27)(J) of the Act will be deemed to have been paroled into the United States as provided in § 245.1(a) and section 245(h) of the Act.
(ii)
Bars to adjustment.
An applicant classified as a special immigrant juvenile is subject only to the adjustment bar described in section 245(c)(6) of the Act. Therefore, an applicant classified as a special immigrant juvenile is barred from adjustment if deportable due to engagement in terrorist activity or association with terrorist organizations (section 237(a)(4)(B) of the Act). There is no waiver of or exemption to this adjustment bar if it applies.
(iii)
Inadmissibility provisions that do not apply.
The following inadmissibility provisions of section 212(a) of the Act do not apply to an applicant classified as a special immigrant juvenile and do not render the applicant ineligible for the benefit:
(A) Public charge (section 212(a)(4) of the Act);
(B) Labor certification (section 212(a)(5)(A) of the Act);
(C) Aliens present without admission or parole (section 212(a)(6)(A) of the Act);
(D) Misrepresentation (section 212(a)(6)(C) of the Act);
(E) Stowaways (section 212(a)(6)(D) of the Act);
(F) Documentation requirements for immigrants (section 212(a)(7)(A) of the Act);
(G) Aliens unlawfully present (section 212(a)(9)(B) of the Act);
(iv)
Inadmissibility provisions that do apply.
Except as provided for in paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section, all inadmissibility provisions in section 212(a) of the Act apply to an applicant classified as a special immigrant juvenile.
(v)
Waivers.
(A) Pursuant to section 245(h)(2)(B) of the Act, USCIS may grant a waiver for humanitarian purposes, to assure family unity, or in the public interest for any applicable provision of section 212(a) of the Act to an applicant seeking to adjust status based upon their classification as a special immigrant juvenile, except for the following provisions:
(1)
Conviction of certain crimes (section 212(a)(2)(A) of the Act) (except for a single offense of simple possession of 30 grams or less of marijuana);
(2)
Multiple criminal convictions (section 212(a)(2)(B) of the Act) (except for a single offense of simple possession of 30 grams or less of marijuana);
(3)
Controlled substance traffickers (section 212(a)(2)(C) of the Act) (except for a single offense of simple possession of 30 grams or less of marijuana);
(4)
Security and related grounds (section 212(a)(3)(A) of the Act);
(5)
Terrorist activities (section 212(a)(3)(B) of the Act);
(6)
Foreign policy (section 212(a)(3)(C) of the Act); or
(7)
Participants in Nazi persecution, genocide, or the commission of any act of torture or extrajudicial killing (section 212(a)(3)(E) of the Act).
(B) The relationship between an applicant classified as a special immigrant juvenile and the applicant's natural or prior adoptive parents cannot be considered a factor in issuing a waiver based on family unity under paragraph (v) of this section.
(vi)
No parental immigration rights based on special immigrant juvenile classification.
The natural or prior adoptive parent(s) of an applicant classified as a special immigrant juvenile will not be accorded any right, privilege, or status under the Act by virtue of their parentage. This prohibition applies to all of the applicant's natural and prior adoptive parent(s) and remains in effect even after the special immigrant juvenile becomes a lawful permanent resident or a United States citizen.
(vii)
No contact.
During the application or interview process, USCIS will take no action that requires an applicant classified as a special immigrant juvenile to contact the person who allegedly battered, abused, neglected, or abandoned the applicant (or the family member of such person(s)).
(f)
Concurrent applications to overcome grounds of inadmissibility.
Except as provided in 8 CFR parts 235 and 249, an application under this part shall be the sole method of requesting the exercise of discretion under sections 212(g), (h), (i), and (k) of the Act, as they relate to the inadmissibility of an alien in the United States.
(g)
Availability of immigrant visas under section 245 and priority dates
—(1)
Availability of immigrant visas under section 245.
An alien is ineligible for the benefits of section 245 of the Act unless an immigrant visa is immediately available to him or her at the time the application is filed. If the applicant is a preference alien, the current Department of State Bureau of Consular Affairs Visa Bulletin will be consulted to determine whether an immigrant visa is immediately available. A preference immigrant visa is considered available for accepting and processing if the applicant has a priority date on the waiting list which is earlier than the date shown in the Bulletin (or the Bulletin shows that numbers for visa applicants in his or her category are current). Information concerning the immediate availability of an immigrant visa may be obtained at any Service office.
(2)
Priority dates.
The priority date of an applicant who is seeking the allotment of an immigrant visa number under one of the preference classes
specified in section 203(a) or 203(b) of the Act by virtue of a valid visa petition approved in his or her behalf shall be fixed by the date on which such approved petition was filed.
(h)
Conditional basis of status.
Whenever an alien spouse (as defined in section 216(g)(1) of the Act), an alien son or daughter (as defined in section 216(g)(2) of the Act), an alien entrepreneur (as defined in section 216A(f)(1) of the Act), or an alien spouse or child (as defined in section 216A(f)(2) of the Act) is granted adjustment of status to that of lawful permanent residence, the alien shall be considered to have obtained such status on a conditional basis subject to the provisions of section 216 or 216A of the Act, as appropriate.
(i)
Adjustment of status from K-3/K-4 status.
An alien admitted to the United States as a K-3 under section 101(a)(15)(K)(ii) of the Act may apply for adjustment of status to that of a permanent resident pursuant to section 245 of the Act at any time following the approval of the Form I-130 petition filed on the alien's behalf, by the same citizen who petitioned for the alien's K-3 status. An alien admitted to the United States as a K-4 under section 101(a)(15)(K)(iii) of the Act may apply for adjustment of status to that of permanent residence pursuant to section 245 of the Act at any time following the approval of the Form I-130 petition filed on the alien's behalf, by the same citizen who petitioned for the alien's parent's K-3 status. Upon approval of the application, the director shall record his or her lawful admission for permanent residence in accordance with that section and subject to the conditions prescribed in section 216 of the Act. An alien admitted to the U.S. as a K-3/K-4 alien may not adjust to that of permanent resident status in any way other than as a spouse or child of the U.S. citizen who originally filed the petition for that alien's K-3/K-4 status.
[30 FR 14778, Nov. 30, 1965]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 245.1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 245.2
Application.
(a)
General
—(1)
Jurisdiction.
USCIS has jurisdiction to adjudicate an application for adjustment of status filed by any alien, unless the immigration judge has jurisdiction to adjudicate the application under 8 CFR 1245.2(a)(1).
(2)
Proper filing of application
—(i)
Under section 245.
(A) An immigrant visa must be immediately available in order for an alien to properly file an adjustment application under section 245 of the Act See § 245.1(g)(1) to determine whether an immigrant visa is immediately available.
(B) If, at the time of filing, approval of a visa petition filed for classification under section 201(b)(2)(A)(i), section 203(a) or section 203(b)(1), (2) or (3) of the Act would make a visa immediately available to the alien beneficiary, the alien beneficiary's adjustment application will be considered properly filed whether submitted concurrently with or subsequent to the visa petition, provided that it meets the filing requirements contained in parts 103 and 245. For any other classification, the alien beneficiary may file the adjustment application only after the Service has approved the visa petition.
(C) A visa petition and an adjustment application are concurrently filed only if:
(
1
) The visa petitioner and adjustment applicant each file their respective form at the same time, bundled together within a single mailer or delivery packet, with the proper filing fees on the same day and at the same Service office, or;
(
2
) the visa petitioner filed the visa petition, for which a visa number has become immediately available, on, before or after July 31, 2002, and the adjustment applicant files the adjustment application, together with the proper filing fee and a copy of the Form I-797, Notice of Action, establishing the receipt and acceptance by the Service of the underlying Form I-140 visa petition, at the same Service office at which the visa petitioner filed the visa petition, or;
(
3
) The visa petitioner filed the visa petition, for which a visa number has
become immediately available, on, before, or after July 31, 2002, and the adjustment applicant files the adjustment application, together with proof of payment of the filing fee with the Service and a copy of the Form I-797 Notice of Action establishing the receipt and acceptance by the Service of the underlying Form I-140 visa petition, with the Immigration Court or the Board of Immigration Appeals when jurisdiction lies under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(ii)
Under the Act of November 2, 1966.
An application for the benefits of section 1 of the Act of November 2, 1966 is not properly filed unless the applicant was inspected and admitted or paroled into the United States subsequent to January 1, 1959. An applicant is ineligible for the benefits of the Act of November 2, 1966 unless he or she has been physically present in the United States for one year (amended from two years by the Refugee Act of 1980).
(3)
Submission of documents
—(i)
General.
A separate application shall be filed by each applicant for benefits under section 245, or the Act of November 2, 1966. Each application shall be accompanied by an executed Form G-325A, if the applicant has reached his or her 14th birthday. Form G-325A shall be considered part of the application. An application under this part shall be accompanied by the document specified in the instructions which are attached to the application.
(ii)
Under section 245.
An application for adjustment of status is submitted on Form I-485, Application for Permanent Residence. The application must be accompanied by the appropriate fee as explained in the instructions to the application.
(iii)
Under section 245(i).
An alien who seeks adjustment of status under the provisions of section 245(i) of the Act must file Form I-485, with the required fee. The alien must also file Supplement A to Form I-485, with any required additional sum.
(iv)
Under the Act of November 2, 1966.
An application for adjustment of status is made on Form I-485A. The application must be accompanied by Form I-643, Health and Human Services Statistical Data Sheet. The application must include a clearance from the local police jurisdiction for any area in the United States when the applicant has lived for six months or more since his or her 14th birthday.
(4)
Effect of departure
—(i)
General.
The effect of a departure from the United States is dependent upon the law under which the applicant is applying for adjustment.
(ii)
Under section 245 of the Act.
(A) The departure from the United States of an applicant who is under exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings shall be deemed an abandonment of the application constituting grounds for termination of the proceeding by reason of the departure. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section, the departure of an applicant who is not under exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings shall be deemed an abandonment of the application constituting grounds for termination of any pending application for adjustment of status, unless the applicant was previously granted advance parole by the Service for such absences, and was inspected upon returning to the United States. If the adjustment application of an individual granted advance parole is subsequently denied the individual will be treated as an applicant for admission, and subject to the provisions of section 212 and 235 of the Act.
(B) The travel outside of the United States by an applicant for adjustment who is not under exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings shall not be deemed an abandonment of the application if he or she was previously granted advance parole by the Service for such absences, and was inspected and paroled upon returning to the United States. If the adjustment of status application of such individual is subsequently denied, he or she will be treated as an applicant for admission, and subject to the provisions of section 212 and 235 of the Act.
(C) The travel outside of the United States by an applicant for adjustment of status who is not under exclusion, deportation, or removal proceeding and who is in lawful H-1 or L-1 status shall not be deemed an abandonment of the application if, upon returning to this country, the alien remains eligible for
H or L status, is coming to resume employment with the same employer for whom he or she had previously been authorized to work as an H-1 or L-1 nonimmigrant, and, is in possession of a valid H or L visa (if required). The travel outside of the United States by an applicant for adjustment of status who is not under exclusion, deportation, or removal proceeding and who is in lawful H-4 or L-2 status shall not be deemed an abandonment of the application if the spouse or parent of such alien through whom the H-4 or L-2 status was obtained is maintaining H-1 or L-1 status and the alien remains otherwise eligible for H-4 or L-2 status, and, the alien is in possession of a valid H-4 or L-2 visa (if required). The travel outside of the United States by an applicant for adjustment of status, who is not under exclusion, deportation, or removal proceeding and who is in lawful K-3 or K-4 status shall not be deemed an abandonment of the application if, upon returning to this country, the alien is in possession of a valid K-3 or K-4 visa and remains eligible for K-3 or K-4 status.
(D) The travel outside of the United States by an applicant for adjustment of status who is not under exclusion, deportation, or removal proceeding and who is in lawful V status shall not be deemed an abandonment of the application if, upon returning to this country, the alien is admissible as a V nonimmigrant.
(iii)
Under the Act of November 2, 1966.
If an applicant who was admitted or paroled subsequent to January 1, 1959, later departs from the United States temporarily with no intention of abandoning his or her residence, and is readmitted or paroled upon return, the temporary absence shall be disregarded for purposes of the applicant's “last arrival” into the United States in regard to cases filed under section 1 of the Act of November 2, 1966.
(5)
Decision
—(i)
General.
The applicant shall be notified of the decision of the director and, if the application is denied, the reasons for the denial.
(ii)
Under section 245 of the Act.
If the application is approved, the applicant's permanent residence shall be recorded as of the date of the order approving the adjustment of status. An application for adjustment of status, as a preference alien, shall not be approved until an immigrant visa number has been allocated by the Department of State. No appeal lies from the denial of an application by the director, but the applicant, if not an arriving alien, retains the right to renew his or her application in proceedings under 8 CFR part 240. Also, an applicant who is a parolee and meets the two conditions described in § 245.2(a)(1) may renew a denied application in proceedings under 8 CFR part 240 to determine admissibility. At the time of renewal of the application, an applicant does not need to meet the statutory requirement of section 245(c) of the Act, or § 245.1(g), if, in fact, those requirements were met at the time the renewed application was initially filed with the director. Nothing in this section shall entitle an alien to proceedings under section 240 of the Act who is not otherwise so entitled.
(iii)
Under the Act of November 2, 1966.
If the application is approved, the applicant's permanent residence shall be recorded in accordance with the provisions of section 1. No appeal lies from the denial of an application by the director, but the applicant, if not an arriving alien, retains the right to renew his or her application in proceedings under 8 CFR part 240. Also, an applicant who is a parolee and meets the two conditions described in § 245.2(a)(1) may renew a denied application in proceedings under 8 CFR part 240 to determine admissibility.
(b)
Application under section 2 of the Act of November 2, 1966.
An application by a native or citizen of Cuba or by his spouse or child residing in the United States with him, who was lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence prior to November 2, 1966, and who desires such admission to be recorded as of an earlier date pursuant to section 2 of the Act of November 2, 1966, shall be made on Form I-485A. The application shall be accompanied by the Permanent Resident Card, Form I-151 or I-551, issued to the applicant in connection with his lawful admission for permanent residence. No appeal shall lie from the decision. If the application is approved, the applicant will be furnished with a replacement of his Form I-151 or I-551 bearing the new
date as of which the lawful admission for permanent residence has been recorded.
(c)
Application under section 214(d) of the Act.
An application for permanent resident status pursuant to section 214(d) of the Act shall be filed on Form I-485. A separate application shall be filed by each applicant. If the application is approved, USCIS shall record the lawful admission of the applicant as of the date of approval. The applicant shall be notified of the decision and, if the application is denied, of the reasons therefor. No appeal shall lie from the denial of an application but such denial shall be without prejudice to the alien's right to renew his or her application in proceedings under 8 CFR part 240.
[30 FR 14778, Nov. 30, 1965]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 245.2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 245.3
Adjustment of status under section 13 of the Act of September 11, 1957, as amended.
Any application for benefits under section 13 of the Act of September 11, 1957, as amended, must be filed on Form I-485 with the director having jurisdiction over the applicant's place of residence. The benefits under section 13 are limited to aliens who were admitted into the United States under section 101, paragraphs (a)(15)(A)(i), (a)(15)(A)(ii), (a)(15)(G)(i), or (a)(15)(G)(ii) of the Immigration and Nationality Act who performed diplomatic or semi-diplomatic duties and to their immediate families, and who establish that there are compelling reasons why the applicant or the member of the applicant's immediate family is unable to return to the country represented by the government which accredited the applicant and that adjustment of the applicant's status to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence would be in the national interest. Aliens whose duties were of a custodial, clerical, or menial nature, and members of their immediate families, are not eligible for benefits under section 13. In view of the annual limitation of 50 on the number of aliens whose status may be adjusted under section 13, any alien who is prima facie eligible for adjustment of status to that of a lawful permanent resident under another provision of law shall be advised to apply for adjustment pursuant to such other provision of law. An applicant for the benefits of section 13 shall not be subject to the labor certification requirement of section 212(a)(14) of the Immigration and Nationality Act. The applicant shall be notified of the decision and, if the application is denied, of the reasons for the denial and of the right to appeal under the provisions of part 103 of this chapter. Any applications pending with the Service before December 29, 1981 must be resubmitted to comply with the requirements of this section.
(Secs. 103, 245, of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended; 71 Stat. 642, as amended, sec. 17, Pub. L. 97-116, 95 Stat. 1619 (8 U.S.C. 1103, 1255, 1255b))
[47 FR 44238, Oct. 7, 1982, as amended at 59 FR 33905, July 1, 1994]
§ 245.4
Documentary requirements.
The provisions of part 211 of this chapter relating to the documentary requirements for immigrants shall not apply to an applicant under this part.
(Secs. 103, 214, 245 Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended; (8 U.S.C. 1103, 1184, 8 U.S.C. 1255, Sec. 2, 96 Stat. 1157, 8 U.S.C. 1255 note))
[30 FR 14779, Nov. 30, 1965. Redesignated at 48 FR 4770, Feb. 3, 1983, further redesignated at 52 FR 6322, Mar. 3, 1982, and further redesignated at 56 FR 49481, Oct. 2, 1991, as amended at 84 FR 41507, Aug. 14, 2019; 86 FR 14228, Mar. 15, 2021]
§ 245.5
Medical examination.
Pursuant to section 232(b) of the Act, an applicant for adjustment of status shall be required to have a medical examination by a designated civil surgeon, whose report setting forth the findings of the mental and physical condition of the applicant, including compliance with section 212(a)(1)(A)(ii) of the Act, shall be incorporated into the record. A medical examination shall not be required of an applicant for adjustment of status who entered the United States as a nonimmigrant spouse, fianceé, or fianceeé of a United States citizen or the child of such an
alien as defined in section 101(a)(15)(K) of the Act and § 214.2(k) of this chapter if the applicant was medically examined prior to, and as a condition of, the issuance of the nonimmigrant visa; provided that the medical examination must have occurred not more than 1 year prior the date of application for adjustment of status. Any applicant certified under paragraphs (1)(A)(ii) or (1)(A)(iii) of section 212(a) of the Act may appeal to a Board of Medical Officers of the U.S. Public Health Service as provided in section 234 of the Act and part 235 of this chapter.
[56 FR 49841, Oct. 2, 1991, as amended at 62 FR 10384, Mar. 6, 1997; 66 FR 42595, Aug. 14, 2001]
§ 245.6
Interview.
Each applicant for adjustment of status under this part shall be interviewed by an immigration officer. This interview may be waived in the case of a child under the age of 14; when the applicant is clearly ineligible under section 245(c) of the Act or § 245.1 of this chapter; or when it is determined by the Service that an interview is unnecessary.
[57 FR 49375, Nov. 2, 1992]
§ 245.7
Adjustment of status of certain Soviet and Indochinese parolees under the Foreign Operations Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 1990 (Pub. L. 101-167).
(a)
Application.
Each person applying for benefits under section 599E of Public Law 101-167, 103 Stat. 1195, 1263, must file an application on the form prescribed by USCIS with the fee prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2 and in accordance with the form instructions.
(b)
Aliens eligible to apply for adjustment.
The benefits of this section shall only apply to an alien who:
(1) Was a national of the Soviet Union, Vietnam, Laos, or Cambodia, and
(2) Was inspected and granted parole into the United States during the period beginning on August 15, 1988, and ending on September 30, 1990, after being denied refugee status.
(c)
Eligibility.
Benefits under Section 599E of Public Law 101-167 are limited to any alien described in paragraph (b) of this section who:
(1) Applies for such adjustment,
(2) Has been physically present in the United States for at least one year and is physically present in the United States on the date the application for such adjustment is filed,
(3) Is admissible to the United States as an immigrant, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, and
(4) Pays a fee for the processing of such application.
(d)
Waiver of certain grounds for inadmissibility.
The provisions of paragraphs (14), (15), (20), (21), (25), (28) (other than subparagraph (F), and (32) of section 212(a) of the Act shall not apply to adjustment under this section. The Attorney General may waive any other provision of section 212(a) (other than paragraph (23)(B), (27), (29), or (33)) with respect to such an adjustment for humanitarian purposes, to assure family unity, or when it is otherwise in the public interest.
(e)
Date of approval.
Upon approval of such an application for adjustment of status, the Attorney General shall create a record of the alien's admission as a lawful permanent resident as of the date of the alien's inspection and parole described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(f)
No offset in number of visas available.
When an alien is granted the status of having been lawfully admitted for permanent residence under this section, the Secretary of State shall not be required to reduce the number of immigrant visas authorized to be issued under the Immigration and Nationality Act.
[55 FR 24860, July 19, 1990. Redesignated at 56 FR 49841, Oct. 2, 1991, as amended at 59 FR 33905, July 1, 1994; 63 FR 12987, Mar. 17, 1998; 74 FR 26940, June 5, 2009; 76 FR 53792, Aug. 29, 2011; 85 FR 46926, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 245.8
Adjustment of status as a special immigrant under section 101(a)(27)(K) of the Act.
(a)
Application.
Each person applying for adjustment of status as a special immigrant under section 101(a)(27)(K) of the Act must file a Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status. Benefits under this section are limited to aliens who have served honorably (or are enlisted to serve) in the Armed Forces of the United States for at least 12 years, and
their spouses and children. For purposes of this section, special immigrants described in section 101(a)(27)(K) of the Act and his or her spouse and children shall be deemed to have been paroled into the United States pursuant to section 245(g) of the Act. Each applicant must file a separate application with the appropriate fee.
(b)
Eligibility.
The benefits of this section shall apply only to an alien described in section 101(a)(27)(K) of the Act who applies for such adjustment. The accompanying spouse or child of an applicant for adjustment of status who benefits from Public Law 102-110 may also apply for adjustment of status. The provisions of section 245(c) of the Act do not apply to the principal Armed Forces special immigrant or to his or her spouse or child.
(c)
Interview of the applicant.
Upon completion of the adjustment of status interview for a special immigrant under section 101(a)(27)(K) of the Act, the director shall make a
prima facie
determination regarding eligibility for naturalization benefits if the applicant is to be granted status as an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence. If the director determines that the applicant is immediately eligible for naturalization under section 328 or 329 of the Act, the director shall advise the applicant that he or she is eligible to apply for naturalization on Form N-400, Application to File Petition for Naturalization. If the applicant wishes to apply for naturalization, the director shall instruct the applicant concerning the requirements for naturalization and provide him or her with the necessary forms.
(d)
Spouse or child outside the United States.
When a spouse or child of an alien granted special immigrant status under section 101(a)(27)(K) of the Act is outside the United States, the principal alien may file Form I-824, Application for Action on an Approved Application or Petition, with the office which approved the original application.
(e)
Removal provisions of section 237 of the Act.
If the Service is made aware by notification from the appropriate executive department or by any other means that a section 101(a)(27)(K) special immigrant who has already been granted permanent residence fails to complete his or her total active duty service obligation for reasons other than an honorable discharge, the alien may become subject to the removal provisions of section 237 of the Act, provided the alien is in one or more of the classes of deportable aliens specified in section 237 of the Act. The Service shall obtain a current Form DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, from the appropriate executive department for verification of the alien's failure to maintain eligibility.
(f)
Rescission proceedings under section 246 of the Act.
If the Service determines that a military special immigrant under section 101(a)(27)(K) of the Act was not in fact eligible for adjustment of status, the Service may pursue rescission proceedings under section 246 of the Act.
[57 FR 33862, July 31, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 50836, Sept. 29, 1993; 62 FR 10384, Mar. 6, 1997; 74 FR 26940, June 5, 2009]
§ 245.9
[Reserved]
§ 245.10
Adjustment of status upon payment of additional sum under section 245(i).
(a)
Definitions.
As used in this section the term:
(1)(i)
Grandfathered alien
means an alien who is the beneficiary (including a spouse or child of the alien beneficiary if eligible to receive a visa under section 203(d) of the Act) of:
(A) A petition for classification under section 204 of the Act which was properly filed with the Attorney General on or before April 30, 2001, and which was approvable when filed; or
(B) An application for labor certification under section 212(a)(5)(A) of the Act that was properly filed pursuant to the regulations of the Secretary of Labor on or before April 30, 2001, and which was approvable when filed.
(ii) If the qualifying visa petition or application for labor certification was filed after January 14, 1998, the alien must have been physically present in the United States on December 21, 2000. This requirement does not apply with respect to a spouse or child accompanying or following to join a principal
alien who is a grandfathered alien as described in this section.
(2)
Properly filed
means:
(i) With respect to a qualifying immigrant visa petition, that the application was physically received by the Service on or before April 30, 2001, or if mailed, was postmarked on or before April 30, 2001, and accepted for filing as provided in § 103.2(a)(1) and (a)(2) of this chapter; and
(ii) With respect to a qualifying application for labor certification, that the application was properly filed and accepted pursuant to the regulations of the Secretary of Labor, 20 CFR 656.21.
(3)
Approvable when filed
means that, as of the date of the filing of the qualifying immigrant visa petition under section 204 of the Act or qualifying application for labor certification, the qualifying petition or application was properly filed, meritorious in fact, and non-frivolous (“frivolous” being defined herein as patently without substance). This determination will be made based on the circumstances that existed at the time the qualifying petition or application was filed. A visa petition that was properly filed on or before April 30, 2001, and was approvable when filed, but was later withdrawn, denied, or revoked due to circumstances that have arisen after the time of filing, will preserve the alien beneficiary's grandfathered status if the alien is otherwise eligible to file an application for adjustment of status under section 245(i) of the Act.
(4)
Circumstances that have arisen after the time of filing
means circumstances similar to those outlined in § 205.1(a)(3)(i) or (a)(3)(ii) of this chapter.
(b)
Eligibility.
An alien who is included in the categories of restricted aliens under § 245.1(b) and meets the definition of a “grandfathered alien” may apply for adjustment of status under section 245 of the Act if the alien meets the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(7) of this section:
(1) Is physically present in the United States;
(2) Is eligible for immigrant classification and has an immigrant visa number immediately available at the time of filing for adjustment of status;
(3) Is not inadmissible from the United States under any provision of section 212 of the Act, or all grounds for inadmissibility have been waived;
(4) Properly files Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status on or after October 1, 1994, with the required fee for that application;
(5) Properly files Supplement A to Form I-485 on or after October 1, 1994;
(6) Pays an additional sum of $1,000, unless payment of the additional sum is not required under section 245(i) of the Act; and
(7) Will adjust status under section 245 of the Act to that of lawful permanent resident of the United States on or after October 1, 1994.
(c)
Payment of additional sum.
An adjustment applicant filing under the provisions of section 245(i) of the Act must pay the standard adjustment application filing fee as specified in 8 CFR 106.2. Each application submitted under the provisions of section 245(i) of the Act must be submitted with an additional sum of $1,000. An applicant must submit the additional sum of $1,000 only once per application for adjustment of status submitted under the provisions of section 245(i) of the Act. However, an applicant filing under the provisions of section 245(i) of the Act is not required to pay the additional sum if, at the time the application for adjustment of status is filed, the alien is:
(1) Unmarried and less than 17 years of age;
(2) The spouse of a legalized alien, qualifies for and has properly filed Form I-817, Application for Voluntary Departure under the Family Unity Program, and submits a copy of his or her receipt or approval notice for filing Form I-817; or
(3) The child of a legalized alien, is unmarried and less than 21 years of age, qualifies for and has filed Form I-817, and submits a copy of his or her receipt or approval notice for filing Form I-817. Such an alien must pay the additional sum if he or she has reached the age of 21 years at the time of filing for adjustment of status. Such an alien must meet all other conditions for adjustment of status contained in the Act and in this chapter.
(d)
Pending adjustment application with the Service or Executive Office for Immigration Review filed without Supplement A to Form I-485 and additional sum.
An alien who filed an adjustment of status application with the Service in accordance with § 103.2 of this chapter will be allowed the opportunity to amend such an application to request consideration under the provisions of section 245(i) of the Act, if it appears that the alien is not otherwise ineligible for adjustment of status. The Service shall notify the applicant in writing of the Service's intent to deny the adjustment of status application, and any other requests for benefits that derive from the adjustment application, unless Supplement A to Form I-485 and any required additional sum is filed within 30 days of the date of the notice. If the application for adjustment of status is pending before the Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR), EOIR will allow the respondent an opportunity to amend an adjustment of status application filed in accordance with § 103.2 of this chapter (to include Supplement A to Form I-485 and proof of remittance to the INS of the required additional sum) in order to request consideration under the provisions of section 245(i) of the Act.
(e)
Applications for Adjustment of Status filed before October 1, 1994.
The provisions of section 245(i) of the Act shall not apply to an application for adjustment of status that was filed before October 1, 1994. The provisions of section 245(i) of the Act also shall not apply to a motion to reopen or reconsider an application for adjustment of status if the application for adjustment of status was filed before October 1, 1994. An applicant whose pre-October 1, 1994, application for adjustment of status has been denied may file a new application for adjustment of status pursuant to section 245(i) of the Act on or after October 1, 1994, provided that such new application is accompanied by: the required fee; Supplement A to Form I-485; the additional sum required by section 245(i) of the Act; and all other required initial and additional evidence.
(f)
Effect of section 245(i) on completed adjustment applications before the Service.
(1) Any motion to reopen or reconsider before the Service alleging availability of section 245(i) of the Act must be filed in accordance with § 103.5 of this chapter. If said motion to reopen with the Service is granted, the alien must remit to the Service Supplement A to Form I-485 and the additional sum required by section 245(i) of the Act. If the alien had previously remitted Supplement A to Form I-485 and the additional sum with the application which is the subject of the motion to reopen, then no additional sum need be remitted upon such reopening.
(2) An alien whose adjustment application was adjudicated and denied by the Service because of ineligibility under section 245(a) or (c) of the Act and now alleges eligibility due to the availability of section 245(i) of the Act may file a new application for adjustment of status pursuant to section 245(i) of the Act, provided that such new application is accompanied by the required fee for the application, Supplement A to Form I-485, additional sum required by section 245(i) of the Act and all other required and additional evidence.
(g)
Aliens deportable under section 237(a)(4)(B) of the Act are ineligible to adjust status.
Section 237(a)(4)(B) of the Act renders any alien who has engaged, is engaged, or at any time after admission engages in any terrorist activity, as defined in section 212(a)(3)(B)(iii) of the Act, deportable. Under section 245(c)(6) of the Act, persons who are deportable under section 237(a)(4)(B) of the Act are ineligible to adjust status under section 245(a) of the Act. Any person who is deportable under section 237(a)(4)(B) of the Act is also ineligible to adjust status under section 245(i) of the Act.
(h)
Asylum or diversity immigrant visa applications.
An asylum application, diversity visa lottery application, or diversity visa lottery-winning letter does not serve to grandfather the alien for purposes of section 245(i) of the Act. However, an otherwise grandfathered alien may use winning a diversity visa as a basis for adjustment.
(i)
Denial, withdrawal, or revocation of the approval of a visa petition or application for labor certification.
The denial, withdrawal, or revocation of the approval of a qualifying immigrant visa
petition, or application for labor certification, that was properly filed on or before April 30, 2001, and that was approvable when filed, will not preclude its grandfathered alien (including the grandfathered alien's family members) from seeking adjustment of status under section 245(i) of the Act on the basis of another approved visa petition, a diversity visa, or any other ground for adjustment of status under the Act, as appropriate.
(j)
Substitution of a beneficiary on an application for a labor certification.
Only the alien who was the beneficiary of the application for the labor certification on or before April 30, 2001, will be considered to have been grandfathered for purposes of filing an application for adjustment of status under section 245(i) of the Act. An alien who was previously the beneficiary of the application for the labor certification but was subsequently replaced by another alien on or before April 30, 2001, will not be considered to be a grandfathered alien. An alien who was substituted for the previous beneficiary of the application for the labor certification after April 30, 2001, will not be considered to be a grandfathered alien.
(k)
Changes in employment.
An applicant for adjustment under section 245(i) of the Act who is adjusting status through an employment-based category is not required to work for the petitioner who filed the petition that grandfathered the alien, unless he or she is seeking adjustment based on employment for that same petitioner.
(l)
Effects of grandfathering on an alien's nonimmigrant status.
An alien's nonimmigrant status is not affected by the fact that he or she is a grandfathered alien. Lawful immigration status for a nonimmigrant is defined in § 245.1(d)(1)(ii).
(m)
Effect of grandfathering on unlawful presence under section 212(a)(9)(B) and (c) of the Act.
If the alien is not in a period of stay authorized by the Attorney General, the fact that he or she is a grandfathered alien does not prevent the alien from accruing unlawful presence under section 212(a)(9)(B) and (C) of the Act.
(n)
Evidentiary requirement to demonstrate physical presence on December 21, 2000.
(1) Unless the qualifying immigrant visa petition or application for labor certification was filed on or before January 14, 1998, a principal grandfathered alien must establish that he or she was physically present in the United States on December 21, 2000, to be eligible to apply to adjust status under section 245(i) of the Act. If no one document establishes the alien's physical presence on December 21, 2000, he or she may submit several documents establishing his or her physical presence in the United States prior to, and after December 21, 2000.
(2) To demonstrate physical presence on December 21, 2000, the alien may submit copies of documents issued by the former INS or EOIR such as arrival-departure forms or notices to appear in immigration court.
(3) To demonstrate physical presence on December 21, 2000, the alien may submit other government documentation. Other government documentation issued by a Federal, state, or local authority must bear the signature, seal, or other authenticating instrument of such authority (if the document normally bears such instrument), be dated at the time of issuance, and bear a date of issuance not later than December 21, 2000. For this purpose, the term Federal, state, or local authority includes any governmental, educational, or administrative function operated by Federal, state, county, or municipal officials. Examples of such other documentation include, but are not limited to:
(i) A state driver's license;
(ii) A state identification card;
(iii) A county or municipal hospital record;
(iv) A public college or public school transcript;
(v) Income tax records;
(vi) A certified copy of a Federal, state, or local governmental record which was created on or prior to December 21, 2000, shows that the applicant was present in the United States at the time, and establishes that the applicant sought on his or her own behalf, or some other party sought on the applicant's behalf, a benefit from the Federal, state, or local governmental agency keeping such record;
(vii) A certified copy of a Federal, state, or local governmental record
which was created on or prior to December 21, 2000, that shows that the applicant was present in the United States at the time, and establishes that the applicant submitted an income tax return, property tax payment, or similar submission or payment to the Federal, state, or local governmental agency keeping such record;
(viii) A transcript from a private or religious school that is registered with, or approved or licensed by, appropriate State or local authorities, accredited by the State or regional accrediting body, or by the appropriate private school association, or maintains enrollment records in accordance with State or local requirements or standards.
(4) To demonstrate physical presence on December 21, 2000, the alien may submit non-government documentation. Examples of documentation establishing physical presence on December 21, 2000, may include, but are not limited to:
(i) School records;
(ii) Rental receipts;
(iii) Utility bill receipts;
(iv) Any other dated receipts;
(v) Personal checks written by the applicant bearing a bank cancellation stamp;
(vi) Employment records, including pay stubs;
(vii) Credit card statements showing the dates of purchase, payment, or other transaction;
(viii) Certified copies of records maintained by organizations chartered by the Federal or State government, such as public utilities, accredited private and religious schools, and banks;
(ix) If the applicant established that a family unit was in existence and cohabiting in the United States, documents evidencing the presence of another member of the same family unit; and
(x) For applicants who have ongoing correspondence or other interaction with the Service, a list of the types and dates of such correspondence or other contact that the applicant knows to be contained or reflected in Service records.
(5)(i) The adjudicator will evaluate all evidence on a case-by-case basis and will not accept a personal affidavit attesting to physical presence on December 21, 2000, without requiring an interview or additional evidence to validate the affidavit.
(ii) In all cases, any doubts as to the existence, authenticity, veracity, or accuracy of the documentation shall be resolved by the official government record, with records of the Service and the Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) having precedence over the records of other agencies. Furthermore, determinations as to the weight to be given any particular document or item of evidence shall be solely within the discretion of the adjudicating authority (
i.e.
, the Service or EOIR). It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to obtain and submit copies of the records of any other government agency that the applicant desires to be considered in support of his or her application.
[59 FR 51095, Oct. 7, 1994; 59 FR 53020, Oct. 20, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 10384, Mar. 6, 1997; 62 FR 39424, July 23, 1997; 62 FR 55153, Oct. 23, 1997; 66 FR 16388, Mar. 26, 2001; 76 FR 53793, Aug. 29, 2011; 85 FR 46926, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 245.11
Adjustment of aliens in S nonimmigrant classification.
(a)
Eligibility.
An application on Form I-854, requesting that an alien witness or informant in S nonimmigrant classification be allowed to adjust status to that of lawful permanent resident, may only be filed by the federal or state law enforcement authority (“LEA”) (which shall include a federal or state court or a United States Attorney's Office) that originally requested S classification for the alien. The completed application shall be filed with the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, Department of Justice, who will forward only properly certified applications to the Commissioner, Immigration and Naturalization Service, for approval. Upon receipt of an approved Form I-854 allowing the S nonimmigrant to adjust status to that of lawful permanent resident, the alien may proceed to file with that Form, Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, pursuant to the following process.
(1)
Request to allow S nonimmigrant to apply for adjustment of status to that of lawful permanent resident.
The LEA that
requested S nonimmigrant classification for an S nonimmigrant witness or informant pursuant to section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act may request that the principal S nonimmigrant be allowed to apply for adjustment of status by filing Form I-854 with the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, in accordance with the instructions on, or attached to, that form and certifying that the alien has fulfilled the terms of his or her admission and classification. The same Form I-854 may be used by the LEA to request that the principals nonimmigrant's spouse, married and unmarried sons and daughters, regardless of age, and parents who are in derivative S nonimmigrant classification and who are qualified family members as described in paragraph (b) of this section similarly be allowed to apply for adjustment of status pursuant to section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act.
(2)
Certification.
Upon receipt of an LEA's request for the adjustment of an alien in S nonimmigrant classification on Form I-854, the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, shall review the information and determine whether to certify the request to the Commissioner in accordance with the instructions on the form.
(3)
Submission of requests for adjustment of status to the Commissioner.
No application by an LEA on Form I-854 requesting the adjustment to lawful permanent resident status of an S nonimmigrant shall be forwarded to the Commissioner unless first certified by the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division.
(4)
Decision on request to allow adjustment of S nonimmigrant.
The Commissioner shall make the final decision on a request to allow an S nonimmigrant to apply for adjustment of status to lawful permanent resident.
(i) In the event the Commissioner decides to deny an application on Form I-854 to allow an S nonimmigrant to apply for adjustment of status, the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, and the relevant LEA shall be notified in writing to that effect. The Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, shall concur in or object to that decision. Unless the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, objects within 7 days, he or she shall be deemed to have concurred in the decision. In the event of an objection by the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, the matter will be expeditiously referred to the Deputy Attorney General for a final resolution. In no circumstances shall the alien or the relevant LEA have a right of appeal from any decision to deny.
(ii) Upon approval of the request on Form I-854, the Commissioner shall forward a copy of the approved form to the Assistant Attorney General and the S nonimmigrant, notifying them that the S nonimmigrant may proceed to file Form I-485 and request adjustment of status to that of lawful permanent resident, and that, to be eligible for adjustment of status, the nonimmigrant must otherwise:
(A) Meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, if requesting adjustment as a qualified family member of the certified principal S nonimmigrant witness or informant;
(B) Be admissible to the United States as an immigrant, unless the ground of inadmissibility has been waived;
(C) Establish eligibility for adjustment of status under all provisions of section 245 of the Act, unless the basis for ineligibility has been waived; and
(D) Properly file with his or her Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, the approved Form I-854.
(b)
Family members
—(1)
Qualified family members.
A qualified family member of an S nonimmigrant includes the spouse, married or unmarried son or daughter, or parent of a principal S nonimmigrant who meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, provided that:
(i) The family member qualified as the spouse, married or unmarried son or daughter, or parent (as defined in section 101(b) of the Act) of the principal S nonimmigrant when the family member was admitted as or granted a change of status to that of a nonimmigrant under section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act;
(ii) The family member was admitted in S nonimmigrant classification to accompany, or follow to join, the principal S-5 or S-6 alien pursuant to the LEA's request;
(iii) The family member is not inadmissible from the United States as a participant in Nazi persecution or genocide as described in section 212(a)(3)(E) of the Act;
(iv) The qualifying relationship continues to exist; and
(v) The principal alien has adjusted status, has a pending application for adjustment of status or is concurrently filing an application for adjustment of status under section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act.
(vi) Paragraphs (b)(1)(iv) and (v) of this section do not apply if the alien witness or informant has died and, in the opinion of the Attorney General, was in compliance with the terms of his or her S classification under section 245(i) (1) and (2) of the Act.
(2)
Other family member.
The adjustment provisions in this section do not apply to a family member who has not been classified as an S nonimmigrant pursuant to a request on Form I-854 or who does not otherwise meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. However, a spouse or an unmarried child who is less than 21 years old, and whose relationship to the principal S nonimmigrant or qualified family member was established prior to the approval of the principal S nonimmigrant's adjustment of status application, may be accorded the priority date and preference category of the principal S nonimmigrant or qualified family member, in accordance with the provisions of section 203(d) of the Act. Such a spouse or child:
(i) May use the principal S nonimmigrant or qualified member's priority date and category when it becomes current, in accordance with the limitations set forth in sections 201 and 202 of the Act;
(ii) May seek immigrant visa issuance abroad or adjustment of status to that of a lawful permanent resident of the United States when the priority date becomes current for the spouse's or child's country of chargeability under the fourth employment-based preference classification;
(iii) Must meet all the requirements for immigrant visa issuance or adjustment of status, unless those requirements have been waived;
(iv) Is not applying for adjustment of status under 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act, is not required to file Form I-854, and is not required to obtain LEA certification; and
(v) Will lose eligibility for benefits if the child marries or has his or her twenty-first birthday before being admitted with an immigrant visa or granted adjustment of status.
(c)
Waivers of inadmissibility.
An alien seeking to adjust status pursuant to the provisions of section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act may not be denied adjustment of status for conduct or a condition that:
(1) Was disclosed to the Attorney General prior to admission; and
(2) Was specifically waived pursuant to the waiver provisions set forth at section 212(d)(1) and 212(d)(3) of the Act.
(d)
Application.
Each S nonimmigrant requesting adjustment of status under section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act must:
(1) File Form I-485, with the prescribed fee, accompanied by the approved Form I-854, and the supporting documents specified in the instructions to Form I-485 and described in 8 CFR 245.2. Secondary evidence may be submitted if the nonimmigrant is unable to obtain the required primary evidence as provided in 8 CFR 103.2(b)(2). The S nonimmigrant applying to adjust must complete Part 2 of Form I-485 by checking box “h-other” and writing “S” or “S-Qualified Family Member.” Qualified family members must submit documentary evidence of the relationship to the principal S nonimmigrant witness or informant.
(2) Submit detailed and inclusive evidence of eligibility for the adjustment of status benefits of S classification, which shall include:
(i) A photocopy of all pages of the alien's most recent passport or an explanation of why the alien does not have a passport; or
(ii) An attachment on a plain piece of paper showing the dates of all arrivals and departures from the United States in S nonimmigrant classification and the reason for each departure; and
(iii) Primary evidence of a qualifying relationship to the principal S nonimmigrant, such as birth or marriage certificate. If any required primary evidence is unavailable, church or school records, or other secondary evidence may be submitted. If such documents are unavailable, affidavits may be submitted as provided in 8 CFR 103.2(b)(2).
(e)
Priority date.
The S nonimmigrant's priority date shall be the date his or her application for adjustment of status as an S nonimmigrant is properly filed with the Service.
(f)
Visa number limitation.
An adjustment of status application under section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act may be filed regardless of the availability of immigrant visa numbers. The adjustment of status application may not, however, be approved and the alien's adjustment of status to that of lawful permanent resident of the United States may not be granted until a visa number becomes available for the alien under the worldwide allocation for employment-based immigrants under section 201(d) and section 203(b)(4) of the Act. The applicant may request employment authorization or permission to travel outside the United States while the application is pending by filing an application pursuant to 8 CFR 274a.13 or 8 CFR 223.2.
(g)
Filing and decision.
An application for adjustment of status filed by an S nonimmigrant under section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act shall be filed with the district director having jurisdiction over the alien's place of residence. Upon approval of adjustment of status under this section, the district director shall record the alien's lawful admission for permanent residence as of the date of such approval. The district director shall notify the Commissioner and the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, of the adjustment.
(h)
Removal under section 237 of the Act.
Nothing in this section shall prevent an alien adjusted pursuant to the terms of these provisions from being removed for conviction of a crime of moral turpitude committed within 10 years after being provided lawful permanent residence under this section or for any other ground under section 237 of the Act.
(i)
Denial of application.
In the event the district director decides to deny an application on Form I-485 and an approved Form I-854 to allow an S nonimmigrant to adjust status, the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, and the relevant LEA shall be notified in writing to that effect. The Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, shall concur in or object to that decision. Unless the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, objects within 7 days, he or she shall be deemed to have concurred in the decision. In the event of an objection by the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, the matter will be expeditiously referred to the Deputy Attorney General for a final resolution. In no circumstances shall the alien or the relevant LEA have a right of appeal from any decision to deny. A denial of an adjustment application under this paragraph may not be renewed in subsequent removal proceedings.
[60 FR 44269, Aug. 25, 1995; 60 FR 52248, Oct. 5, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 10384, Mar. 6, 1997; 76 FR 53793, Aug. 29, 2011]
§§ 245.12-245.14
[Reserved]
§ 245.15
Adjustment of status of certain Haitian nationals under the Haitian Refugee Immigrant Fairness Act of 1998 (HRIFA).
(a)
Definitions.
As used in this section, the terms:
Abandoned
and
abandonment
mean that both parents have, or the sole or surviving parent has, or in the case of a child who has been placed into a guardianship, the child's guardian or guardians have, willfully forsaken all parental or guardianship rights, obligations, and claims to the child, as well as all control over and possession of the child, without intending to transfer these rights to any specific person(s).
Guardian
means a person lawfully invested (by order of a competent Federal, State, or local authority) with the power, and charged with the duty, of taking care of, including managing the property, rights, and affairs of, a child.
Orphan
and
orphaned
refer to the involuntary detachment or severance of
a child from his or her parents due to any of the following:
(1) The death or disappearance of, desertion by, or separation or loss from both parents, as those terms are defined in § 204.3(b) of this chapter;
(2) The irrevocable and written release of all parental rights by the sole parent, as that term is defined in § 204.3(b) of this chapter, based upon the inability of that parent to provide proper care (within the meaning of that phrase in § 204.3(b) of this chapter) for the child, provided that at the time of such irrevocable release such parent is legally obligated to provide such care; or
(3) The death or disappearance, as that term is defined in § 204.3(b) of this chapter, of one parent and the irrevocable and written release of all parental rights by the sole remaining parent based upon the inability of that parent to provide proper care (within the meaning of that phrase in § 204.3(b) of this chapter) for the child, provided that at the time of such irrevocable release such parent is legally obligated to provide such care.
Parent, father,
or
mother
means a parent, father, or mother only where the relationship exists by reason of any of the circumstances set forth in paragraphs (A) through (E) of section 101(b)(1) of the Act.
Sole remaining parent
means a person who is the child's only parent because:
(1) The child's other parent has died; or
(2) The child's other parent has been certified by competent Haitian authorities to be presumed dead as a result of his or her disappearance, within the meaning of that term as set forth in § 204.3(b) of this chapter.
(b)
Applicability of provisions of section 902 of HRIFA in general.
Section 902 of Division A of Pub. L. 105-277, the Haitian Refugee Immigrant Fairness Act of 1998 (HRIFA), provides special rules for adjustment of status for certain nationals of Haiti, and without regard to section 241(a)(5) of the Act, if they meet the other requirements of HRIFA.
(1)
Principal applicants.
Section 902(b)(1) of HRIFA defines five categories of principal applicants who may apply for adjustment of status, if the alien was physically present in the United States on December 31, 1995:
(i) An alien who filed for asylum before December 31, 1995;
(ii) An alien who was paroled into the United States prior to December 31, 1995, after having been identified as having a credible fear of persecution, or paroled for emergent reasons or reasons deemed strictly in the public interest; or
(iii) An alien who at the time of arrival in the United States and on December 31, 1995, was unmarried and under 21 years of age and who:
(A) Arrived in the United States without parents in the United States and has remained, without parents, in the United States since his or her arrival;
(B) Became orphaned subsequent to arrival in the United States; or
(C) Was abandoned by parents or guardians prior to April 1, 1998, and has remained abandoned since such abandonment.
(2)
Dependents.
Section 902(d) of HRIFA provides for certain Haitian nationals to apply for adjustment of status as the spouse, child, or unmarried son or daughter of a principal HRIFA beneficiary, even if the individual would not otherwise be eligible for adjustment under section 902. The eligibility requirements for dependents are described further in paragraph (d) of this section.
(c)
Eligibility of principal HRIFA applicants.
A Haitian national who is described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is eligible to apply for adjustment of status under the provisions of section 902 of HRIFA if the alien meets the following requirements:
(1)
Physical presence.
The alien is physically present in the United States at the time the application is filed;
(2)
Proper application.
The alien properly files an application for adjustment of status in accordance with this section, including the evidence described in paragraphs (h), (i), (j), and (k) of this section. For purposes of § 245.15 of this chapter only, an Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status (Form I-485) submitted by a principal applicant for benefits under HRIFA may be considered to have been properly filed if it:
(i) Is received not later than March 31, 2000, at the Nebraska Service Center, the Board, or the Immigration Court having jurisdiction;
(ii) Has been properly completed and signed by the applicant;
(iii) Identifies the provision of HRIFA under which the applicant is seeking adjustment of status; and
(iv) Is accompanied by either:
(A) The correct fee as specified in 8 CFR 106.2; or
(B) [Reserved]
(3)
Admissibility.
The alien is not inadmissible to the United States for permanent residence under any provisions of section 212(a) of the Act, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section; and
(4)
Continuous physical presence.
The alien has been physically present in the United States for a continuous period beginning on December 31, 1995, and ending on the date the application for adjustment is granted, except for the following periods of time:
(i) Any period or periods of absence from the United States not exceeding 180 days in the aggregate; and
(ii) Any periods of absence for which the applicant received an advance parole authorization prior to his or her departure from the United States, provided the applicant returned to the United States in accordance with the conditions of such authorization.
(iii) Any periods of absence from the United States occurring after October 21, 1998, and before July 12, 1999, provided the applicant departed the United States prior to December 31, 1998.
(d)
Eligibility of dependents of a principal HRIFA beneficiary.
A Haitian national who is the spouse, child, or unmarried son or daughter of a principal beneficiary eligible for adjustment of status under the provisions of HRIFA is eligible to apply for benefits as a dependent, if the dependent alien meets the following requirements:
(1)
Physical presence.
The alien is physically present in the United States at the time the application is filed;
(2)
Proper application.
The alien properly files an application for adjustment of status as a dependent in accordance with this section, including the evidence described in paragraphs (h) and (l) of this section;
(3)
Admissibility.
The alien is not inadmissible to the United States for permanent residence under any provisions of section 212(a) of the Act, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section;
(4)
Relationship.
The qualifying relationship to the principal alien must have existed at the time the principal was granted adjustment of status and must continue to exist at the time the dependent alien is granted adjustment of status. To establish the qualifying relationship to the principal alien, evidence must be submitted in accordance with § 204.2 of this chapter. Such evidence should consist of the documents specified in § 204.2(a)(1)(i)(B), (a)(1)(iii)(B), (a)(2), (d)(2), and (d)(5) of this chapter;
(5)
Continuous physical presence.
If the alien is applying as the unmarried son or unmarried daughter of a principal HRIFA beneficiary, he or she must have been physically present in the United States for a continuous period beginning not later than December 31, 1995, and ending on the date the application for adjustment is granted, as provided in paragraphs (c)(4) and (j) of this section.
(e)
Applicability of grounds of inadmissibility contained in section 212(a)
—(1)
Certain grounds of inadmissibility inapplicable to HRIFA applicants.
Paragraphs (4), (5), (6)(A), (7)(A) and (9)(B) of section 212(a) of the Act are inapplicable to HRIFA principal applicants and their dependents. Accordingly, an applicant for adjustment of status under section 902 of HRIFA need not establish admissibility under those provisions in order to be able to adjust his or her status to that of permanent resident.
(2)
Availability of individual waivers.
If a HRIFA applicant is inadmissible under any of the other provisions of section 212(a) of the Act for which an immigrant waiver is available, the applicant may apply for one or more of the immigrant waivers of inadmissibility under section 212 of the Act, in accordance with § 212.7 of this chapter. In considering an application for waiver under section 212(g) of the Act by an otherwise statutorily eligible applicant
for adjustment of status under HRIFA who was paroled into the United States from the U.S. Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay, for the purpose of receiving treatment of an HIV or AIDS condition, the fact that his or her arrival in the United States was the direct result of a government decision to provide such treatment should be viewed as a significant positive factor when weighing discretionary factors. In considering an application for waiver under section 212(i) of the Act by an otherwise statutorily eligible applicant for adjustment of status under HRIFA who used counterfeit documents to travel from Haiti to the United States, the adjudicator shall, when weighing discretionary factors, take into consideration the general lawlessness and corruption which was widespread in Haiti at the time of the alien's departure, the difficulties in obtaining legitimate departure documents at that time, and other factors unique to Haiti at that time which may have induced the alien to commit fraud or make willful misrepresentations.
(3)
Special rule for waiver of inadmissibility grounds for HRIFA applicants under section 212(a)(9)(A) and 212(a)(9)(C) of the Act.
An applicant for adjustment of status under HRIFA who is inadmissible under section 212(a)(9)(A) or 212(a)(9)(C) of the Act, may apply for a waiver of these grounds of inadmissibility while present in the United States. Such an alien must file Form I-601, Application for Waiver of Grounds of Excludability. If the application for adjustment is pending at the Nebraska Service Center, Form I-601 must be filed with the director of that office. If the application for adjustment is pending at a district office, Form I-601 must be filed with the district director having jurisdiction over the application. If the application for adjustment is pending before the immigration court, Form I-601 must be filed with the immigration judge having jurisdiction, or with the Board of Immigration Appeals if the appeal is pending before the Board.
(f)
Time for filing of applications
—(1)
Applications for HRIFA benefits by a principal HRIFA applicant.
The application period begins on June 11, 1999. To benefit from the provisions of section 902 of HRIFA, an alien who is applying for adjustment as a principal applicant must properly file an application for adjustment of status before April 1, 2000.
(2)
Applications by dependent aliens.
The spouse, minor child, or unmarried son or daughter of an alien who is eligible for adjustment of status as a principal beneficiary under HRIFA may file an application for adjustment of status under this section concurrently with or subsequent to the filing of the application of the principal HRIFA beneficiary. An application filed by a dependent may not be approved prior to approval of the principal's application.
(g)
Jurisdiction for filing of applications
—(1)
Filing of applications with USCIS.
USCIS has jurisdiction over all applications for the benefits of section 902 of HRIFA as a principal applicant or as a dependent under this section, except for applications filed by aliens who are in pending immigration proceedings as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section. All applications filed with USCIS for the benefits of section 902 of HRIFA must be submitted on the form designated by USCIS with the fees prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2 and in accordance with the form instructions. After proper filing of the application, USCIS will instruct the applicant to appear for biometrics collection as prescribed in 8 CFR 103.16.
(2)
Filing of applications by aliens in pending exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings.
An alien who is in exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings pending before the Immigration Court or the Board, or who has a pending motion to reopen or motion to reconsider filed with the Immigration Court or the Board on or before May 12, 1999, must apply for HRIFA benefits to the Immigration Court or the Board, as provided in paragraph (p)(1) of this section, rather than to the Service. However, an alien whose proceeding has been administratively closed (see paragraph (p)(4) of this section) may only apply for HRIFA benefits with the Service as provided in paragraph (g)(1) of this section.
(3)(i)
Filing of applications with the Service by aliens who are subject to a final order of exclusion, deportation, or removal.
An alien who is subject to a
final order of exclusion, deportation, or removal, and who has not been denied adjustment of status under section 902 of HRIFA by the Immigration Court or the Board, may only apply for HRIFA benefits with the Service as provided in paragraph (g)(1) of this section. This includes applications for HRIFA benefits filed by aliens who have filed a motion to reopen or motion to reconsider a final order after May 12, 1999.
(ii) An alien present in the United States who is subject to a final order of exclusion, deportation, or removal and has been denied adjustment of status under section 902 of HRIFA by the Immigration Court or the Board, or who never applied for adjustment of status with the Service, an Immigration Court, or the Board on or before March 31, 2000, and who was made eligible for HRIFA benefits under the Legal Immigration Family Equity Act of 2000 (LIFE Act) and LIFE amendments, Public Law 106-553 and Public Law 106-554, respectively, may file a motion to reopen with either the Immigration Court or the Board, whichever had jurisdiction last. As provided by the LIFE Act, motions to reopen must be filed on or before June 19, 2001.
(iii)
Stay of final order of exclusion, deportation, or removal.
The filing of an application for adjustment under section 902 of HRIFA with the Service shall not stay the execution of such final order unless the applicant has requested and been granted a stay in connection with the HRIFA application. An alien who has filed a HRIFA application with the Service may file an Application for Stay of Removal (Form I-246) in accordance with section 241(c)(2) of the Act and § 241.6 of this chapter.
(iv)
Grant of stay.
Absent evidence of the applicant's statutory ineligibility for adjustment of status under section 902 of HRIFA or significant negative discretionary factors, a Form I-246 filed by a bona fide applicant for adjustment under section 902 of HRIFA shall be approved and the removal of the applicant shall be stayed until such time as the Service has adjudicated the application for adjustment in accordance with this section.
(h)
Application and supporting documents.
Each applicant for adjustment of status must file an Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status (Form I-485). An applicant should complete Part 2 of Form I-485 by checking box “h—other” and writing “HRIFA—Principal” or “HRIFA—Dependent” next to that block. Each application must be accompanied by:
(1)
Application fee.
The fee for Form I-485 prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2;
(2) [Reserved]
(3)
Identifying information.
(i) A copy of the applicant's birth certificate or other record of birth as provided in paragraph (m) of this section;
(ii) A completed Biographic Information Sheet (Form G-325A), if the applicant is between 14 and 79 years of age;
(iii) A report of medical examination, as specified in § 245.5 of this chapter; and
(iv) Two photographs, as described in the instructions to Form I-485;
(4)
Arrival-Departure Record.
A copy of the Form I-94 (see § 1.4), Arrival-Departure Record, issued at the time of the applicant's arrival in the United States, if the alien was inspected and admitted or paroled;
(5)
Police clearances.
If the applicant is 14 years old or older, a police clearance from each municipality where the alien has resided for 6 months or longer since arriving in the United States. If there are multiple local law enforcement agencies (e.g., city police and county sheriff) with jurisdiction over the alien's residence, the applicant may obtain a clearance from either agency. If the applicant resides or resided in a State where the State police maintain a compilation of all local arrests and convictions, a statewide clearance is sufficient. If the applicant presents a letter from the local police agencies involved, or other evidence, to the effect that the applicant attempted to obtain such clearance but was unable to do so because of local or State policy, the director or immigration judge having jurisdiction over the application may waive the local police clearance. Furthermore, if such local police agency has provided the Service or the Immigration Court with a blanket statement that issuance of such police clearance is against local or State policy, the director or immigration judge having jurisdiction over the case may waive the local police clearance
requirement regardless of whether the applicant individually submits a letter from that local police agency;
(6)
Proof of Haitian nationality.
If the applicant acquired Haitian nationality other than through birth in Haiti, a copy of the certificate of naturalization or certificate of citizenship issued by the Haitian government; and
(7)
Additional supporting evidence.
Additional supporting evidence pertaining to the applicant as provided in paragraphs (i) through (l) of this section.
(i)
Evidence of presence in the United States on December 31, 1995.
An alien seeking HRIFA benefits as a principal applicant must provide with the application evidence establishing the alien's presence in the United States on December 31, 1995. Such evidence may consist of the evidence listed in § 245.22.
(j)
Evidence of continuity of presence in the United States since December 31, 1995.
An alien seeking HRIFA benefits as a principal applicant, or as the unmarried son or daughter of a principal applicant, must provide with the application evidence establishing continuity of the alien's physical presence in the United States since December 31, 1995. (This requirement does not apply to a dependent seeking HRIFA benefits as the spouse or minor child of a principal applicant.)
(1)
Evidence establishing presence.
Evidence establishing the continuity of the alien's physical presence in the United States since December 31, 1995, may consist of any documentation issued by any governmental or nongovernmental authority, provided such evidence bears the name of the applicant, was dated at the time it was issued, and bears the signature, seal, or other authenticating instrument of the authorized representative of the issuing authority, if the document would normally contain such authenticating instrument.
(2)
Examples.
Documentation establishing continuity of physical presence may include, but is not limited to:
(i) School records;
(ii) Rental receipts;
(iii) Utility bill receipts;
(iv) Any other dated receipts;
(v) Personal checks written by the applicant bearing a dated bank cancellation stamp;
(vi) Employment records, including pay stubs;
(vii) Credit card statements showing the dates of purchase, payment, or other transaction;
(viii) Certified copies of records maintained by organizations chartered by the Federal or State government, such as public utilities, accredited private and religious schools, and banks;
(ix) If the applicant establishes that a family unit was in existence and cohabiting in the United States, documents evidencing presence of another member of that same family unit; and
(x) For applicants who have had ongoing correspondence or other interaction with the Service, a list of the types and dates of such correspondence or other contact that the applicant knows to be contained or reflected in Service records.
(3)
Evidence relating to absences from the United States since December 31, 1995.
If the alien is applying as a principal applicant, or as the unmarried son or daughter of a principal applicant, and has departed from and returned to the United States since December 31, 1995, the alien must provide with the application an attachment on a plain piece of paper showing:
(i) The date of the applicant's last arrival in the United States before December 31, 1995;
(ii) The date of each departure (if any) from the United States since that arrival;
(iii) The reason for each departure; and
(iv) The date, manner, and place of each return to the United States.
(k)
Evidence establishing the alien's eligibility under section 902(b) of HRIFA.
An alien seeking HRIFA benefits as a principal applicant must provide with the application evidence establishing that the alien satisfies one of the eligibility standards described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(1)
Applicant for asylum.
If the alien is a principal applicant who filed for asylum before December 31, 1995, the applicant must provide with the application either:
(i) A photocopy of the first page of the Application for Asylum and Withholding of Removal (Form I-589); or
(ii) If the alien is not in possession of a photocopy of the first page of the Form I-589, a statement to that effect giving the date of filing and the location of the Service office or Immigration Court at which it was filed;
(2)
Parolee.
If the alien is a principal applicant who was paroled into the United States prior to December 31, 1995, after having been identified as having a credible fear of persecution, or paroled for emergent reasons or reasons deemed strictly in the public interest, the applicant must provide with the application either:
(i) A photocopy of the Arrival-Departure Record (Form I-94) issued when he or she was granted parole; or
(ii) If the alien is not in possession of the original Form I-94, a statement to that effect giving the date of parole and the location of the Service port-of-entry at which parole was authorized.
(3)
Child without parents.
If the alien is a principal applicant who arrived in the United States as a child without parents in the United States, the applicant must provide with the application:
(i) Evidence, showing the date, location, and manner of his or her arrival in the United States, such as:
(A) A photocopy of the Form I-94 issued at the time of the alien's arrival in the United States;
(B) A copy of the airline or vessel records showing transportation to the United States;
(C) Other similar documentation; or
(D) If none of the documents in paragraphs (k)(3)(i)(A)-(C) of this section are available, a statement from the applicant, accompanied by whatever evidence the applicant is able to submit in support of that statement; and
(ii) Evidence establishing the absence of the child's parents, which may include either:
(A) Evidence showing the deaths of, or disappearance or desertion by, the applicant's parents; or
(B) Evidence showing that the applicant's parents did not live in the United States with the applicant. Such evidence may include, but is not limited to, documentation or affidavits showing that the applicant's parents have been continuously employed outside the United States, are deceased, disappeared, or abandoned the applicant prior to the applicant's arrival, or were otherwise engaged in activities showing that they were not in the United States, or (if they have been in the United States) that the applicant and his or her parents did not reside together.
(4)
Orphaned child.
If the alien is a principal applicant who is or was a child who became orphaned subsequent to arrival in the United States, the applicant must provide with the application:
(i) Evidence, showing the date, location, and manner of his or her arrival in the United States, such as:
(A) A photocopy of the Form I-94 issued at the time of the alien's arrival in the United States;
(B) A copy of the airline or vessel records showing transportation to the United States;
(C) Other similar documentation; or
(D) If none of the documents in paragraphs (k)(4)(i)(A)-(C) of this section are available, a statement from the applicant, accompanied by whatever evidence the applicant is able to submit in support of that statement; and
(ii) Either:
(A) The death certificates of both parents (or in the case of a child having only one parent, the death certificate of the sole parent) showing that the death or deaths occurred after the date of the applicant's arrival in the United States;
(B) Evidence from a State, local, or other court or governmental authority having jurisdiction and authority to make decisions in matters of child welfare establishing the disappearance of, the separation or loss from, or desertion by, both parents (or, in the case of a child born out of wedlock who has not been legitimated, the sole parent); or
(C) Evidence of:
(
1
) Either:
(
i
) The child having only a sole parent, as that term is defined in § 204.3(b) of this chapter;
(
ii
) The death of one parent; or
(
iii
) Certification by competent Haitian authorities that one parent is presumed dead as a result of his or her disappearance, within the meaning of that
term as set forth in § 204.3(b) of this chapter; and
(
2
) A copy of a written statement executed by the sole parent, or the sole remaining parent, irrevocably releasing all parental rights based upon the inability of that parent to provide proper care for the child.
(5)
Abandoned child.
If the alien is a principal applicant who was abandoned by parents or guardians prior to April 1, 1998, and has remained abandoned since such abandonment, the applicant must provide with the application:
(i) Evidence, showing the date, location, and manner of his or her arrival in the United States, such as:
(A) A photocopy of the Form I-94 issued at the time of the alien's arrival in the United States;
(B) A copy of the airline or vessel records showing transportation to the United States;
(C) Other similar documentation; or
(D) If none of the documents in paragraphs (k)(5)(i)(A)-(C) of this section are available, a statement from the applicant, accompanied by whatever evidence the applicant is able to submit in support of that statement; and
(ii) Either:
(A) Evidence from a State, local, or other court or governmental authority having jurisdiction and authority to make decisions in matters of child welfare establishing such abandonment; or
(B) Evidence to establish that the applicant would have been considered to be abandoned according to the laws of the State where he or she resides, or where he or she resided at the time of the abandonment, had the issue been presented to the proper authorities.
(l)
Evidence relating to applications by dependents under section 902(d) of HRIFA
—(1)
Evidence of spousal relationship.
If the alien is applying as the spouse of a principal HRIFA beneficiary, the applicant must provide with the application a copy of their certificate of marriage and copies of documents showing the legal termination of all other marriages by the applicant or the other beneficiary.
(2)
Evidence of parent-child relationship.
If the applicant is applying as the child, unmarried son, or unmarried daughter of a principal HRIFA beneficiary, and the principal beneficiary is not the applicant's biological mother, the applicant must provide with the application evidence to demonstrate the parent-child relationship between the principal beneficiary and the applicant. Such evidence may include copies of the applicant's parent's marriage certificate and documents showing the legal termination of all other marriages, an adoption decree, or other relevant evidence.
(m)
Secondary evidence.
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, if the primary evidence required in this section is unavailable, church or school records, or other secondary evidence pertinent to the facts in issue, may be submitted. If such documents are unavailable, affidavits may be submitted. The applicant may submit as many types of secondary evidence as necessary to establish birth, marriage, or other relevant events. Documentary evidence establishing that primary evidence is unavailable must accompany secondary evidence of birth or marriage in the home country. The unavailability of such documents may be shown by submission of a copy of the written request for a copy of such documents which was sent to the official keeper of the records. In adjudicating the application for adjustment of status under section 902 of HRIFA, the Service or immigration judge shall determine the weight to be given such secondary evidence. Secondary evidence may not be submitted in lieu of the documentation specified in paragraphs (i) or (j) of this section. However, subject to verification by the Service, if the documentation specified in this paragraph or in paragraphs (h)(3)(i), (i), (j), (l)(1), and (l)(2) of this section is already contained in the Service's file relating to the applicant, the applicant may submit an affidavit to that effect in lieu of the actual documentation.
(n)
Authorization to be employed in the United States while the application is pending
—(1)
Application for employment authorization.
An applicant for adjustment of status under section 902 of HRIFA who wishes to obtain initial or continued employment authorization during the pendency of the adjustment application must file an application on the form designated by USCIS with the
fee prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2 and in accordance with the form instructions. The applicant may submit the application either concurrently with or subsequent to the filing of the application for HRIFA benefits.
(2)
Adjudication and issuance.
Employment authorization may not be issued to an applicant for adjustment of status under section 902 of HRIFA until the adjustment application has been pending for 180 days, unless USCIS verifies that DHS records contain evidence that the applicant meets the criteria set forth in section 902(b) or 902(d) of HRIFA, and determines that there is no indication that the applicant is clearly ineligible for adjustment of status under section 902 of HRIFA, in which case USCIS may approve the application for employment authorization, and issue the resulting document, immediately upon such verification. If USCIS fails to adjudicate the application for employment authorization upon the expiration of the 180-day waiting period, or within 90 days of the filing of application for employment authorization, whichever comes later, the applicant shall be eligible for an employment authorization document. Nothing in this section shall preclude an applicant for adjustment of status under HRIFA from being granted an initial employment authorization or an extension of employment authorization under any other provision of law or regulation for which the applicant may be eligible.
(o)
Adjudication of HRIFA applications filed with the Service
—(1)
Referral for interview.
Except as provided in paragraphs (o)(2) and (o)(3) of this section, all aliens filing applications for adjustment of status with the Service under this section must be personally interviewed by an immigration officer at a local office of the Service. If the Director of the Nebraska Service Center determines that an interview of the applicant is necessary, the Director shall forward the case to the appropriate local Service office for interview and adjudication.
(2)
Approval without interview.
Upon examination of the application, including all other evidence submitted in support of the application, all relevant Service records and all other relevant law enforcement indices, the Director may approve the application without an interview if the Director determines that:
(i) The alien's claim to eligibility for adjustment of status under section 902 of HRIFA is verified through existing Service records; and
(ii) The alien is clearly eligible for adjustment of status.
(3)
Denial without interview.
If, upon examination of the application, all supporting documentation, all relevant Service records, and all other relevant law enforcement indices, the Director determines that the alien is clearly ineligible for adjustment of status under HRIFA and that an interview of the applicant is not necessary, the Director may deny the application.
(p)
Adjudication of HRIFA applications filed in pending exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings
—(1)
Proceedings pending before an Immigration Court.
Except as provided in paragraph (p)(4) of this section, the Immigration Court shall have sole jurisdiction over an application for adjustment of status under this section filed by an alien who is in exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings pending before an immigration judge or the Board, or who has a pending motion to reopen or motion to reconsider filed with an immigration judge or the Board on or before May 12, 1999. The immigration judge having jurisdiction over the exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings shall have jurisdiction to accept and adjudicate any application for adjustment of status under section 902 of HRIFA during the course of such proceedings. All applications for adjustment of status under section 902 of HRIFA filed with an Immigration Court shall be subject to the requirements of §§ 3.11 and 3.31 of this chapter.
(2)
Motion to reopen or motion to reconsider.
If an alien who has a pending motion to reopen or motion to reconsider timely filed with an immigration judge on or before May 12, 1999, files an application for adjustment of status under section 902 of HRIFA, the immigration judge shall reopen the alien's proceedings for consideration of the adjustment application, unless the alien is clearly ineligible for adjustment of status under section 902 of HRIFA.
(3)
Proceedings pending before the Board.
Except as provided in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, in the case of an alien who either has a pending appeal with the Board or has a pending motion to reopen or motion to reconsider timely filed with the Board on or before May 12, 1999, the Board shall remand, or reopen and remand, the proceedings to the Immigration Court for the sole purpose of adjudicating an application for adjustment of status under section 902 of HRIFA, unless the alien is clearly ineligible for adjustment of status under section 902 of HRIFA. If the immigration judge denies, or the alien fails to file, the application for adjustment of status under section 902 of HRIFA, the immigration judge shall certify the decision to the Board for consideration in conjunction with the applicant's previously pending appeal or motion.
(4)
Administrative closure of exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings.
(i) An alien who is in exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings, or who has a pending motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider such proceedings filed on or before May 12, 1999, may request that the proceedings be administratively closed, or that the motion be indefinitely continued, in order to allow the alien to file such application with the Service as prescribed in paragraph (g) of this section. If the alien appears to be eligible to file an application for adjustment of status under this section, the Immigration Court or the Board (whichever has jurisdiction) shall, with the concurrence of the Service, administratively close the proceedings or continue indefinitely the motion.
(ii) In the case of an otherwise-eligible alien whose exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings have been administratively closed for reasons not specified in this section, the alien may only apply before the Service for adjustment of status under this section.
(q)
Approval of HRIFA applications
—(1)
Applications approved by the Service.
If the Service approves the application for adjustment of status under the provisions of section 902 of HRIFA, the director shall record the alien's lawful admission for permanent residence as of the date of such approval and notify the applicant accordingly. The director shall also advise the alien regarding the delivery of his or her Permanent Resident Card and of the process for obtaining temporary evidence of alien registration. If the alien had previously been issued a final order of exclusion, deportation, or removal, such order shall be deemed canceled as of the date of the director's approval of the application for adjustment of status. If the alien had been in exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings that were administratively closed, such proceedings shall be deemed terminated as of the date of approval of the application for adjustment of status by the director.
(2)
Applications approved by an immigration judge or the Board.
If an immigration judge or (upon appeal) the Board grants an application for adjustment under the provisions of section 902 of HRIFA, the date of the alien's lawful admission for permanent residence shall be the date of such grant.
(r)
Review of decisions by the Service denying HRIFA applications
—(1)(i)
Denial notification.
If the Service denies the application for adjustment of status under the provisions of section 902 of HRIFA, the director shall notify the applicant of the decision and of any right to renew the application in proceedings before the Immigration Court.
(ii) An alien made eligible for adjustment of status under HRIFA by the LIFE Act amendments and whose case has not been referred to EOIR under paragraphs (r)(2) or (r)(3) of this section, may file a motion to reopen with the Service.
(2)
Renewal of application for HRIFA benefits in removal, deportation, or exclusion proceedings.
An alien who is not the subject of a final order of removal, deportation, or exclusion may renew his or her application for adjustment under section 902 of HRIFA during the course of such removal, deportation, or exclusion proceedings.
(i)
Initiation of removal proceedings.
In the case of an alien who is not maintaining valid nonimmigrant status and who had not previously been placed in exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings, the director shall initiate removal proceedings in accordance with § 239.1 of this chapter.
(ii)
Recalendaring or reinstatement of prior proceedings.
In the case of an alien whose previously initiated exclusion, deportation, or removal proceeding had been administratively closed or continued indefinitely under paragraph (p)(4) of this section, the director shall make a request for recalendaring or reinstatement to the Immigration Court that had administratively closed the proceeding, or the Board, as appropriate, when the application has been denied. The Immigration Court or the Board will then recalendar or reinstate the prior exclusion, deportation, or removal proceeding.
(iii)
Filing of renewed application.
A principal alien may file a renewed application for HRIFA benefits with the Immigration Court either before or after March 31, 2000, if he or she had filed his or her initial application for such benefits with the Service on or before March 31, 2000. A dependent of a principal applicant may file such renewed application with the Immigration Court either before or after March 31, 2000, regardless of when he or she filed his or her initial application for HRIFA benefits with the Service.
(3)
Aliens with final orders.
In the case of an alien who is the subject of an outstanding final order of exclusion, deportation, or removal, the Service shall refer the decision to deny the application by filing a Notice of Certification (Form I-290C) with the Immigration Court that issued the final order for consideration in accordance with paragraph (s) of this section.
(4)(i) An alien whose case has been referred to the Immigration Court under paragraphs (r)(2) or (r)(3) of this section, or who filed an appeal with the Board after his or her application for adjustment of status under section 902 of HRIFA was denied, and whose proceedings are pending, and who is now eligible for adjustment of status under HRIFA as amended by section 1505(b) of the LIFE Act and its amendments, may renew the application for adjustment of status with either the Immigration Court or the Board, whichever has jurisdiction. The application will be adjudicated in accordance with section 1505(b) of the LIFE Act and its amendments.
(ii) An alien present in the United States who is subject to a final order of exclusion, deportation or removal after his or her HRIFA adjustment application was denied by an Immigration Court or the Board, but who was made eligible for HRIFA adjustment as a result of section 1505(b) of the LIFE Act and its amendments, may file a motion to reopen with either the Immigration Court or the Board, whichever had jurisdiction last. Such motion to reopen must be filed on or before June 19, 2001.
(s)
Action of immigration judge upon referral of decision by a notice of certification
—(1)
General.
Upon the referral by a notice of certification of a decision to deny the application, in accordance with paragraph (r)(3) of this section, the immigration judge will conduct a hearing to determine whether the alien is eligible for adjustment of status under section 902 of HRIFA in accordance with this paragraph (s)(1).
(2)
Stay pending review.
When the Service refers a decision to the Immigration Court on a Notice of Certification (Form I-290C) in accordance with paragraph (r)(3) of this section, the referral shall not stay the execution of the final order. Execution of such final order shall proceed unless a stay of execution is specifically granted by the immigration judge, the Board, or an authorized Service officer.
(3)
Appeal of Immigration Court decision.
Once the immigration judge issues his or her decision on the application, either the alien or the Service may appeal the decision to the Board. Such appeal must be filed pursuant to the requirements for appeals to the Board from an Immigration Court decision set forth in §§ 3.3 and 3.8 of this chapter.
(4)
Rescission or reopening of the decision of an Immigration Court.
The decision of an Immigration Court under paragraph (s)(1) of this section denying an application for adjustment under section 902 of HRIFA for failure to appear may be rescinded or reopened only:
(i) Upon a motion to reopen filed within 180 days after the date of the denial if the alien demonstrates that the failure to appear was because of exceptional circumstances as defined in section 240(e)(1) of the Act;
(ii) Upon a motion to reopen filed at any time if the alien demonstrates that he or she did not receive notice of the hearing in person (or, if personal service was not practicable, through service by mail to the alien or to the alien's counsel of record, if any) or the alien demonstrates that he or she was in Federal or State custody and the failure to appear was through no fault of the alien; or
(iii) Upon a motion to reopen filed not later than June 19, 2001, by an alien present in the United States who became eligible for adjustment of status under HRIFA, as amended by section 1505, of Public Law 106-554.
(t)
Parole authorization for purposes of travel
—(1)
Travel from and return to the United States while the application for adjustment of status is pending.
If an applicant for benefits under section 902 of HRIFA desires to travel outside, and return to, the United States while the application for adjustment of status is pending, he or she must file a request for advance parole authorization on the form designated by USCIS with the fee prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2 and in accordance with the form instructions. Unless the applicant files an advance parole request prior to departing from the United States and USCIS approves such request, his or her application for adjustment of status under section 902 of HRIFA is deemed to be abandoned as of the moment of departure. Parole may only be authorized pursuant to the authority contained in, and the standards prescribed in, section 212(d)(5) of the Act.
(2)
Parole authorization for the purpose of filing an application for adjustment of status under section 902 of HRIFA.
(i) An otherwise eligible applicant who is outside the United States and wishes to come to the United States in order to apply for benefits under section 902 of HRIFA may request parole authorization for such purpose by filing a request on the form designated by USCIS with the fee prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2 and in accordance with the form instructions. Such application must be supported by a photocopy of the application for adjustment of status that the alien will file once he or she has been paroled into the United States. The applicant must include photocopies of all the supporting documentation listed in paragraph (h) of this section, except the filing fee, the medical report, the fingerprint card, and the local police clearances.
(ii) If the Director of the Nebraska Service Center is satisfied that the alien will be eligible for adjustment of status once the alien has been paroled into the United States and files the application, he or she may issue an Authorization for Parole of an Alien into the United States (Form I-512) to allow the alien to travel to, and be paroled into, the United States for a period of 60 days.
(iii) The applicant shall have 60 days from the date of parole to file the application for adjustment of status. If the alien files the application for adjustment of status within that 60-day period, the Service may re-parole the alien for such time as is necessary for adjudication of the application. Failure to file such application for adjustment of status within 60 days shall result in the alien being returned to the custody of the Service and being examined as an arriving alien applying for admission. Such examination will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of section 235(b)(1) of the Act if the alien is inadmissible under section 212(a)(6)(C) or 212(a)(7) of the Act, or section 240 of the Act if the alien is inadmissible under any other grounds.
(iv) Parole may only be authorized pursuant to the authority contained in, and the standards prescribed in, section 212(d)(5) of the Act. The authority of the Director of the Nebraska Service Center to authorize parole from outside the United States under this provision shall expire on March 31, 2000.
(3)
Effect of departure on an outstanding warrant of exclusion, deportation, or removal.
If an alien who is the subject of an outstanding final order of exclusion, deportation, or removal departs from the United States, with or without an advance parole authorization, such final order shall be executed by the alien's departure. The execution of such final order shall not preclude the applicant from filing an Application for Permission to Reapply for Admission Into the United States After Deportation or Removal (Form I-212)
in accordance with § 212.2 of this chapter.
(u)
Tolling the physical presence in the United States provision for certain individuals
—(1)
Departure with advance authorization for parole.
In the case of an alien who departed the United States after having been issued an Authorization for Parole of an Alien into the United States (Form I-512), and who returns to the United States in accordance with the conditions of that document, the physical presence in the United States requirement of section 902(b)(1) of HRIFA is tolled while the alien is outside the United States pursuant to the issuance of the Form I-512.
(2)
Request for parole authorization from outside the United States.
In the case of an alien who is outside the United States and submits an application for parole authorization in accordance with paragraph (t)(2) of this section, and such application for parole authorization is granted by the Service, the physical presence requirement contained in section 902(b)(1) of HRIFA is tolled from the date the application is received at the Nebraska Service Center until the alien is paroled into the United States pursuant to the issuance of the Form I-512.
(3)
Departure without advance authorization for parole.
In the case of an otherwise-eligible applicant who departed the United States on or before December 31, 1998, the physical presence in the United States provision of section 902(b)(1) of HRIFA is tolled as of October 21, 1998, and until July 12, 1999.
(v)
Judicial review of HRIFA adjustment of status determinations.
Pursuant to the provisions of section 902(f) of HRIFA, there shall be no judicial appeal or review of any administrative determination as to whether the status of an alien should be adjusted under the provisions of section 902 of HRIFA.
[64 FR 25767, May 12, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 15844, Mar. 24, 2000; 66 FR 29452, May 1, 2001; 67 FR 78673, Dec. 26, 2002; 76 FR 53793, Aug. 29, 2011; 78 FR 18472, Mar. 27, 2013; 85 FR 46926, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 245.18
Physicians with approved employment-based petitions serving in a medically underserved area or a Veterans Affairs facility.
(a)
Which physicians are eligible for this benefit?
Any alien physician who has been granted a national interest waiver under § 204.12 of this chapter may submit Form I-485 during the 6-year period following Service approval of a second preference employment-based immigrant visa petition.
(b)
Do alien physicians have special time-related requirements for adjustment?
(1) Alien physicians who have been granted a national interest waiver under § 204.12 of this chapter must meet all the adjustment of status requirements of this part.
(2) The Service shall not approve an adjustment application filed by an alien physician who obtained a waiver under section 203(b)(2)(B)(ii) of the Act until the alien physician has completed the period of required service established in § 204.12 of this chapter.
(c)
Are the filing procedures and documentary requirements different for these particular alien physicians?
Alien physicians submitting adjustment applications upon approval of an immigrant petition are required to follow the procedures outlined within this part with the following modifications.
(1) Delayed fingerprinting. Fingerprinting, as noted in the Form I-485 instructions, will not be scheduled at the time of filing. Fingerprinting will be scheduled upon the physician's completion of the required years of service.
(2) Delayed medical examination. The required medical examination, as specified in § 245.5, shall not be submitted with Form I-485. The medical examination report shall be submitted with the documentary evidence noting the physician's completion of the required years of service.
(d)
Employment authorization.
(1) Once USCIS has approved a petition described in paragraph (a) of this section, the alien physician may apply for permanent residence and employment authorization on the forms designated by USCIS with the fee prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2 and in accordance with the form instructions.
(2) Since section 203(b)(2)(B)(ii) of the Act requires the alien physician to complete the required employment before USCIS can approve the alien physician's adjustment application, an alien physician who was in lawful nonimmigrant status when he or she filed the adjustment application is not required to maintain a nonimmigrant status while the adjustment application remains pending. Even if the alien physician's nonimmigrant status expires, the alien physician shall not be considered to be unlawfully present, so long as the alien physician is practicing medicine in accordance with § 204.5(k)(4)(iii) of this chapter.
(e)
When does the Service begin counting the physician's 5-year or 3-year medical practice requirement?
Except as provided in this paragraph, the 6-year period during which a physician must provide the required 5 years of service begins on the date of the notice approving the Form I-140 and the national interest waiver. Alien physicians who have a 3-year medical practice requirement must complete their service within the 4-year period beginning on that date.
(1) If the physician does not already have employment authorization and so must obtain employment authorization before the physician can begin working, then the period begins on the date the Service issues the employment authorization document.
(2) If the physician formerly held status as a J-1 nonimmigrant, but obtained a waiver of the foreign residence requirement and a change of status to that of an H-1B nonimmigrant, pursuant to section 214(1) of the Act, as amended by section 220 of Public Law 103-416, and § 212.7(c)(9) of this chapter, the period begins on the date of the alien's change from J-1 to H-1B status. The Service will include the alien's compliance with the 3-year period of service required under section 214(l) in calculating the alien's compliance with the period of service required under section 203(b)(2)(B)(ii)(II) of the Act and this section.
(3) An alien may not include any time employed as a J-1 nonimmigrant physician in calculating the alien's compliance with the 5 or 3-year medical practice requirement. If an alien is still in J-1 nonimmigrant status when the Service approves a Form I-140 petition with a national interest job offer waiver, the aggregate period during which the medical practice requirement period must be completed will begin on the date the Service issues an employment authorization document.
(f)
Will the Service provide information to the physician about evidence and supplemental filings?
The Service shall provide the physician with the information and the projected timetables for completing the adjustment process, as described in this paragraph. If the physician either files the Form I-485 concurrently with or waits to subsequently file the Form I-485 while the previously filed Form I-140 is still pending, then the Service will given this information upon approval of the Form I-140. If the physician does not file the adjustment application until after approval of the Form I-140 visa petition, the Service shall provide this information upon receipt of the Form I-485 adjustment application.
(1) The Service shall note the date that the medical service begins (provided the physician already had work authorization at the time the Form I-140 was filed) or the date that an employment authorization document was issued.
(2) A list of the evidence necessary to satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section.
(3) A projected timeline noting the dates that the physician will need to submit preliminary evidence two years and 120 days into his or her medical service in an underserved area or VA facility, and a projected date six years and 120 days in the future on which the physician's final evidence of completed medical service will be due.
(g)
Will physicians be required to file evidence prior to the end of the 5 or 3-year period?
(1) For physicians with a 5-year service requirement, no later than 120 days after the second anniversary of the approval of Petition for Immigrant Worker, Form I-140, the alien physician must submit to the Service Center having jurisdiction over his or her place of employment documentary evidence that proves the physician has in fact fulfilled at least 12 months of qualifying employment. This may be
accomplished by submitting the following.
(i) Evidence noted in paragraph (h) of this section that is available at the second anniversary of the I-140 approval.
(ii) Documentation from the employer attesting to the fill-time medical practice and the date on which the physician began his or her medical service.
(2) Physicians with a 3-year service requirement are not required to make a supplemental filing, and must only comply with the requirements of paragraph (h) of this section.
(h)
What evidence is needed to prove final compliance with the service requirement?
No later than 120 days after completion of the service requirement established under § 204.12(a) of this section, an alien physician must submit to the Service Center having jurisdiction over his or her place of employment documentary evidence that proves the physician has in fact satisfied the service requirement. Such evidence must include, but is not limited to:
(1) Individual Federal income tax returns, including copies of the alien'sW-2 forms, for the entire 3-year period or the balance years of the 5-year period that follow the submission of the evidence required in paragraph (e) of this section;
(2) Documentation from the employer attesting to the full-time medical service rendered during the required aggregate period. The documentation shall address instances of breaks in employment, other than routine breaks such as paid vacations;
(3) If the physician established his or her own practice, documents noting the actual establishment of the practice, including incorporation of the medical practice (if incorporated), the business license, and the business tax returns and tax withholding documents submitted for the entire 3 year period, or the balance years of the 5-year period that follow the submission of the evidence required in paragraph (e) of this section.
(i)
What if the physician does not comply with the requirements of paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section?
If an alien physician does not submit (in accordance with paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section) proof that he or she has completed the service required under 8 CFR 204.12(a), USCIS shall serve the alien physician with a written notice of intent to deny the alien physician's application for adjustment of status and, after the denial is finalized, to revoke approval of the Form I-140 and national interest waiver. The written notice shall require the alien physician to provide the evidence required by paragraph (f) or (g) of this section. If the alien physician fails to submit the evidence within the allotted time, USCIS shall deny the alien physician's application for adjustment of status and shall revoke approval of the Form I-140 and of the national interest waiver.
(j)
Will a Service officer interview the physician?
(1) Upon submission of the evidence noted in paragraph (h) of this section, the Service shall match the documentary evidence with the pending form I-485 and schedule the alien physician for fingerprinting at an Application Support Center.
(2) The local Service office shall schedule the alien for an adjustment interview with a Service officer, unless the Service waives the interview as provided in § 245.6. The local Service office shall also notify the alien if supplemental documentation should either be mailed to the office, or brought to the adjustment interview.
(k)
Are alien physicians allowed to travel outside the United States during the mandatory 3 or 5-year service period?
An alien physician who has been granted a national interest waiver under § 204.12 of this chapter and has a pending application for adjustment of status may travel outside of the United States during the required 3 or 5-year service period by obtaining advanced parole prior to traveling. Such physicians may apply for advance parole on the form designated by USCIS with the fee prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2 and in accordance with the form instructions.
(l)
What if the Service denies the adjustment application?
If the Service denies the adjustment application, the
alien physician may renew the application in removal proceedings.
[65 FR 53895, Sept. 6, 2000; 65 FR 57861, Sept. 26, 2000; 65 FR 57944, Sept. 27, 2000; 67 FR 49563, July 31, 2002; 72 FR 19107, Apr. 17, 2007; 76 FR 53793, Aug. 29, 2011; 81 FR 82490, Nov. 18, 2016; 85 FR 46927, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 245.20
[Reserved]
§ 245.21
Adjustment of status of certain nationals of Vietnam, Cambodia, and Laos (section 586 of Public Law 106-429).
(a)
Eligibility.
USCIS may adjust the status to that of a lawful permanent resident, a native or citizen of Vietnam, Cambodia, or Laos who:
(1) Was inspected and paroled into the United States before October 1, 1997;
(2) Was paroled into the United States from Vietnam under the auspices of the Orderly Departure Program (ODP), a refugee camp in East Asia, or a displaced person camp administered by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in Thailand;
(3) Was physically present in the United States prior to and on October 1, 1997; and
(4) Is otherwise eligible to receive an immigrant visa and is otherwise admissible as an immigrant to the United States except as provided in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section.
(b)
Application.
An applicant must submit an application on the form designated by USCIS with the fee specified in 8 CFR 106.2 and in accordance with the form instructions.
(c)
Applications from aliens in immigration proceedings.
An alien in pending immigration proceedings who believes he or she is eligible for adjustment of status under section 586 of Public Law 106-429 must apply directly to USCIS in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. An immigration judge or the Board of Immigration Appeals may not adjudicate applications for adjustment of status under this section. An alien who is currently in immigration proceedings who alleges eligibility for adjustment of status under section 586 of Public Law 106-429 may contact USCIS counsel after filing an application to request the consent of USCIS to the filing of a joint motion for administrative closure. Unless USCIS consents to such a motion, the immigration judge or the Board may not defer or dismiss the proceeding in connection with section 586 of Public Law 106-429.
(d)
Applications from aliens with final orders of removal, deportation, or exclusion.
An alien with a final order of removal, deportation, or exclusion who believes he or she is eligible for adjustment of status under section 586 of Public Law 106-429 must apply directly to USCIS in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(1) An application under this section does not automatically stay the order of removal, deportation, or exclusion. An alien who is eligible for adjustment of status under section 586 of Public Law 106-429 may request a stay of removal during the pendency of the application. The regulations governing such a request are found at 8 CFR 241.6.
(2) DHS will exercise its discretion not to grant a stay of removal, deportation, or exclusion with respect to an alien who is inadmissible on any of the grounds specified in paragraph (m)(3) of this section, unless there is substantial reason to believe that USCIS will grant the necessary waivers of inadmissibility.
(3) An immigration judge or the Board may not grant a motion to re-open or stay in connection with an application under this section.
(4) If USCIS approves the application, the approval will constitute the automatic re-opening of the alien's immigration proceedings, vacating of the final order of removal, deportation, or exclusion, and termination of the reopened proceedings.
(e)
Grounds of inadmissibility that do not apply.
In making a determination of whether an applicant is otherwise eligible for admission to the United States for lawful permanent residence under the provisions of section 586 of Public Law 106-429, the grounds of inadmissibility under sections 212(a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(7)(A), and (a)(9) of the Act shall not apply.
(f)
Waiver of grounds of inadmissibility.
In connection with an application for adjustment of status under this section, the alien may apply for a waiver of the grounds of inadmissibility under sections 212(a)(1), (a)(6)(B), (a)(6)(C),
(a)(6)(F), (a)(8)(A), (a)(10)(B), and (a)(10)(D) of the Act as provided in section 586(c) of Public Law 106-429, if the alien demonstrates that a waiver is necessary to prevent extreme hardship to the alien, or to the alien's spouse, parent, son or daughter who is a U.S. citizen or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence. In addition, the alien may apply for any other waiver of inadmissibility under section 212 of the Act, if eligible. In order to obtain a waiver for any of these grounds, the applicant must submit an application on the form designated by USCIS with the fee prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2 and in accordance with the form instructions.
(g)
Evidence.
Applicants must submit evidence that demonstrates they are eligible for adjustment of status under section 586 of Public Law 106-429. Such evidence shall include the following:
(1) A birth certificate or other record of birth;
(2) Documentation to establish that the applicant was physically present in the United States on October 1, 1997, under the standards set forth in § 245.22 of this chapter.
(3) A copy of the applicant's Arrival-Departure Record (Form I-94) (see § 1.4) or other evidence that the alien was inspected or paroled into the United States prior to October 1, 1997, from one of the three programs listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Subject to verification, documentation pertaining to paragraph (a)(2) of this section is already contained in USCIS files and the applicant may submit an affidavit to that effect in lieu of actual documentation.
(h)
Employment authorization.
Applicants who want to obtain employment authorization based on a pending application for adjustment of status under this section may apply on the form specified by USCIS with the fee prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2 and in accordance with the form instructions.
(i)
Travel while an application to adjust status is pending.
An applicant who wishes to travel outside the United States while the application is pending must obtain advance permission by filing the application specified by USCIS with the fee prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2 and in accordance with the form instructions.
(j)
Approval and date of admission as a lawful permanent resident.
When USCIS approves an application to adjust status to that of lawful permanent resident based on section 586 of Public Law 106-429, the applicant will be notified in writing of USCIS's decision. In addition, the record of the alien's admission as a lawful permanent resident will be recorded as of the date of the alien's inspection and parole into the United States, as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(k)
Notice of denial.
When USCIS denies an application to adjust status to that of lawful permanent resident based on section 586 of Public Law 106-429, the applicant will be notified of the decision in writing.
(l)
Administrative review.
An alien whose application for adjustment of status under section 586 of Public Law 106-429 is denied by USCIS may appeal the decision to the Administrative Appeals Office in accordance with 8 CFR 103.3(a)(2).
[67 FR 78673, Dec. 26, 2002, as amended at 76 FR 53793, Aug. 29, 2011; 76 FR 73477, Nov. 29, 2011; 78 FR 18472, Mar. 27, 2013; 85 FR 46927, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 245.22
Evidence to demonstrate an alien's physical presence in the United States on a specific date.
(a)
Evidence.
Generally, an alien who is required to demonstrate his or her physical presence in the United States on a specific date in connection with an application to adjust status to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence should submit evidence according to this section. In cases where a more specific regulation relating to a particular adjustment of status provision has been issued in the 8 CFR, such regulation is controlling to the extent that it conflicts with this section.
(b)
The number of documents.
If no one document establishes the alien's physical presence on the required date, he or she may submit several documents establishing his or her physical presence in the United States prior to and after that date.
(c)
DHS-issued documentation.
An applicant for permanent residence may
demonstrate physical presence by submitting DHS-issued (or predecessor agency-issued) documentation such as an arrival-departure form or notice to appear in immigration proceedings.
(d)
Government-issued documentation.
To demonstrate physical presence on the required date, the alien may submit other government documentation. Other government documentation issued by a Federal, State, or local authority must bear the signature, seal, or other authenticating instrument of such authority (if the document normally bears such instrument), be dated at the time of issuance, and bear a date of issuance not later than the required date. For this purpose, the term Federal, State, or local authority includes any governmental, educational, or administrative function operated by Federal, State, county, or municipal officials. Examples of such other documentation include, but are not limited to:
(1) A state driver's license;
(2) A state identification card;
(3) A county or municipal hospital record;
(4) A public college or public school transcript;
(5) Income tax records;
(6) A certified copy of a Federal, State, or local governmental record that was created on or prior to the required date, shows that the applicant was present in the United States at the time, and establishes that the applicant sought in his or her own behalf, or some other party sought in the applicant's behalf, a benefit from the Federal, State, or local governmental agency keeping such record;
(7) A certified copy of a Federal, State, or local governmental record that was created on or prior to the required date, that shows that the applicant was present in the United States at the time, and establishes that the applicant submitted an income tax return, property tax payment, or similar submission or payment to the Federal, State, or local governmental agency keeping such record; or
(8) A transcript from a private or religious school that is registered with, or approved or licensed by, appropriate State or local authorities, accredited by the State or regional accrediting body, or by the appropriate private school association, or maintains enrollment records in accordance with State or local requirements or standards. Such evidence will only be accepted to document the physical presence of an alien who was in attendance and under the age of 21 on the specific date that physical presence in the United States is required.
(e)
Copies of records.
It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to obtain and submit copies of the records of any other government agency that the applicant desires to be considered in support of his or her application. If the alien is not in possession of such a document or documents, but believes that a copy is already contained in the Service file relating to him or her, he or she may submit a statement as to the name and location of the issuing Federal, State, or local government agency, the type of document and the date on which it was issued.
(f)
Other relevant document(s) and evaluation of evidence.
The adjudicator will consider any other relevant document(s) as well as evaluate all evidence submitted, on a case-by-case basis. The Service may require an interview when necessary.
(g)
Accuracy of documentation.
In all cases, any doubts as to the existence, authenticity, veracity, or accuracy of the documentation shall be resolved by the official government record, with records of the Service having precedence over the records of other agencies. Furthermore, determinations as to the weight to be given any particular document or item of evidence shall be solely within the discretion of the adjudicating authority.
[67 FR 78674, Dec. 26, 2002, as amended at 76 FR 53794, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 245.23
Adjustment of noncitizens in T nonimmigrant classification.
(a)
Eligibility of principal T-1 applicants.
Except as described in paragraph (c) of this section, a noncitizen may be granted adjustment of status to that of a noncitizen lawfully admitted for permanent residence, provided the noncitizen:
(1) Applies for such adjustment.
(2) Was lawfully admitted to the United States as a T-1 nonimmigrant, as defined in 8 CFR 214.201.
(3) Continues to hold T-1 nonimmigrant status at the time of application.
(4) Has been physically present in the United States for a continuous period of at least 3 years since the date of lawful admission as a T-1 nonimmigrant, or has been physically present in the United States for a continuous period during the investigation or prosecution of acts of trafficking and the Attorney General has determined that the investigation or prosecution is complete, whichever period is less; except
(i) If the applicant has departed from the United States for any single period in excess of 90 days or for any periods in the aggregate exceeding 180 days, the applicant shall be considered to have failed to maintain continuous physical presence in the United States for purposes of section 245(l)(1)(A) of the Act; and
(ii) If the noncitizen was granted T nonimmigrant status, such noncitizen's physical presence in the CNMI before, on, or after November 28, 2009, and subsequent to the grant of T nonimmigrant status, is considered as equivalent to presence in the United States pursuant to an admission in T nonimmigrant status.
(5) Is admissible to the United States under the Act, or otherwise has been granted a waiver by USCIS of any applicable ground of inadmissibility, at the time of examination for adjustment.
(6) Has been a person of good moral character since first being lawfully admitted as a T-1 nonimmigrant and until USCIS completes the adjudication of the application for adjustment of status.
(7)(i) Has, since first being lawfully admitted as a T-1 nonimmigrant, and until the conclusion of adjudication of the application, complied with any reasonable request for assistance in the detection, investigation or prosecution of acts of trafficking, as defined in § 8 CFR 214.201; or
(ii) Would suffer extreme hardship involving unusual and severe harm upon removal from the United States, as provided in 8 CFR 214.209; or
(iii) Was younger than 18 years of age at the time of the victimization that qualified the T nonimmigrant for relief under section 101(a)(15)(T) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(T); or
(iv) Established an inability to cooperate with a reasonable request for assistance at the time their Application for T Nonimmigrant Status was approved, as defined in 8 CFR 214.202(c)(1) and (2).
(b)
Eligibility of derivative family members.
A derivative family member of a T-1 nonimmigrant status holder may be granted adjustment of status to that of a noncitizen lawfully admitted for permanent residence, provided:
(1) The T-1 nonimmigrant has applied for adjustment of status under this section and meets the eligibility requirements described under paragraph (a) of this section;
(2) The derivative family member was lawfully admitted to the United States in derivative T nonimmigrant status under section 101(a)(15)(T)(ii) of the Act, and continues to hold such status at the time of application;
(3) The derivative family member has applied for such adjustment; and
(4) The derivative family member is admissible to the United States under the Act, or otherwise has been granted a waiver by USCIS of any applicable ground of inadmissibility, at the time of examination for adjustment.
(5) The derivative family member does not automatically lose T nonimmigrant status when the T-1 nonimmigrant adjusts status.
(c)
Exceptions.
A noncitizen is not eligible for adjustment of status under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section if:
(1) Their T nonimmigrant status has been revoked pursuant to 8 CFR 214.213;
(2) They are described in section 212(a)(3), 212(a)(10)(C), or 212(a)(10)(E) of the Act; or
(3) They are inadmissible under any other provisions of section 212(a) of the Act and have not obtained a waiver of inadmissibility in accordance with 8 CFR 212.18 or 214.210.
(4) Where the applicant establishes that the victimization was a central reason for their unlawful presence in the United States, section
212(a)(9)(B)(iii) of the Act is not applicable, and the applicant need not obtain a waiver of that ground of inadmissibility. The applicant, however, must submit with their application for adjustment of status evidence sufficient to demonstrate that the victimization suffered was a central reason for the unlawful presence in the United States. To qualify for this exception, the victimization need not be the sole reason for the unlawful presence but the nexus between the victimization and the unlawful presence must be more than tangential, incidental, or superficial.
(d)
Jurisdiction.
(1) USCIS shall determine whether a T-1 applicant for adjustment of status under this section was lawfully admitted as a T-1 nonimmigrant and continues to hold such status, has been physically present in the United States during the requisite period, is admissible to the United States or has otherwise been granted a waiver of any applicable ground of inadmissibility, and has been a person of good moral character during the requisite period.
(2) USCIS shall determine whether the applicant received a reasonable request for assistance in the investigation or prosecution of acts of trafficking as defined in 8 CFR 214.201 and 214.208(c), and, if so, whether the applicant complied in such request.
(3) If USCIS determines that the applicant failed to comply with any reasonable request for assistance, USCIS shall deny the application for adjustment of status unless USCIS finds that the applicant would suffer extreme hardship involving unusual and severe harm upon removal from the United States.
(e)
Application
—(1)
Filing requirements.
Each T-1 principal applicant and each derivative family member who is applying for adjustment of status must file an Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status; and
(i) Accompanying documents, in accordance with the form instructions;
(ii) A photocopy of the applicant's Notice of Action, granting T nonimmigrant status;
(iii) A photocopy of all pages of their most recent passport or an explanation of why they do not have a passport;
(iv) A copy of the applicant's Arrival-Departure Record; and
(v) Evidence that the applicant was lawfully admitted in T nonimmigrant status and continues to hold such status at the time of application. For T nonimmigrants who traveled outside the United States and returned to the United States after presenting an Advance Parole Document issued while the adjustment of status application was pending, the date that the applicant was first admitted in lawful T status will be the date of admission for purposes of this section, regardless of how the applicant's Arrival-Departure Record is annotated.
(2)
T-1 principal applicants.
In addition to the items in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, T-1 principal applicants must submit:
(i) Evidence, including an affidavit from the applicant and a photocopy of all pages of all of the applicant's passports valid during the required period (or equivalent travel document or a valid explanation of why the applicant does not have a passport), that they have been continuously physically present in the United States for the requisite period as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Applicants should submit evidence described in § 245.22. A signed statement from the applicant attesting to the applicant's continuous physical presence alone will not be sufficient to establish this eligibility requirement. If additional documentation is not available, the applicant must explain why in an affidavit and provide additional affidavits from others with first-hand knowledge who can attest to the applicant's continuous physical presence by specific facts.
(A) If the applicant has departed from and returned to the United States while in T-1 nonimmigrant status, the applicant must submit supporting evidence showing the dates of each departure from the United States and the date, manner, and place of each return to the United States.
(B) Applicants applying for adjustment of status under this section who have less than 3 years of continuous physical presence while in T-1 nonimmigrant status must submit a document signed by the Attorney General
or their designee, attesting that the investigation or prosecution is complete.
(ii) Evidence of good moral character in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section; and
(A) Evidence that the applicant has complied with any reasonable request for assistance in the investigation or prosecution of the trafficking as described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section since having first been lawfully admitted in T-1 nonimmigrant status and until the adjudication of the application; or
(B) Evidence that the applicant would suffer extreme hardship involving unusual and severe harm if removed from the United States as described in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
(3)
Evidence relating to discretion.
Each applicant seeking adjustment under section 245(l) of the Act bears the burden of showing that discretion should be exercised in their favor. Where adverse factors are present, an applicant may offset these by submitting supporting documentation establishing mitigating equities that the applicant wants USCIS to consider. Depending on the nature of adverse factors, the applicant may be required to clearly demonstrate that the denial of adjustment of status would result in exceptional and extremely unusual hardship. Moreover, depending on the gravity of the adverse factors, such a showing might still be insufficient. For example, only the most compelling positive factors would justify a favorable exercise of discretion in cases where the applicant has committed or been convicted of a serious violent crime, a crime involving sexual abuse committed upon a child, or multiple drug-related crimes, or where there are security- or terrorism-related concerns.
(f)
Assistance in the investigation or prosecution or a showing of extreme hardship.
Each T-1 principal applicant must establish that since having been lawfully admitted as a T-1 nonimmigrant and up until the adjudication of the application, they complied with any reasonable request for assistance in the investigation or prosecution of the acts of trafficking, as defined in 8 CFR 214.201, or establish that they would suffer extreme hardship involving unusual and severe harm upon removal from the United States.
(1) Each T-1 applicant for adjustment of status under section 245(l) of the Act must submit evidence demonstrating that the applicant has complied with any reasonable requests for assistance in the investigation or prosecution of the human trafficking offenses during the requisite period; or
(2) In lieu of showing continued compliance with requests for assistance, an applicant may establish that they would suffer extreme hardship involving unusual and severe harm upon removal from the United States.
(i) The hardship determination will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis, in accordance with the factors described in 8 CFR 214.209.
(ii) Where the basis for the hardship claim represents a continuation of the hardship claimed in the Application for T Nonimmigrant Status, the applicant need not re-document the entire claim, but rather may submit evidence to establish that the previously established hardship is ongoing. However, in reaching its decision regarding hardship under this section, USCIS is not bound by its previous hardship determination made under 8 CFR 214.209.
(g)
Good moral character.
A T-1 nonimmigrant applicant for adjustment of status under this section must demonstrate that they have been a person of good moral character since first being lawfully admitted as a T-1 nonimmigrant and until USCIS completes the adjudication of their applications for adjustment of status. Claims of good moral character will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis, taking into account section 101(f) of the Act and the standards of the community. The applicant must submit evidence of good moral character as follows:
(1) An affidavit from the applicant attesting to their good moral character, accompanied by a local police clearance or a state-issued criminal background check from each locality or state in the United States in which the applicant has resided for 6 or more months during the requisite period in continued presence or T-1 nonimmigrant status.
(2) If police clearances, criminal background checks, or similar reports
are not available for some or all locations, the applicant may include an explanation and submit other evidence with their affidavit.
(3) USCIS will consider other credible evidence of good moral character, such as affidavits from responsible persons who can knowledgeably attest to the applicant's good moral character.
(4) An applicant who is under 14 years of age is generally presumed to be a person of good moral character and is not required to submit evidence of good moral character. However, if there is reason to believe that an applicant who is under 14 years of age may lack good moral character, USCIS may require evidence of good moral character.
(h)
Filing and decision.
An application for adjustment of status from a T nonimmigrant under section 245(l) of the Act shall be filed with the USCIS office identified in the instructions to the Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status. Upon approval of adjustment of status under this section, USCIS will record the noncitizen's lawful admission for permanent residence as of the date of such approval and will notify the applicant in writing. Derivative family members' applications may not be approved before the principal applicant's application is approved.
(i)
Denial.
If the application for adjustment of status or the application for a waiver of inadmissibility is denied, USCIS will notify the applicant in writing of the reasons for the denial and of the right to appeal the decision to the Administrative Appeals Office (AAO) pursuant to the AAO appeal procedures found at 8 CFR 103.3. Denial of the T-1 principal applicant's application will result in the automatic denial of a derivative family member's application.
(j)
Effect of Departure.
(1) If an applicant for adjustment of status under this section departs the United States, they shall be deemed to have abandoned the application, and it will be denied.
(2) If, however, the applicant is not under exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings, and they filed an Application for Travel Document, in accordance with the instructions on the form, or any other appropriate form, and was granted advance parole by USCIS for such absences, and was inspected and paroled upon returning to the United States, they will not be deemed to have abandoned the application.
(3) If the adjustment of status application of such an individual is subsequently denied, they will be treated as an applicant for admission subject to sections 212 and 235 of the Act. If an applicant for adjustment of status under this section is under exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings, USCIS will deem the application for adjustment of status abandoned as of the moment of the applicant's departure from the United States.
(k)
Inapplicability.
Sections 245.1 and 245.2 do not apply to noncitizens seeking adjustment of status under this section.
(l)
Annual limit of T-1 principal applicant adjustments
—(1)
General.
The total number of T-1 principal applicants whose status is adjusted to that of lawful permanent residents under this section may not exceed the statutory limit in any fiscal year.
(2)
Waiting list.
(i) All eligible applicants who, due solely to the limit imposed in section 245(l)(4) of the Act and paragraph (l)(1) of this section, are not granted adjustment of status will be placed on a waiting list. USCIS will send the applicant written notice of such placement.
(ii) Priority on the waiting list will be determined by the date the application was properly filed, with the oldest applications receiving the highest priority.
(iii) In the following fiscal year, USCIS will proceed with granting adjustment of status to applicants on the waiting list who remain admissible and eligible for adjustment of status in order of highest priority until the available numbers are exhausted for the given fiscal year.
(iv) After the status of qualifying applicants on the waiting list has been adjusted, any remaining numbers for that fiscal year will be issued to new qualifying applicants in the order that the applications were properly filed.
[89 FR 34941, Apr. 30, 2024]
§ 245.24
Adjustment of aliens in U nonimmigrant status.
(a)
Definitions.
As used in this section, the term:
(1)
Continuous Physical Presence
means the period of time that the alien has been physically present in the United States and must be a continuous period of at least 3 years since the date of admission as a U nonimmigrant continuing through the date of the conclusion of adjudication of the application for adjustment of status. If the alien has departed from the United States for any single period in excess of 90 days or for any periods in the aggregate exceeding 180 days, the applicant must include a certification from the agency that signed the Form I-918, Supplement B, in support of the alien's U nonimmigrant status that the absences were necessary to assist in the criminal investigation or prosecution or were otherwise justified.
(2)
Qualifying Family Member
means a U-1 principal applicant's spouse, child, or, in the case of an alien child, a parent who has never been admitted to the United States as a nonimmigrant under sections 101(a)(15)(U) and 214(p) of the Act.
(3)
U Interim Relief
means deferred action and work authorization benefits provided by USCIS or the Immigration and Naturalization Service to applicants for U nonimmigrant status deemed
prima facie
eligible for U nonimmigrant status prior to publication of the U nonimmigrant status regulations.
(4)
U Nonimmigrant
means an alien who is in lawful U-1, U-2, U-3, U-4, or U-5 status.
(5)
Refusal to Provide Assistance in a Criminal Investigation or Prosecution
is the refusal by the alien to provide assistance to a law enforcement agency or official that had responsibility for the investigation or prosecution of persons in connection with the qualifying criminal activity after the alien was granted U nonimmigrant status. The Attorney General will determine whether the alien's refusal was unreasonable under the totality of the circumstances based on all available affirmative evidence. The Attorney General may take into account such factors as general law enforcement, prosecutorial, and judicial practices; the kinds of assistance asked of other victims of crimes involving an element of force, coercion, or fraud; the nature of the request to the alien for assistance; the nature of the victimization; the applicable guidelines for victim and witness assistance; and the specific circumstances of the applicant, including fear, severe traumatization (both mental and physical), and the age and maturity of the applicant.
(b)
Eligibility of U Nonimmigrants.
Except as described in paragraph (c) of this section, an alien may be granted adjustment of status to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence, provided the alien:
(1) Applies for such adjustment;
(2)(i) Was lawfully admitted to the United States as either a U-1, U-2, U-3, U-4 or U-5 nonimmigrant, as defined in 8 CFR 214.1(a)(2), and
(ii) Continues to hold such status at the time of application; or accrued at least 4 years in U interim relief status and files a complete adjustment application within 120 days of the date of approval of the Form I-918, Petition for U Nonimmigrant Status;
(3) Has continuous physical presence for 3 years as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section;
(4) Is not inadmissible under section 212(a)(3)(E) of the Act;
(5) Has not unreasonably refused to provide assistance to an official or law enforcement agency that had responsibility in an investigation or prosecution of persons in connection with the qualifying criminal activity after the alien was granted U nonimmigrant status, as determined by the Attorney General, based on affirmative evidence; and
(6) Establishes to the satisfaction of the Secretary that the alien's presence in the United States is justified on humanitarian grounds, to ensure family unity, or is in the public interest.
(c)
Exception.
An alien is not eligible for adjustment of status under paragraph (b) of this section if the alien's U nonimmigrant status has been revoked pursuant to 8 CFR 214.14(h).
(d)
Application Procedures for U nonimmigrants.
Each U nonimmigrant who is requesting adjustment of status must submit:
(1) Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, in accordance with the form instructions;
(2) The fee prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2 or an application for a fee waiver;
(3) [Reserved]
(4) A photocopy of the alien's Form I-797, Notice of Action, granting U nonimmigrant status;
(5) A photocopy of all pages of all of the applicant's passports valid during the required period (or equivalent travel document or a valid explanation of why the applicant does not have a passport) and documentation showing the following:
(i) The date of any departure from the United States during the period that the applicant was in U nonimmigrant status;
(ii) The date, manner, and place of each return to the United States during the period that the applicant was in U nonimmigrant status; and
(iii) If the applicant has been absent from the United States for any period in excess of 90 days or for any periods in the aggregate of 180 days or more, a certification from the investigating or prosecuting agency that the absences were necessary to assist in the investigation or prosecution of the criminal activity or were otherwise justified;
(6) A copy of the alien's Form I-94 (see § 1.4), Arrival-Departure Record;
(7) Evidence that the applicant was lawfully admitted in U nonimmigrant status and continues to hold such status at the time of application;
(8) Evidence pertaining to any request made to the alien by an official or law enforcement agency for assistance in an investigation or prosecution of persons in connection with the qualifying criminal activity, and the alien's response to such request;
(9) Evidence, including an affidavit from the applicant, that he or she has continuous physical presence for at least 3 years as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Applicants should submit evidence described in 8 CFR 245.22. A signed statement from the applicant attesting to continuous physical presence alone will not be sufficient to establish this eligibility requirement. If additional documentation is not available, the applicant must explain why in an affidavit and provide additional affidavits from others with first-hand knowledge who can attest to the applicant's continuous physical presence by specific facts;
(10)
Evidence establishing that approval is warranted.
Any other information required by the instructions to Form I-485, including whether adjustment of status is warranted as a matter of discretion on humanitarian grounds, to ensure family unity, or is otherwise in the public interest; and
(11)
Evidence relating to discretion.
An applicant has the burden of showing that discretion should be exercised in his or her favor. Although U adjustment applicants are not required to establish that they are admissible, USCIS may take into account all factors, including acts that would otherwise render the applicant inadmissible, in making its discretionary decision on the application. Where adverse factors are present, an applicant may offset these by submitting supporting documentation establishing mitigating equities that the applicant wants USCIS to consider when determining whether or not a favorable exercise of discretion is appropriate. Depending on the nature of the adverse factors, the applicant may be required to clearly demonstrate that the denial of adjustment of status would result in exceptional and extremely unusual hardship. Moreover, depending on the gravity of the adverse factors, such a showing might still be insufficient. For example, USCIS will generally not exercise its discretion favorably in cases where the applicant has committed or been convicted of a serious violent crime, a crime involving sexual abuse committed upon a child, or multiple drug-related crimes, or where there are security- or terrorism-related concerns.
(e)
Continued assistance in the investigation or prosecution.
Each applicant for adjustment of status under section 245(m) of the Act must provide evidence of whether or not any request was made to the alien to provide assistance, after having been lawfully admitted as a U nonimmigrant, in an investigation or prosecution of persons in
connection with the qualifying criminal activity, and his or her response to any such requests.
(1) An applicant for adjustment of status under section 245(m) of the Act may submit a document signed by an official or law enforcement agency that had responsibility for the investigation or prosecution of persons in connection with the qualifying criminal activity, affirming that the applicant complied with (or did not unreasonably refuse to comply with) reasonable requests for assistance in the investigation or prosecution during the requisite period. To meet this evidentiary requirement, applicants may submit a newly executed Form I-918, Supplement B, “U Nonimmigrant Status Certification.”
(2) If the applicant does not submit a document described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the applicant may submit an affidavit describing the applicant's efforts, if any, to obtain a newly executed Form I-918, Supplement B, or other evidence describing whether or not the alien received any request to provide assistance in a criminal investigation or prosecution, and the alien's response to any such request.
(i) The applicant should also include, when possible, identifying information about the law enforcement personnel involved in the case and any information, of which the applicant is aware, about the status of the criminal investigation or prosecution, including any charges filed and the outcome of any criminal proceedings, or whether the investigation or prosecution was dropped and the reasons.
(ii) If applicable, an applicant may also provide a more detailed description of situations where the applicant refused to comply with requests for assistance because the applicant believed that the requests for assistance were unreasonable.
(3) In determining whether the applicant has satisfied the continued assistance requirement, USCIS or the Department of Justice may at its discretion contact the certifying agency that executed the applicant's original Form I-918, Supplement B, “U Nonimmigrant Status Certification” or any other law enforcement agency.
(4) In accordance with procedures determined by the Department of Justice and the Department of Homeland Security, USCIS will refer certain applications for adjustment of status to the Department of Justice for determination of whether the applicant unreasonably refused to provide assistance in a criminal investigation or prosecution. If the applicant submits a document described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, USCIS will not refer the application for consideration by the Department of Justice absent extraordinary circumstances. In other cases, USCIS will only refer an application to the Department of Justice if an official or law enforcement agency has provided evidence that the alien has refused to comply with requests to provide assistance in an investigation or prosecution of persons in connection with the qualifying criminal activity or if there are other affirmative evidence in the record suggesting that the applicant may have unreasonably refused to provide such assistance. In these instances, USCIS will request that the Department of Justice determine, based on all available affirmative evidence, whether the applicant unreasonably refused to provide assistance in a criminal investigation or prosecution. The Department of Justice will have 90 days to provide a written determination to USCIS, or where appropriate, request an extension of time to provide such a determination. After such time, USCIS may adjudicate the application whether or not the Department of Justice has provided a response.
(f)
Decision.
The decision to approve or deny a Form I-485 filed under section 245(m) of the Act is a discretionary determination that lies solely within USCIS's jurisdiction. After completing its review of the application and evidence, USCIS will issue a written decision approving or denying Form I-485 and notify the applicant of this decision.
(1)
Approvals.
If USCIS determines that the applicant has met the requirements for adjustment of status and merits a favorable exercise of discretion, USCIS will approve the Form I-485. Upon approval of adjustment of status under this section, USCIS will record the alien's lawful admission for
permanent residence as of the date of such approval.
(2)
Denials.
Upon the denial of an application for adjustment of status under section 245(m) of the Act, the applicant will be notified in writing of the decision and the reason for the denial in accordance with 8 CFR part 103. If an applicant chooses to appeal the denial to the Administrative Appeals Office pursuant to the provisions of 8 CFR 103.3, the denial will not become final until the appeal is adjudicated.
(g)
Filing petitions for qualifying family members.
A principal U-1 applicant may file an immigrant petition under section 245(m)(3) of the Act on behalf of a qualifying family member as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, provided that:
(1) The qualifying family member has never held U nonimmigrant status;
(2) The qualifying family relationship, as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, exists at the time of the U-1 principal's adjustment and continues to exist through the adjudication of the adjustment or issuance of the immigrant visa for the qualifying family member;
(3) The qualifying family member or the principal U-1 alien, would suffer extreme hardship as described in 8 CFR 245.24(g) (to the extent the factors listed are applicable) if the qualifying family member is not allowed to remain in or enter the United States; and
(4) The principal U-1 alien has adjusted status to that of a lawful permanent resident, has a pending application for adjustment of status, or is concurrently filing an application for adjustment of status.
(h)
Procedures for filing petitions for qualifying family members
—(1)
Required documents.
For each qualifying family member who plans to seek an immigrant visa or adjustment of status under section 245(m)(3) of the Act, the U-1 principal applicant must submit, either concurrently with, or after he or she has filed, his or her Form I-485:
(i) Form I-929 in accordance with the form instructions;
(ii) The fee prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2 or an application for a fee waiver;
(iii) Evidence of the relationship listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, such as a birth or marriage certificate. If primary evidence is unavailable, secondary evidence or affidavits may be submitted in accordance with 8 CFR 103.2(b)(2);
(iv) Evidence establishing that either the qualifying family member or the U-1 principal alien would suffer extreme hardship if the qualifying family member is not allowed to remain in or join the principal in the United States. Extreme hardship is evaluated on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the particular facts and circumstances of each case. Applicants are encouraged to document all applicable factors in their applications, as the presence or absence of any one factor may not be determinative in evaluating extreme hardship. To establish extreme hardship to a qualifying family member who is physically present in the United States, an applicant must demonstrate that removal of the qualifying family member would result in a degree of hardship beyond that typically associated with removal. Factors that may be considered in evaluating whether removal would result in extreme hardship to the alien or to the alien's qualifying family member include, but are not limited to:
(A) The nature and extent of the physical or mental abuse suffered as a result of having been a victim of criminal activity;
(B) The impact of loss of access to the United States courts and criminal justice system, including but not limited to, participation in the criminal investigation or prosecution of the criminal activity of which the alien was a victim, and any civil proceedings related to family law, child custody, or other court proceeding stemming from the criminal activity;
(C) The likelihood that the perpetrator's family, friends, or others acting on behalf of the perpetrator in the home country would harm the applicant or the applicant's children;
(D) The applicant's needs for social, medical, mental health, or other supportive services for victims of crime that are unavailable or not reasonably accessible in the home country;
(E) Where the criminal activity involved arose in a domestic violence context, the existence of laws and social practices in the home country that
punish the applicant or the applicant's child(ren) because they have been victims of domestic violence or have taken steps to leave an abusive household;
(F) The perpetrator's ability to travel to the home country and the ability and willingness of authorities in the home country to protect the applicant or the applicant's children; and
(G) The age of the applicant, both at the time of entry to the United States and at the time of application for adjustment of status; and
(v) Evidence, including a signed statement from the qualifying family member and other supporting documentation, to establish that discretion should be exercised in his or her favor. Although qualifying family members are not required to establish that they are admissible on any of the grounds set forth in section 212(a) of the Act other than on section 212(a)(3)(E) of the Act, USCIS may take into account all factors, including acts that would otherwise render the applicant inadmissible, in making its discretionary decision on the application. Where adverse factors are present, an applicant may offset these by submitting supporting documentation establishing mitigating equities that the applicant wants USCIS to consider when determining whether or not a favorable exercise of discretion is appropriate. Depending on the nature of the adverse factors, the applicant may be required to clearly demonstrate that the denial of adjustment of status would result in exceptional and extremely unusual hardship. Moreover, depending on the gravity of the adverse factors, such a showing might still be insufficient. For example, USCIS will generally not exercise its discretion favorably in cases where the applicant has committed or been convicted of a serious violent crime, a crime involving sexual abuse committed upon a child, or multiple drug-related crimes, or where there are security- or terrorism-related concerns.
(2)
Decision.
The decision to approve or deny a Form I-929 is a discretionary determination that lies solely within USCIS's jurisdiction. The Form I-929 for a qualifying family member may not be approved, however, until such time as the principal U-1 applicant's application for adjustment of status has been approved. After completing its review of the application and evidence, USCIS will issue a written decision and notify the applicant of that decision in writing.
(i)
Approvals.
(A) For qualifying family members who are outside of the United States, if the Form I-929 is approved, USCIS will forward notice of the approval either to the Department of State's National Visa Center so the applicant can apply to the consular post for an immigrant visa, or to the appropriate port of entry for a visa exempt alien.
(B) For qualifying family members who are physically present in the United States, if the Form I-929 is approved, USCIS will forward notice of the approval to the U-1 principal applicant.
(ii)
Denials.
If the Form I-929 is denied, the applicant will be notified in writing of the reason(s) for the denial in accordance with 8 CFR part 103. If an applicant chooses to appeal the denial to the Administrative Appeals Office pursuant to 8 CFR 103.3, the denial will not become final until the appeal is adjudicated. Denial of the U-1 principal applicant's application will result in the automatic denial of a qualifying family member's Form I-929. There shall be no appeal of such an automatic denial.
(i)
Application procedures for qualifying family members who are physically present in the United States to request adjustment of status
—(1)
Required documents.
Qualifying family members in the United States may request adjustment of status by submitting:
(i) Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, in accordance with the form instructions;
(ii) An approved Form I-929, Petition for Qualifying Family Member of a U-1 Nonimmigrant;
(iii) The fee prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2 or an application for a fee waiver; and
(2)
Decision.
The decision to approve or deny Form I-485 is a discretionary determination that lies solely within USCIS's jurisdiction. After completing
its review of the application and evidence, USCIS will issue a written decision approving or denying Form I-485 and notify the applicant of this decision in writing.
(i)
Approvals.
Upon approval of a Form I-485 under this section, USCIS shall record the alien's lawful admission for permanent residence as of the date of such approval.
(ii)
Denial.
Upon the denial of any application for adjustment of status, the applicant will be notified in writing of the decision and the reason for the denial in accordance with 8 CFR part 103. If an applicant chooses to appeal the denial to the Administrative Appeals Office pursuant to the provisions of 8 CFR 103.3, the denial will not become final until the appeal is adjudicated. During the appeal period, the applicant may not obtain or renew employment authorization under 8 CFR 274a.12(c)(9). Denial of the U-1 principal applicant's application will result in the automatic denial of a qualifying family member's Form I-485; such an automatic denial is not appealable.
(j)
Effect of departure.
If an applicant for adjustment of status under this section departs the United States, he or she shall be deemed to have abandoned the application, and it will be denied. If, however, the applicant is not under exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings, and he or she filed a Form I-131, Application for Travel Document, in accordance with the instructions on the form, or any other appropriate form, and was granted advance parole by USCIS for such absences, and was inspected and paroled upon returning to the United States, he or she will not be deemed to have abandoned the application. If the adjustment of status application of such an individual is subsequently denied, he or she will be treated as an applicant for admission subject to sections 212 and 235 of the Act. If an applicant for adjustment of status under this section is under exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings, USCIS will deem the application for adjustment of status abandoned as of the moment of the applicant's departure from the United States.
(k)
Exclusive jurisdiction.
USCIS shall have exclusive jurisdiction over adjustment applications filed under section 245(m) of the Act.
(l)
Inapplicability of 8 CFR 245.1 and 245.2.
The provisions of 8 CFR 245.1 and 245.2 do not apply to aliens seeking adjustment of status under section 245(m) of the Act.
[73 FR 75560, Dec. 12, 2008; 74 FR 395, Jan. 6, 2009; 78 FR 18472, Mar. 27, 2013; 85 FR 46927, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 245.25
Adjustment of status of aliens with approved employment-based immigrant visa petitions; validity of petition and offer of employment.
(a)
Validity of petition for continued eligibility for adjustment of status.
An alien who has a pending application to adjust status to that of a lawful permanent resident based on an approved employment-based immigrant visa petition filed under section 204(a)(1)(F) of the Act on the applicant's behalf must have a valid offer of employment based on a valid petition at the time the application to adjust status is filed and at the time the alien's application to adjust status is adjudicated, and the applicant must intend to accept such offer of employment. Prior to a final administrative decision on an application to adjust status, USCIS may require that the applicant demonstrate, or the applicant may affirmatively demonstrate to USCIS, on Form I-485 Supplement J, with any supporting material and credible documentary evidence, in accordance with the form instructions that:
(1) The employment offer by the petitioning employer is continuing; or
(2) Under section 204(j) of the Act, the applicant has a new offer of employment from the petitioning employer or a different U.S. employer, or a new offer based on self-employment, in the same or a similar occupational classification as the employment offered under the qualifying petition, provided that:
(i) The alien's application to adjust status based on a qualifying petition has been pending for 180 days or more; and
(ii) The qualifying immigrant visa petition:
(A) Has already been approved; or
(B) Is pending when the beneficiary notifies USCIS of a new job offer 180
days or more after the date the alien's adjustment of status application was filed, and the petition is subsequently approved:
(
1
) Adjudication of the pending petition shall be without regard to the requirement in 8 CFR 204.5(g)(2) to continuously establish the ability to pay the proffered wage after filing and until the beneficiary obtains lawful permanent residence; and
(
2
) The pending petition will be approved if it was eligible for approval at the time of filing and until the alien's adjustment of status application has been pending for 180 days, unless approval of the qualifying immigrant visa petition at the time of adjudication is inconsistent with a requirement of the Act or another applicable statute; and
(iii) The approval of the qualifying petition has not been revoked.
(3) In all cases, the applicant and his or her intended employer must demonstrate the intention for the applicant to be employed under the continuing or new employment offer (including self-employment) described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, as applicable, within a reasonable period upon the applicant's grant of lawful permanent resident status.
(b)
Definition of same or similar occupational classification.
The term “same occupational classification” means an occupation that resembles in every relevant respect the occupation for which the underlying employment-based immigrant visa petition was approved. The term “similar occupational classification” means an occupation that shares essential qualities or has a marked resemblance or likeness with the occupation for which the underlying employment-based immigrant visa petition was approved.
[81 FR 82490, Nov. 18, 2016]
Pt. 245a

# PART 245a—ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS TO THAT OF PERSONS ADMITTED FOR TEMPORARY OR PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS UNDER SECTION 245A OF THE IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITY ACT

# Subpart A—Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (RICA) Legalization Provisions
Sec.
245a.1
Definitions.
245a.2
Application for temporary residence.
245a.3
Application for adjustment from temporary to permanent resident status.
245a.4
Adjustment to lawful resident status of certain nationals of countries for which extended voluntary departure has been made available.
245a.5
Temporary disqualification of certain newly legalized aliens from receiving benefits from programs of financial assistance furnished under federal law.
245a.6
Treatment of denied application under part 245a, Subpart B.

# Subpart B—Legal Immigration Family Equity (LIFE) Act Legalization Provisions
245a.10
Definitions.
245a.11
Eligibility to adjust to LPR status.
245a.12
Filing and applications.
245a.13
During pendency of application.
245a.14
Application for class membership in the
CSS, LULAC,
or
Zambrano
lawsuit.
245a.15
Continuous residence in an unlawful status since prior to January 1, 1982, through May 4, 1988.
245a.16
Continuous physical presence from November 6, 1986, through May 4, 1988.
245a.17
Citizenship skills.
245a.18
Ineligibility and applicability of grounds of inadmissibility.
245a.19
Interviews.
245a.20
Decisions, appeals, motions, and certifications.
245a.21
Confidentiality.
245a.22
Rescission.
245a.23-245a.29
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—LIFE Act Amendments Family Unity Provisions
245a.30
Description of program.
245a.31
Eligibility.
245a.32
Ineligible aliens.
245a.33
Filing.
245a.34
Protection from removal, eligibility for employment, and period of authorized stay.
245a.35
Travel outside the United States.
245a.36
[Reserved]
245a.37
Termination of Family Unity Program benefits.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1101, 1103, 1255a and 1255a note.

# Source:
52 FR 16208, May 1, 1987, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (IRCA) Legalization Provisions
§ 245a.1
Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(a)
Act
means the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended by The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.
(b)
Service
means the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS).
(c)(1)
Resided continuously
as used in section 245A(a)(2) of the Act, means that the alien shall be regarded as having resided continuously in the United States if, at the time of filing of the application for temporary resident status:
An alien who after appearing for a scheduled interview to obtain an immigrant visa at a Consulate or Embassy in Canada or Mexico but who subsequently is not issued an immigrant visa and who is paroled back into the United States, pursuant to the stateside criteria program, shall be regarded as having been granted advance parole by the Service.
(i) No single absence from the United States has exceeded forty-five (45) days, and the aggregate of all absences has not exceeded one hundred and eighty (180) days between January 1, 1982 through the date the application for temporary resident status is filed, unless the alien can establish that due to emergent reasons, his or her return to the United States could not be accomplished within the time period allowed;
(ii) The alien was maintaining residence in the United States; and
(iii) The alien's departure from the United States was not based on an order of deportation.
An alien who has been absent from the United States in accordance with the Service's advance parole procedures shall not be considered as having interrupted his or her continuous residence as required at the time of filing an application.
(2)
Continuous residence,
as used in section 245A(b)(1)(B) of the Act, means that the alien shall be regarded as having resided continuously in the United States if, at the time of applying for adjustment from temporary residence to permanent resident status: No single absence from the United States has exceeded thirty (30) days, and the aggregate of all absences has not exceeded ninety (90) days between the date of granting of lawful temporary resident status and of applying for permanent resident status, unless the alien can establish that due to emergent reasons the return to the United States could not be accomplished within the time period(s) allowed.
(d) In the term
alien's unlawful status was known to the government,
the term
government
means the Immigration and Naturalization Service. An alien's unlawful status was
known to the government
only if:
(1) The Service received factual information constituting a violation of the alien's nonimmigrant status from any agency, bureau or department, or subdivision thereof, of the Federal government, and such information was stored or otherwise recorded in the official Service alien file, whether or not the Service took follow-up action on the information received. In order to meet the standard of
information constituting a violation of the alien's nonimmigrant status,
the alien must have made a clear statement or declaration to the other federal agency, bureau or department that he or she was in violation of nonimmigrant status; or
(2) An affirmative determination was made by the Service prior to January 1, 1982 that the alien was subject to deportation proceedings. Evidence that may be presented by an alien to support an assertion that such a determination was made may include, but is not limited to, official Service documents issued prior to January 1, 1982,
i.e.
, Forms I-94 (see § 1.4), Arrival-Departure Records granting a period of time in which to depart the United States without imposition of proceedings; Forms I-210, Voluntary Departure Notice letter; and Forms I-221, Order to Show Cause and Notice of Hearing. Evidence from Service records that may be used to support a finding
that such a determination was made may include, but is not limited to, record copies of the aforementioned forms and other documents contained in alien files,
i.e.
, Forms I-213, Record of Deportable Alien;
Unexecuted Forms I-205, Warrant of Deportation; Forms I-265, Application for Order to Show Cause and Processing Sheet; Forms I-541, Order of Denial of Application for Extension of Stay granting a period of time in which to depart the United States without imposition of proceedings, or any other Service record reflecting that the alien's nonimmigrant status was considered by the Service to have terminated or the alien was otherwise determined to be subject to deportation proceedings prior to January 1, 1982, whether or not deportation proceedings were instituted; or
(3) A copy of a response by the Service to any other agency which advised that agency that a particular alien had no legal status in the United States or for whom no record could be found.
(4) The applicant produces documentation from a school approved to enroll foreign students under § 214.3 which establishes that the said school forwarded to the Service a report that clearly indicated the applicant had violated his or her nonimmigrant student status prior to January 1, 1982. A school may submit an affirmation that the school did forward to the Service the aforementioned report and that the school no longer has available copies of the actual documentation sent. In order to be eligible under this part, the applicant must not have been reinstated to nonimmigrant student status.
(e) The term
to make a determination
as used in § 245a.2(t)(3) of this part means obtaining and reviewing all information required to adjudicate an application for the benefit sought and making a decision thereon. If fraud, willful misrepresentation or concealment of a material fact, knowingly providing a false writing or document, knowingly making a false statement or representation, or any other activity prohibited by section 245A(c)(6) of the Act is established during the process of making the determination on the application, the Service shall refer to the United States Attorney for prosecution of the alien or of any person who created or supplied a false writing or document for use in an application for adjustment of status under this part.
(f) The term
continuous physical presence
as used in section 245A(a)(3)(A) of the Act means actual continuous presence in the United States since November 6, 1986 until filing of any application for adjustment of status. Aliens who were outside of the United States on the date of enactment or departed the United States after enactment may apply for legalization if they reentered prior to May 1, 1987, provided they meet the continuous residence requirements, and are otherwise eligible for legalization.
(g)
Brief, casual, and innocent
means a departure authorized by the Service (advance parole) subsequent to May 1, 1987 of not more than thirty (30) days for legitimate emergency or humanitarian purposes unless a further period of authorized departure has been granted in the discretion of the district director or a departure was beyond the alien's control.
(h) The term
brief and casual absences
as used in section 245a(b)(3)(A) of the Act permits temporary trips abroad as long as the alien establishes a continuing intention to adjust to lawful permanent resident status. However, such absences must comply with § 245a.3(b)(2) of this chapter in order for the alien to maintain continuous residence as specified in the Act.
(i)
Public cash assistance
means income or needs-based monetary assistance to include, but not limited to, supplemental security income received by the alien through federal, state, or local programs designed to meet subsistence levels. It does not include assistance in kind, such as food stamps, public housing, or other non-cash benefits, nor does it include work-related compensation or certain types of medical assistance (Medicare, Medicaid, emergency treatment, services to pregnant women or children under 18 years of age, or treatment in the interest of public health).
(j)
Legalization Office
means local offices of the Immigration and Naturalization Service which accept and process applications for Legalization or
Special Agricultural Worker status, under the authority of the INS district directors in whose districts such offices are located.
(k)
Regional Processing Facility
means Service offices established in each of the four Service regions to adjudicate, under the authority of the INS Directors of the Regional Processing Facilities, applications for adjustment of status under section 210, 245A(a) or 245A(b)(1) of the Act.
(l)
Designated entity
means any state, local, church, community, farm labor organization, voluntary organization, association of agricultural employers or individual determined by the Service to be qualified to assist aliens in the preparation of applications for Legalization status.
(m) The term
family unity
as used in section 245(d)(2)(B)(i) of the Act means maintaining the family group without deviation or change. The family group shall include the spouse, unmarried minor children under 18 years of age who are not members of some other household, and parents who reside regularly in the household of the family group.
(n) The term
prima facie
as used in section 245(e)(1) and (2) of the Act means eligibility is established if the applicant presents a completed I-687 and specific factual information which in the absence of rebuttal will establish a claim of eligibility under this part.
(o)
Misdemeanor
means a crime committed in the United States, either (1) punishable by imprisonment for a term of one year or less, regardless of the term such alien actually served, if any, or (2) a crime treated as a misdemeanor under 8 CFR 245a.1(p). For purposes of this definition, any crime punishable by imprisonment for a maximum term of five days or less shall not be considered a misdemeanor.
(p)
Felony
means a crime committed in the United States, punishable by imprisonment for a term of more than one year, regardless of the term such alien actually served, if any, except: When the offense is defined by the State as a misdemeanor and the sentence actually imposed is one year or less regardless of the term such alien actually served. Under this exception, for purposes of 8 CFR part 245a, the crime shall be treated as a misdemeanor.
(q)
Subject of an Order to Show Cause
means actual service of the Order to Show Cause upon the alien through the mail or by personal service.
(r)
A qualified designated entity in good-standing with the Service
means those designated entities whose cooperative agreements were not suspended or terminated by the Service or those whose agreements were not allowed to lapse by the Service prior to January 30, 1989 (the expiration date of the INS cooperative agreements for all designated entities), or those whose agreements were not terminated for cause by the Service subsequent to January 30, 1989.
Subsequent to January 30, 1989, and throughout the period ending on November 6, 1990, a QDE in good-standing may: (1) Serve as an authorized course provider under § 245a.3(b)(5)(i)(C) of this chapter; (2) Administer the IRCA Test for Permanent Residency (proficiency test), provided an agreement has been entered into with and authorization has been given by INS under § 245a.1(s)(5) of this chapter; and, (3) Certify as true and complete copies of original documents submitted in support of Form I-698 in the format prescribed in § 245a.3(d)(2) of this chapter.
(s)
Satisfactorily pursuing,
as used in section 245A(b)(1)(D)(i)(II) of the Act, means:
(1) An applicant for permanent resident status has attended a recognized program for at least 40 hours of a minimum 60-hour course as appropriate for his or her ability level, and is demonstrating progress according to the performance standards of the English/citizenship course prescribed by the recognized program in which he or she is enrolled (as long as enrollment occurred on or after May 1, 1987, course standards include attainment of particular functional skills related to communicative ability, subject matter knowledge, and English language competency, and attainment of these skills is measured either by successful completion of learning objectives appropriate to the applicant's ability level, or attainment of a determined score on a test or tests, or both of these); or
(2) An applicant presents a high school diploma or general educational development diploma (GED) from a school in the United States. A GED gained in a language other than English is acceptable only if a GED English proficiency test has been passed. (The curriculum for both the high school diploma and the GED must have included at least 40 hours of instruction in English and U.S. history and government); or
(3) An applicant has attended for a period of one academic year (or the equivalent thereof according to the standards of the learning institution), a state recognized, accredited learning institution in the United States and that institution certifies such attendance (as long as the curriculum included at least 40 hours of instruction in English and U.S. history and government); or
(4) An applicant has attended courses conducted by employers, social, community, or private groups certified (retroactively, if necessary, as long as enrollment occurred on or after May 1, 1987, and the curriculum included at least 40 hours of instruction in English and U.S. history and government) by the district director or the Director of the Outreach Program under § 245a.3(b)(5)(i)(D) of this chapter; or
(5) An applicant attests to having completed at least 40 hours of individual study in English and U.S. history and government and passes the proficiency test for legalization, called the IRCA Test for Permanent Residency, indicating that the applicant is able to read and understand minimal functional English within the context of the history and government of the United States. Such test may be given by INS, as well as, State Departments of Education (SDEs) (and their accredited educational agencies) and Qualified Designated Entities in good-standing (QDEs) upon agreement with and authorization by INS. Those SDEs and QDEs wishing to participate in this effort should write to the Director of the INS Outreach Program at 425 “I” Street, NW., Washington, DC 20536, for further information.
(t) Minimal understanding of ordinary English as used in section 245A(b)(1)(D)(i) of the Act means an applicant can satisfy basic survival needs and routine social demands. The person can handle jobs that involve following simple oral and very basic written communication.
(u)
Curriculum
means a defined course for an instructional program. Minimally, the curriculum prescribes what is to be taught, how the course is to be taught, with what materials, and when and where. The curriculum must:
(1) Teach words and phrases in ordinary, everyday usage;
(2) Include the content of the Federal Citizenship Text series as the basis for curriculum development (other texts with similar content may be used in addition to, but not in lieu of, the Federal Citizenship Text series);
(3) Be designed to provide at least 60 hours of instruction per class level;
(4) Be relevant and educationally appropriate for the program focus and the intended audience; and
(5) Be available for examination and review by INS as requested.
(v) The term
developmentally disabled
means the same as the term
developmental disability
defined in section 102(5) of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 1987, Public Law 100-146. As a convenience to the public, that definition is printed here in its entirety:
The term
developmental disability
means a severe, chronic disability of a person which:
(1) Is attributable to a mental or physical impairment or combination of mental and physical impairments;
(2) Is manifested before the person attains age twenty-two;
(3) Is likely to continue indefinitely;
(4) Results in substantial functional limitations in three or more of the following areas of major life activity: (i) Self-care, (ii) receptive and expressive language, (iii) learning, (iv) mobility, (v) self direction, (vi) capacity for independent living, and (vii) economic self-sufficiency; and
(5) Reflects the person's need for a combination and sequence of special, interdisciplinary, or generic care, treatment, or other services which are of lifelong or extended duration and are individually planned and coordinated.
[52 FR 16208, May 1, 1987, as amended at 52 FR 43845, Nov. 17, 1987; 53 FR 9863, Mar. 28, 1988; 53 FR 23382, June 22, 1988; 53 FR 43992, Oct. 31, 1988; 54 FR 29448, July 12, 1989; 56 FR 31061, July 9, 1991; 78 FR 18472, Mar. 27, 2013]
§ 245a.2
Application for temporary residence.
(a)
Application period for temporary residence.
(1) An alien who has resided unlawfully in the United States since January 1, 1982, who believes that he or she meets the eligibility requirements of section 245A of the Act must make application within the twelve month period beginning on May 5, 1987 and ending on May 4, 1988, except as provided in the following paragraphs.
(2)(i) [Reserved]
(ii) An alien who is the subject of an Order to Show Cause issued under section 242 of the Act during the period beginning on May 5, 1987 and ending on April 4, 1988 must file an application for adjustment of status to that of a temporary resident prior to the thirty-first day after the issuance of the Order to Show Cause.
(iii) An alien who is the subject of an Order to Show Cause issued under section 242 of the Act during the period beginning on April 5, 1988 and ending on May 4, 1988 must file an application for adjustment of status to that of a temporary resident not later than May 4, 1988.
(iv) An alien, described in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section, who fails to file an application for adjustment of status to that of a temporary resident under section 245A(a) of the Act during the respective time period(s), will be statutorily ineligible for such adjustment of status.
(b)
Eligibility.
The following categories of aliens, who are otherwise eligible to apply for legalization, may file for adjustment to temporary residence status:
(1) An alien (other than an alien who entered as a nonimmigrant) who establishes that he or she entered the United States prior to January 1, 1982, and who has thereafter resided continuously in the United States in an unlawful status, and who has been physically present in the United States from November 6, 1986, until the date of filing the application.
(2) An alien who establishes that he or she entered the United States as a nonimmigrant prior to January 1, 1982, and whose period of authorized admission expired through the passage of time prior to January 1, 1982, and who has thereafter resided continuously in the United States in an unlawful status, and who has been physically present in the United States from November 6, 1986, until the date of filing the application.
(3) An alien who establishes that he or she entered the United States as a nonimmigrant prior to January 1, 1982, and whose unlawful status was known to the Government as of January 1, 1982, and who has thereafter resided continuously in the United States in an unlawful status, and who has been physically present in the United States from November 6, 1986, until the date of filing the application.
(4) An alien described in paragraphs (b) (1) through (3) of this section who was at any time a nonimmigrant exchange visitor (as defined in section 101(a)(15)(J) of the Act), must establish that he or she was not subject to the two-year foreign residence requirements of section 212(e) or has fulfilled that requirement or has received a waiver of such requirements and has resided continuously in the United States in unlawful status since January 1, 1982.
(5) An alien who establishes that he or she was granted voluntary departure, voluntary return, extended voluntary departure or placed in deferred action category by the Service prior to January 1, 1982 and who has thereafter resided continuously in such status in the United States and who has been physically present in the United States from November 6, 1986 until the date of filing the application.
(6) An alien who establishes that he or she was paroled into the United States prior to January 1, 1982, and whose parole status terminated prior to January 1, 1982, and who has thereafter resided continuously in such status in the United States, and who has been physically present in the United States from November 6, 1986, until the date of filing the application.
(7) An alien who establishes that he or she is a Cuban or Haitian Entrant who was physically present in the United States prior to January 1, 1982, and who has thereafter resided continuously in the United States, and who has been physically present in the United States from November 6, 1986,
until the date of filing the application, without regard to whether such alien has applied for adjustment of status pursuant to section 202 of the Act.
(8) An alien's eligibility under the categories described in section 245(a)(2)(b) (1) through (7) and (9) through (15) shall not be affected by entries to the United States subsequent to January 1, 1982 that were not documented on Service Form I-94 (see § 1.4), Arrival-Departure Record.
(9) An alien who would be otherwise eligible for legalization and who was present in the United States in an unlawful status prior to January 1, 1982, and reentered the United States as a nonimmigrant, such entry being documented on Service Form I-94, Arrival-Departure Record, in order to return to an unrelinquished unlawful residence.
(10) An alien described in paragraph (b)(9) of this section must receive a waiver of the excludable charge 212(a)(19) as an alien who entered the United States by fraud.
(11) A nonimmigrant who entered the United States for duration of status (“D/S”) is one of the following classes, A, A-1, A-2, G, G-1, G-2, G-3 or G-4, whose qualifying employment terminated or who ceased to be recognized by the Department of State as being entitled to such classification prior to January 1, 1982, and who has thereafter continued to reside in the United States in an unlawful status. An alien who was a dependent family member and who may be otherwise eligible for legalization may be considered a member of this class of eligible aliens if the dependent family member was also in A and G status when the principal A or G alien's status terminated or ceased to be recognized by the Department of State.
(12) A nonimmigrant who entered the United States for duration of status (“D/S”) in one of the following classes, F, F-1, or F-2, who completed a full course of study, including practical training and whose time period if any to depart the United States after completion of study expired prior to January 1, 1982 and who has remained in the United States in an unlawful status since that time. A dependent F-2 alien otherwise eligible who was admitted into the United States with a specific time period, as opposed to duration of status, documented on Service Form I-94, Arrival-Departure Record that extended beyond January 1, 1982 is considered eligible if the principal F-1 alien is found eligible.
(13) An alien who establishes that he or she is a member of the class in the Silva-Levi lawsuit (No. 76-C-4268 (N.D. ILL. March 22, 1977)); that is, an alien from an independent country of the Western Hemisphere who was present in the United States prior to March 11, 1977, and was known by the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) to have a priority date for the issuance of an immigrant visa between July 1, 1968 and December 31, 1976, inclusive, and who was clearly eligible for an immigrant visa.
(14) An alien who filed an asylum application prior to January 1, 1982 and whose application was subsequently denied or whose application has not yet been decided is considered an alien in an unlawful status known to the government.
(15) An alien, otherwise eligible who departed the United States and was paroled into the United States on or before May 1, 1987 in order to return to an unrelinquished unlawful residence.
(c)
Ineligible aliens.
(1) An alien who has been convicted of a felony, or three or more misdemeanors.
(2) An alien who has assisted in the persecution of any person or persons on account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group or political opinion.
(3) An alien excludable under the provisions of section 212(a) of the Act whose grounds of excludability may not be waived, pursuant to section 245A(d)(2)(B)(ii) of this Act.
(4) An alien who at any time was a nonimmigrant exchange visitor who is subject to the two-year foreign residence requirement unless the requirement has been satisfied or waived pursuant to the provisions of section 212(e) of the Act who has resided continuously in the United States in an unlawful status since January 1, 1982.
(5) [Reserved]
(6) An alien who is the subject of an Order to Show Cause issued under section 242 of the Act during the period beginning on May 5, 1987 and ending on
April 4, 1988 who does not file an application for adjustment of status to that of temporary resident under section 245A(a) of the Act prior to the thirty-first day after issuance of the order.
(7) An alien who is the subject of an Order to Show Cause issued under section 242 of the Act during the period beginning on April 5, 1988 and ending on May 4, 1988 who does not file an application for adjustment of status to that of a temporary resident under section 245A(a) of the Act prior to May 5, 1988.
(8) An alien who was paroled into the United States prior to January 1, 1982 and whose parole status terminated or expired subsequent to January 1, 1982, except an alien who was granted advance parole.
(d)
Documentation.
Evidence to support an alien's eligibility for the legalization program shall include documents establishing proof of identity, proof of residence, and proof of financial responsibility, as well as photographs, a completed fingerprint card (Form FD-258), and a completed medical report of examination (Form I-693). All documentation submitted will be subject to Service verification. Applications submitted with unverifiable documentation may be denied. Failure by an applicant to authorize release to INS of information protected by the Privacy Act and/or related laws in order for INS to adjudicate a claim may result in denial of the benefit sought. Acceptable supporting documents for these three categories are discussed below.
(1)
Proof of identity.
Evidence to establish identity is listed below in descending order of preference:
(i) Passport;
(ii) Birth certificate;
(iii) Any national identity document from the alien's country of origin bearing photo and fingerprint (e.g., a “cedula” or “cartilla”);
(iv) Driver's license or similar document issued by a state if it contains a photo;
(v) Baptismal Record/Marriage Certificate; or
(vi) Affidavits.
(2)
Assumed names
—(i)
General.
In cases where an applicant claims to have met any of the eligibility criteria under an assumed name, the applicant has the burden of proving that the applicant was in fact the person who used that name. The applicant's true identity is established pursuant to the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section. The assumed name must appear in the documentation provided by the applicant to establish eligibility. To meet the requirements of this paragraph documentation must be submitted to prove the common identity,
i.e.
, that the assumed name was in fact used by the applicant.
(ii)
Proof of common identity.
The most persuasive evidence is a document issued in the assumed name which identifies the applicant by photograph, fingerprint or detailed physical description. Other evidence which will be considered are affidavit(s) by a person or persons other than the applicant, made under oath, which identify the affiant by name and address, state the affiant's relationship to the applicant and the basis of the affiant's knowledge of the applicant's use of the assumed name. Affidavits accompanied by a photograph which has been identified by the affiant as the individual known to affiant under the assumed name in question will carry greater weight.
(3)
Proof of residence.
Evidence to establish proof of continuous residence in the United States during the requisite period of time may consist of any combination of the following:
(i) Past employment records, which may consist of pay stubs, W-2 Forms, certification of the filing of Federal income tax returns on IRS Form 6166, state verification of the filing of state income tax returns, letters from employer(s) or, if the applicant has been in business for himself or herself, letters from banks and other firms with whom he or she has done business. In all of the above, the name of the alien and the name of the employer or other interested organization must appear on the form or letter, as well as relevant dates. Letters from employers should be on employer letterhead stationery, if the employer has such stationery, and must include:
(A) Alien's address at the time of employment;
(B) Exact period of employment;
(C) Periods of layoff;
(D) Duties with the company;
(E) Whether or not the information was taken from official company records; and
(F) Where records are located and whether the Service may have access to the records.
If the records are unavailable, an affidavit form-letter stating that the alien's employment records are unavailable and why such records are unavailable may be accepted in lieu of (3)(i)(E) and (3)(i)(F) of this paragraph. This affidavit form-letter shall be signed, attested to by the employer under penalty of perjury, and shall state the employer's willingness to come forward and give testimony if requested.
(ii) Utility bills (gas, electric, phone, etc.), receipts, or letters from companies showing the dates during which the applicant received service are acceptable documentation.
(iii) School records (letters, report cards, etc.) from the schools that the applicant or their children have attended in the United States must show name of school and periods of school attendance.
(iv) Hospital or medical records showing treatment or hospitalization of the applicant or his or her children must show the name of the medical facility or physician and the date(s) of the treatment or hospitalization.
(v) Attestations by churches, unions, or other organizations to the applicant's residence by letter which:
(A) Identifies applicant by name;
(B) Is signed by an official (whose title is shown);
(C) Shows inclusive dates of membership;
(D) States the address where applicant resided during membership period;
(E) Includes the seal of the organization impressed on the letter or the letterhead of the organization, if the organization has letterhead stationery;
(F) Establishes how the author knows the applicant; and
(G) Establishes the origin of the information being attested to.
(vi) Additional documents to support the applicant's claim may include:
(A) Money order receipts for money sent in or out of the country;
(B) Passport entries;
(C) Birth certificates of children born in the United States;
(D) Bank books with dated transactions;
(E) Letters or correspondence between applicant and another person or organization;
(F) Social Security card;
(G) Selective Service card;
(H) Automobile license receipts, title, vehicle registration, etc.;
(I) Deeds, mortgages, contracts to which applicant has been a party;
(J) Tax receipts;
(K) Insurance policies, receipts, or letters; and
(L) Any other relevant document.
(4)
Proof of financial responsibility.
An applicant for adjustment of status under this part is subject to the provisions of section 212(a)(15) of the Act relating to excludability of aliens likely to become public charges. Generally, the evidence of employment submitted under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section will serve to demonstrate the alien's financial responsibility during the documented period(s) of employment. If the alien's period(s) of residence in the United States include significant gaps in employment or if there is reason to believe that the alien may have received public assistance while employed, the alien may be required to provide proof that he or she has not received public cash assistance. An applicant for residence who is determined likely to become a public charge and is unable to overcome this determination after application of the special rule will be denied adjustment. The burden of proof to demonstrate the inapplicability of this provision of law lies with the applicant who may provide:
(i) Evidence of a history of employment (
i.e.
, employment letter, W-2 Forms, income tax returns, etc.);
(ii) Evidence that he/she is self-supporting (
i.e.
, bank statements, stocks, other assets, etc.); or
(iii) Form I-134, Affidavit of Support, completed by a spouse in behalf of the applicant and/or children of the applicant or a parent in behalf of children which guarantees complete or partial financial support. Acceptance of the affidavit of support shall be extended to other family members where family circumstances warrant.
(5)
Burden of proof.
An alien applying for adjustment of status under this part has the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that he or she has resided in the United States for the requisite periods, is admissible to the United States under the provisions of section 245a of the Act, and is otherwise eligible for adjustment of status under this section. The inference to be drawn from the documentation provided shall depend on the extent of the documentation, its credibility and amenability to verification as set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.
(6)
Evidence.
The sufficiency of all evidence produced by the applicant will be judged according to its probative value and credibility. To meet his or her burden of proof, an applicant must provide evidence of eligibility apart from his or her own testimony. In judging the probative value and credibility of the evidence submitted, greater weight will be given to the submission of original documentation.
(e)
Filing of application.
(1) The application must be filed on Form I-687 at an office of a designated entity or at a Service Legalization Office within the jurisdiction of the District wherein the applicant resides. If the application is filed with a designated entity, the alien must have consented to having the designated entity forward the application to the legalization office. In the case of applications filed at a legalization office, the district director may, at his or her discretion:
(i) Require the applicant to file the application in person; or
(ii) Require the applicant to file the application by mail; or
(iii) Permit the filing of applications either by mail or in person.
The applicant must appear for a personal interview at the legalization office as scheduled. If the applicant is 14 years of age or older, the application must be accompanied by a completed Form FD-258 (Applicant Card).
(2) At the time of the interview, wherever possible, original documents must be submitted except the following: Official government records; employment or employment-related records maintained by employers, unions, or collective bargaining organizations; medical records; school records maintained by a school or school board; or other records maintained by a party other than the applicant. Copies of records maintained by parties other than the applicant which are submitted in evidence must be certified as true and correct by such parties and must bear their seal or signature or the signature and title of persons authorized to act in their behalf. If at the time of the interview the return of original documents is desired by the applicant, they must be accompanied by notarized copies or copies certified true and correct by a qualified designated entity or by the alien's representative in the format prescribed in § 204.2(j)(1) or (2) of this chapter. At the discretion of the district director, original documents, even if accompanied by certified copies, may be temporarily retained for forensic examination by the Document Analysis Unit at the Regional Processing Facility having jurisdiction over the legalization office to which the documents were submitted.
(3) A separate application must be filed by each applicant with the fees required by 8 CFR 106.2.
(f)
Filing date of application.
The date the alien submits a completed application to a Service Legalization Office or designated entity shall be considered the filing date of the application, provided that in the case of an application filed at a designated entity the alien has consented to having the designated entity forward the application to the Service Legalization Office having jurisdiction over the location of the alien's residence. The designated entities are required to forward completed applications to the appropriate Service Legalization Office within sixty days of receipt.
(g)
Selective Service registration.
At the time of filing an application under this section, male applicants over the age of 17 and under the age of 26 are required to be registered under the Military Selective Service Act. An applicant shall present evidence that he has previously registered under that Act in the form of a letter of acknowledgement from the Selective Service System, or such alien shall present a completed and signed Form SSS-1 at the
time of filing Form I-687 with the Immigration and Naturalization Service or a designated entity. Form SSS-1 will be forwarded to the Selective Service System by the Service.
(h)
Continuous residence.
(1) For the purpose of this Act, an applicant for
temporary resident status
shall be regarded as having resided continuously in the United States if, at the time of filing of the application:
(i) No single absence from the United States has exceeded forty-five (45) days, and the aggregate of all absences has not exceeded one hundred and eighty (180) days between January 1, 1982 through the date the application for temporary resident status is filed, unless the alien can establish that due to emergent reasons, his or her return to the United States could not be accomplished within the time period allowed;
(ii) The alien was maintaining a residence in the United States; and
(iii) The alien's departure from the United States was not based on an order of deportation.
(2) An alien who has been absent from the United States in accordance with the Service's advance parole procedures shall not be considered as having interrupted his or her continuous residence as required at the time of filing an application under this section.
(i)
Medical examination.
An applicant under this part shall be required to submit to an examination by a designated civil surgeon at no expense to the government. The designated civil surgeon shall report on the findings of the mental and physical condition of the applicant and the determination of the alien's immunization status. Results of the medical examination must be presented to the Service at the time of interview and shall be incorporated into the record. Any applicant certified under paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of section 212(a) of the Act may appeal to a Board of Medical Officers of the U.S. Public Health Service as provided in section 234 of the Act and part 235 of this chapter.
(j)
Interview.
Each applicant, regardless of age, must appear at the appropriate Service Office and must be fingerprinted for the purpose of issuance of an employment authorization document and Form I-688. Each applicant shall be interviewed by an immigration officer, except that the interview may be waived for a child under 14, or when it is impractical because of the health or advanced age of the applicant.
(k)
Applicability of exclusion grounds
—(1)
Grounds of exclusion not to be applied.
The following paragraphs of section 212(a) of the Act shall not apply to applicants for temporary resident status: (14) Workers entering without Labor Certification; (20) immigrants not in possession of a valid entry document; (21) visas issued without compliance with section 203; (25) illiterates; and (32) graduates of non-accredited medical schools.
(2)
Waiver of grounds of exclusion.
Except as provided in paragraph (k)(3) of this section, the Attorney General may waive any other provision of section 212(a) of the Act only in the case of individual aliens for humanitarian purposes, to assure family unity, or when the granting of such a waiver is in the public interest. If an alien is excludable on grounds which may be waived as set forth in this paragraph, he or she shall be advised of the procedures for applying for a waiver of grounds of excludability on Form I-690. When an application for waiver of grounds of excludability is filed jointly with an application for temporary residence under this section, it shall be accepted for processing at the legalization office. If an application for waiver of grounds of excludability is submitted after the alien's preliminary interview at the legalization office, it shall be forwarded to the appropriate Regional Processing Facility. All applications for waivers of grounds of excludability must be accompanied by the correct fee in the exact amount. All fees for applications filed in the United States must be in the form of a money order, cashier's check, or bank check. No personal checks or currency will be accepted. Fees will not be waived or refunded under any circumstances. An application for waiver of grounds of excludability under this part shall be approved or denied by the director of the Regional Processing Facility in whose jurisdiction the applicant's application
for adjustment of status was filed except that in cases involving clear statutory ineligibility or admitted fraud, such application may be denied by the district director in whose jurisdiction the application is filed, and in cases returned to a Service Legalization Office for re-interview, such application may be approved at the discretion of the district director. The applicant shall be notified of the decision and, if the application is denied, of the reason therefor. Appeal from an adverse decision under this part may be taken by the applicant on Form I-694 within 30 days after the service of the notice only to the Service's Administrative Appeals Unit pursuant to the provisions of § 103.3(a) of this chapter.
(3)
Grounds of exclusion that may not be waived.
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Act, the following provisions of section 212(a) may not be waived by the Attorney General under paragraph (k)(2) of this section:
(i) Paragraphs (9) and (10) (criminals);
(ii) Paragraph (23) (narcotics) except for a single offense of simple possession of thirty grams or less of marijuana;
(iii) Paragraphs (27) (prejudicial to the public interest), (28) (communist), and (29) (subversive);
(iv) Paragraph (33) (participated in Nazi persecution).
(4)
Special rule for determination of public charge.
An alien who has a consistent employment history which shows the ability to support himself or herself even though his or her income may be below the poverty level, may be admissible. The alien's employment history need not be continuous in that it is uninterrupted. It should be continuous in the sense that the alien shall be regularly attached to the workforce, has an income over a substantial period of the applicable time, and has demonstrated the capacity to exist on his or her income without recourse to public cash assistance. This regulation is prospective in that the Service shall determine, based on the alien's history, whether he or she is likely to become a public charge. Past acceptance of public cash assistance within a history of consistent employment will enter into this decision. The weight given in considering applicability of the public charge provisions will depend on many factors, but the length of time an applicant has received public cash assistance will constitute a significant factor.
(5)
Public assistance and criminal history verification.
Declarations by an applicant that he or she has not been the recipient of public cash assistance and/or has not had a criminal record are subject to a verification of facts by the Service. The applicant must agree to fully cooperate in the verification process. Failure to assist the Service in verifying information necessary for the adjudication of the application may result in a denial of the application.
(l)
Continuous physical presence since November 6, 1986.
(1) An alien applying for adjustment to temporary resident status must establish that he or she has been continuously physically present in the United States since November 6, 1986. Aliens who were outside of the United States on the date of enactment or departed the United States after enactment may apply for legalization if they reentered prior to May 1, 1987, and meet the continuous residence requirements and are otherwise eligible for legalization.
(2) A brief, casual and innocent absence means a departure authorized by the Service (advance parole) subsequent to May 1, 1987 of not more than thirty (30) days for legitimate emergency or humanitarian purposes unless a further period of authorized departure has been granted in the discretion of the district director or a departure was beyond the alien's control.
(m)
Departure.
(1) During the time period from the date that an alien's application establishing prima facie eligibility for temporary resident status is reviewed at a Service Legalization Office and the date status as a temporary resident is granted, the alien applicant can only be readmitted to the United States provided his or her departure was authorized under the Service's advance parole provisions contained in § 212.5(f) of this chapter.
(2) An alien whose application for temporary resident status has been approved may be admitted to the United States upon return as a returning temporary resident provided he or she:
(i) Is not under deportation proceedings, such proceedings having been instituted subsequent to the approval of temporary resident status. A temporary resident alien will not be considered deported if that alien departs the United States while under an outstanding order of deportation issued prior to the approval of temporary resident status;
(ii) Has not been absent from the United States more than thirty (30) days on the date application for admission is made;
(iii) Has not been absent from the United States for an aggregate period of more than 90 days since the date the alien was granted lawful temporary resident status;
(iv) Presents Form I-688;
(v) Presents himself or herself for inspection; and
(vi) Is otherwise admissible.
(3) The periods of time in paragraph (m)(2)(ii) and (m)(2)(iii) of this section may be waived at the discretion of the Attorney General in cases where the absence from the United States was due merely to a brief temporary trip abroad due to emergent or extenuating circumstances beyond the alien's control.
(n)(1)
Employment and travel authorization; general.
Authorization for employment and travel abroad for temporary resident status applicants under section 245A(a) of the Act may only be granted by a Service Office. INS district directors will determine the Service location for the completion of processing of travel documentation. In the case of an application which has been filed with a designated entity, employment authorization may only be granted by the Service after the application has been properly received at the Service Office.
(2)
Employment authorization prior to the granting of temporary resident status.
(i) Permission to travel abroad and accept employment may be granted to the applicant after an interview has been conducted in connection with an application establishing prima facie eligibility for temporary resident status. Permission to travel abroad may be granted in emergent circumstances in accordance with the Service's advance parole provisions contained in § 212.5(f) of this chapter after an interview has been conducted in connection with an application establishing prima facie eligibility for temporary resident status.
(ii) If an interview appointment cannot be scheduled within 30 days from the date an application is filed at a Service office, authorization to accept employment will be granted, valid until the scheduled appointment date. Employment authorization, both prior and subsequent to an interview, will be restricted to increments of 1 year, pending final determination on the application for temporary resident status. If a final determination has not been made prior to the expiration date on the Employment Authorization Document (Form I-766, Form I-688A or Form I-688B), that date may be extended upon return of the employment authorization document by the applicant to the appropriate Service office.
(3)
Employment and travel authorization upon grant of temporary resident status.
Upon the granting of an application for adjustment to temporary resident status, the service center will forward a notice of approval to the applicant at his or her last known address and to his or her qualified designated entity or representative. The applicant may appear at any Service office and, upon surrender of the previously issued Employment Authorization Document, will be issued Form I-688, Temporary Resident Card, authorizing employment and travel abroad.
(4)
Revocation of employment authorization upon denial of temporary resident status.
Upon denial of an application for adjustment to temporary resident status the alien will be notified that if a timely appeal is not submitted, employment authorization shall be automatically revoked on the final day of the appeal period.
(o)
Decision.
The applicant shall be notified in writing of the decision, and, if the application is denied, of the reason therefor. An appeal from an adverse decision under this part may be taken by the applicant on Form I-694.
(p)
Appeal process.
An adverse decision under this part may be appealed to the Associate Commissioner, Examinations (Administrative Appeals Unit). Any appeal with the required fee shall
be filed with the Regional Processing Facility within thirty (30) days after service of the notice of denial in accordance with the procedures of § 103.3(a) of this chapter. An appeal received after the thirty (30) day period has tolled will not be accepted. The thirty (30) day period includes any time required for service or receipt by mail.
(q)
Motions.
The Regional Processing Facility director may
sua sponte
reopen and reconsider any adverse decision. When an appeal to the Associate Commissioner, Examinations (Administrative Appeals Unit) has been filed, the INS director of the Regional Processing Facility may issue a new decision that will grant the benefit which has been requested. The director's new decision must be served on the appealing party within 45 days of receipt of any briefs and/or new evidence, or upon expiration of the time allowed for the submission of any briefs. Motions to reopen a proceeding or reconsider a decision shall not be considered under this part.
(r)
Certifications.
The Regional Processing Facility director may, in accordance with § 103.4 of this chapter, certify a decision to the Associate Commissioner, Examinations (Administrative Appeals Unit) when the case involves an unusually complex or novel question of law or fact. The party affected shall be given notice of such certification and of the right to submit a brief within thirty (30) days from service of the notice.
(s)
Date of adjustment to temporary residence.
The status of an alien whose application for temporary resident status is approved shall be adjusted to that of a lawful temporary resident as of the date indicated on the application fee receipt issued at Service Legalization Office.
(t)
Limitation on access to information and confidentiality.
(1) No person other than a sworn officer or employee of the Justice Department or bureau of agency thereof, will be permitted to examine individual applications, except employees of designated entities where applications are filed with the same designated entity. For purposes of this part, any individual employed under contract by the Service to work in connection with the legalization program shall be considered an “employee of the Justice Department or bureau or agency thereof.”
(2) Files and records prepared by designated entities under this section are confidential. The Attorney General and the Service shall not have access to these files and records without the consent of the alien.
(3) No information furnished pursuant to an application for legalization under this section shall be used for any purpose except: (i) To make a determination on the application; or, (ii) for the enforcement of the provisions encompassed in section 245A(c)(6) of the Act, except as provided in paragraph (t)(4) of this section.
(4) If a determination is made by the Service that the alien has, in connection with his or her application, engaged in fraud or willful misrepresentation or concealment of a material fact, knowingly provided a false writing or document in making his or her application, knowingly made a false statement or representation, or engaged in any other activity prohibited by section 245A(c)(6) of the Act, the Service shall refer the matter to the United States Attorney for prosecution of the alien or of any person who created or supplied a false writing or document for use in an application for adjustment of status under this part.
(5) Information obtained in a granted legalization application and contained in the applicant's file is subject to subsequent review in reference to future benefits applied for (including petitions for naturalization and permanent resident status for relatives).
(u)
Termination of temporary resident status
—(1)
Termination of temporary resident status; General.
The status of an alien lawfully admitted for temporary residence under section 245A(a)(1) of the Act may be terminated at any time in accordance with section 245A(b)(2) of the Act. It is not necessary that a final order of deportation be entered in order to terminate temporary resident status. The temporary resident status may be terminated upon the occurrence of any of the following:
(i) It is determined that the alien was ineligible for temporary residence under section 245A of this Act;
(ii) The alien commits an act which renders him or her inadmissible as an immigrant, unless a waiver is secured pursuant to § 245a.2(k)(2).
(iii) The alien is convicted of any felony, or three or more misdemeanors;
(iv) The alien fails to file for adjustment of status from temporary resident to permanent resident on Form I-698 within forty-three (43) months of the date he/she was granted status as a temporary resident under § 245a.1 of this part.
(2)
Procedure
—(i)
Termination by the Service.
Except as provided in paragraph (u)(2)(ii) of this section, termination of an alien's temporary resident status under paragraph (u)(1) of this section will be made before instituting deportation proceedings against a temporary resident alien and only on notice sent to the alien by certified mail directed to his or her last known address, and to his or her representative, if any. The alien must be given an opportunity to offer evidence in opposition to the grounds alleged for termination of his or her status. Evidence in opposition must be submitted within thirty (30) days after the service of the Notice of Intent to Terminate. If the alien's status is terminated, the director of the regional processing facility shall notify the alien of the decision and the reasons for the termination, and further notify the alien that any Service Form I-94, Arrival-Departure Record or other official Service document issued to the alien authorizing employment and/or travel abroad, or any Form I-688, Temporary Resident Card previously issued to the alien will be declared void by the director of the regional processing facility within thirty (30) days if no appeal of the termination decision is filed within that period. The alien may appeal the decision to the Associate Commissioner, Examinations (Administrative Appeals Unit). Any appeal with the required fee shall be filed with the regional processing facility within thirty (30) days after the service of the notice of termination. If no appeal is filed within that period, the I-94, I-688 or other official Service document shall be deemed void, and must be surrendered without delay to an immigration officer or to the issuing office of the Service.
(ii)
Termination upon entry of final order of deportation or exclusion.
(A) The Service may institute deportation or exclusion proceedings against a temporary resident alien without regard to the procedures set forth in paragraph (u)(2)(i) of this section:
(
1
) If the ground for deportation arises under section 241(a)(2)(A)(iii) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1251(a)(2)(A)(iii));
(
2
) If the ground for deportation arises after the acquisition of temporary resident status, and the basis of such ground of deportation is not waivable pursuant to section 245A(d)(2)(B)(ii) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1255a(d)(2)(B)(ii)); or
(
3
) If the ground for exclusion arises after the acquisition of temporary resident status and is not waivable pursuant to section 245A(d)(2)(B)(ii) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1255a(d)(2)(B)(ii)).
(B) In such cases, the entry of a final order of deportation or exclusion will automatically terminate an alien's temporary resident status acquired under section 245A(a)(1) of the Act.
(3)
Termination not construed as rescission under section 246.
For the purposes of this part the phrase
termination of status
of an alien granted lawful temporary residence under section 245A(a) of the Act shall not be construed to necessitate a rescission of status as described in section 246 of the Act, and the proceedings required by the regulations issued thereunder shall not apply.
(4)
Return to unlawful status after termination.
Termination of the status of any alien previously adjusted to lawful temporary residence under section 245A(a) of the Act shall act to return such alien to the unlawful status held prior to the adjustment, and render him or her amenable to exclusion or deportation proceedings under section 236 or 242 of the Act, as appropriate.
(v)
Ineligibility for immigration benefits.
An alien whose status is adjusted to that of a lawful temporary resident under section 245A of the Act is not entitled to submit a petition pursuant to section 203(a)(2) or to any other benefit or consideration accorded under the Act to aliens lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
(w)
Declaration of Intending Citizen.
An alien who has been granted the status of temporary resident under section 245A(a)(1) of this Act may assert a claim of discrimination on the basis of citizenship status under section 274B of the Act only if he or she has previously filed Form I-772 (Declaration of Intending Citizen) after being granted such status. The Declaration of Intending Citizen is not required as a basis for filing a petition for naturalization; nor shall it be regarded as a right to United States citizenship; nor shall it be regarded as evidence of a person's status as a resident.
[52 FR 16208, May 1, 1987, as amended at 52 FR 43845, 43846, Nov. 17, 1987; 53 FR 23382, June 22, 1988; 54 FR 29449, July 12, 1989; 56 FR 31061, July 9, 1991; 58 FR 45236, Aug. 27, 1993; 60 FR 21040, May 1, 1995; 60 FR 21975, May 4, 1995; 61 FR 46536, Sept. 4, 1996; 65 FR 82256, Dec. 28, 2000; 78 FR 18472, Mar. 27, 2013; 85 FR 46927, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 245a.3
Application for adjustment from temporary to permanent resident status.
(a)
Application period for permanent residence.
(1) An alien may submit an application for lawful permanent resident status, with fee, immediately subsequent to the granting of lawful temporary resident status. Any application received prior to the alien's becoming eligible for adjustment to permanent resident status will be administratively processed and held by the INS, but will not be considered filed until the beginning of the nineteenth month after the date the alien was granted temporary resident status as defined in § 245a.2(s) of this chapter.
(2) No application shall be denied for failure to timely apply before the end of 43 months from the date of actual approval of the temporary resident application.
(3) The Service Center Director shall sua sponte reopen and reconsider without fee any application which was previously denied for late filing. No additional fee will be required for those applications which are filed during the twelve month extension period but prior to July 9, 1991.
(b)
Eligibility.
Any alien who has been lawfully admitted for temporary resident status under section 245A(a) of the Act, such status not having been terminated, may apply for adjustment of status of that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence if the alien:
(1) Applies for such adjustment anytime subsequent to the granting of temporary resident status but on or before the end of 43 months from the date of actual approval of the temporary resident application. The alien need not be physically present in the United States at the time of application; however, the alien must establish continuous residence in the United States in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section and must be physically present in the United States at the time of interview and/or processing for permanent resident status (ADIT processing);
(2) Establishes continuous residence in the United States since the date the alien was granted such temporary residence status. An alien shall be regarded as having resided continuously in the United States for the purpose of this part if, at the time of applying for adjustment from temporary to permanent resident status, or as of the date of eligibility for permanent residence, whichever is later, no single absence from the United States has exceeded thirty (30) days, and the aggregate of all absences has not exceeded ninety (90) days between the date of approval of the temporary resident application, Form I-687 (not the “roll-back” date) and the date the alien applied or became eligible for permanent resident status, whichever is later, unless the alien can establish that due to emergent reasons or circumstances beyond his or her control, the return to the United States could not be accomplished within the time period(s) allowed. A single absence from the United States of more than 30 days, and aggregate absences of more than 90 days during the period for which continuous residence is required for adjustment to permanent residence, shall break the continuity of such residence, unless the temporary resident can establish to the satisfaction of the district director or the Director of the Regional Processing Facility that he or she did not, in fact, abandon his or her residence in the United States during such period;
(3) Is admissible to the United States as an immigrant, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (g) of this section; and has not been convicted of any felony, or three or more misdemeanors; and
(4)(i)(A) Can demonstrate that the alien meets the requirements of section 312 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended (relating to minimal understanding of ordinary English and a knowledge and understanding of the history and government of the United States); or
(B) Is satisfactorily pursuing a course of study recognized by the Attorney General to achieve such an understanding of English and such a knowledge and understanding of the history and government of the United States.
(ii) The requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section must be met by each applicant. However, these requirements shall be waived without formal application for persons who, as of the date of application or the date of eligibility for permanent residence under this part, whichever date is later, are:
(A) Under 16 years of age; or
(B) 65 years of age or older; or
(C) Over 50 years of age who have resided in the United States for at least 20 years and submit evidence establishing the 20-year qualification requirement. Such evidence must be submitted pursuant to the requirements contained in Section 245a.2(d)(3) of this chapter; or
(D) Developmentally disabled as defined at § 245a.1(v) of this chapter. Such persons must submit medical evidence concerning their developmental disability; or
(E) Physically unable to comply. The physical disability must be of a nature which renders the applicant unable to acquire the four language skills of speaking, understanding, reading, and writing English in accordance with the criteria and precedence established in OI 312.1(a)(2)(iii) (Interpretations). Such persons must submit medical evidence concerning their physical disability.
(iii)(A) Literacy and basic citizenship skills may be demonstrated for purposes of complying with paragraph (b)(4)(i)(A) of this section by:
(
1
) Speaking and understanding English during the course of the interview for permanent resident status. An applicant's ability to read and write English shall be tested by excerpts from one or more parts of the Federal Textbooks on Citizenship at the elementary literacy level. The test of an applicant's knowledge and understanding of the history and form of government of the United States shall be given in the English language. The scope of the testing shall be limited to subject matter covered in the revised (1987) Federal Textbooks on Citizenship or other approved training material. The test questions shall be selected from a list of 100 standardized questions developed by the Service. In choosing the subject matter and in phrasing questions, due consideration shall be given to the extent of the applicant's education, background, age, length of residence in the United States, opportunities available and efforts made to acquire the requisite knowledge, and any other elements or factors relevant to an appraisal of the adequacy of his or her knowledge and understanding; or
(
2
) By passing a standardized section 312 test (effective retroactively as of November 7, 1988) such test being given in the English language by the Legalization Assistance Board with the Educational Testing Service (ETS) or the California State Department of Education with the Comprehensive Adult Student Assessment System (CASAS). The scope of the test is based on the 1987 edition of the Federal Textbooks on Citizenship series written at the elementary literacy level. An applicant may evidence passing of the standardized section 312 test by submitting the approved testing organization's standard notice of passing test results at the time of filing Form I-698, subsequent to filing the application but prior to the interview, or at the time of the interview. The test results may be independently verified by INS, if necessary.
(B) An applicant who fails to pass the English literacy and/or the U.S. history and government tests at the time of the interview, shall be afforded a second opportunity after six (6) months (or earlier, at the request of the applicant) to pass the tests, submit evidence
of passing an INS approved section 312 standardized examination or submit evidence of fulfillment of any one of the “satisfactorily pursuing” alternatives listed at § 245a.1(s) of this chapter. The second interview shall be conducted prior to the denial of the application for permanent residence and may be based solely on the failure to pass the basic citizenship skills requirements. An applicant whose period of eligibility expires prior to the end of the six-month re-test period, shall still be accorded the entire six months within which to be re-tested.
(iv) To satisfy the English language and basic citizenship skills requirements under the “satisfactorily pursuing” standard as defined at § 245a.1(s) of this chapter the applicant must submit evidence of such satisfactory pursuit in the form of a “Certificate of Satisfactory Pursuit” (Form I-699) issued by the designated school or program official attesting to the applicant's satisfactory pursuit of the course of study as defined at § 245a.1(s)(1) and (4) of this chapter; or a high school diploma or general educational development diploma (GED) under § 245a.1(s)(2) of this chapter; or certification on letterhead stationery from a state recognized, accredited learning institution under § 245a.1(s)(3) of this chapter; or evidence of having passed the IRCA Test for Permanent Residency under § 245a.1(s)(5) of this chapter. Such applicants shall not then be required to demonstrate that they meet the requirements of § 245a.3(b)(4)(i)(A) of this chapter in order to be granted lawful permanent residence provided they are otherwise eligible. Evidence of “Satisfactory Pursuit” may be submitted at the time of filing Form I-698, subsequent to filing the application but prior to the interview, or at the time of the interview (the applicant's name and A90M number must appear on any such evidence submitted). An applicant need not necessarily be enrolled in a recognized course of study at the time of application for permanent residency.
(v) Enrollment in a recognized course of study as defined in § 245a.3(b)(5) and issuance of a “Certificate of Satisfactory Pursuit” must occur subsequent to May 1, 1987.
(5) A course of study in the English language and in the history and government of the United States shall satisfy the requirement of paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section if the course materials for such instruction include textbooks published under the authority of section 346 of the Act, and it is
(i) Sponsored or conducted by: (A) An established public or private institution of learning recognized as such by a qualified state certifying agency; (B) An institution of learning approved to issue Forms I-20 in accordance with § 214.3 of this chapter; (C) A qualified designated entity within the meaning of section 245A(c)(2) of the Act, in good-standing with the Service; or (D) Is certified by the district director in whose jurisdiction the program is conducted, or is certified by the Director of the Outreach Program nationally.
(ii) A program seeking certification as a course of study recognized by the Attorney General under paragraph (b)(5)(i)(D) of this section shall file Form I-803, Petition for Attorney General Recognition to Provide Course of Study for Legalization: Phase II, with the Director of Outreach for national level programs or with the district director having jurisdiction over the area in which the school or program is located. In the case of local programs, a separate petition must be filed with each district director when a parent organization has schools or programs in more than one INS district. A petition must identify by name and address those schools or programs included in the petition. No fee shall be required to file Form I-803;
(A) The Director of Outreach and the district directors may approve a petition where they have determined that (
1
) a need exists for a course of study in addition to those already certified under § 245a.3(b)(5)(i) (A), (B), or (C); and/or (
2
) of this chapter the petitioner has historically provided educational services in English and U.S. history and government but is not already certified under § 245a.3(b)(5)(i)(A), (B), or (C); and (
3
) of this chapter the petitioner is otherwise qualified to provide such course of study;
(B) Upon approval of the petition the Director of Outreach and district directors shall issue a Certificate of Attorney General Recognition on Form I-804 to the petitioner. If the petition is denied, the petitioner shall be notified in writing of the decision therefor. No appeal shall lie from a denial of Form I-803, except that in such case where the petitions of a local, cross-district program are approved in one district and denied in another within the same State, the petitioner may request review of the denied petition by the appropriate Regional Commissioner. The Regional Commissioner shall then make a determination in this case;
(C) Each district director shall compile and maintain lists of programs approved under paragraph (b)(5)(i)(D) of this section within his or her jurisdiction. The Director of Outreach shall compile and maintain lists of approved national level programs.
(6)
Notice of participation.
All courses of study recognized under § 245a.3(b)(5)(i)(A) through (C) of this chapter which are already conducting or will conduct English and U.S. history and government courses for temporary residents must submit a Notice of Participation to the district director in whose jurisdiction the program is conducted. Acceptance of “Certificates of Satisfactory Pursuit” (Form I-699) shall be delayed until such time as the course provider submits the Notice of Participation, which notice shall be in the form of a letter typed on the letterhead of the course provider (if available) and include the following:
(i) The name(s) of the school(s)/program(s).
(ii) The complete addresses and telephone numbers of sites where courses will be offered, and class schedules.
(iii) The complete names of persons who are in charge of conducting English and U.S. history and government courses of study.
(iv) A statement that the course of study will issue “Certificates of Satisfactory Pursuit” to temporary resident enrollees according to INS regulations.
(v) A list of designated officials of the recognized course of study authorized to sign “Certificates of Satisfactory Pursuit”, and samples of their original signatures.
(vi) A statement that if a course provider charges a fee to temporary resident enrollees, the fee will not be excessive.
(vii) Evidence of recognition under 8 CFR 245a.3(b)(5)(i)(A), (B), or (C) (e.g., certification from a qualified state certifying agency; evidence of INS approval for attendance by nonimmigrant students, such as the school code number, or the INS identification number from the QDE cooperative agreement).
The course provider shall notify the district director, in writing, of any changes to the information contained in the Notice of Participation subsequent to its submission within ten (10) days of such change.
A Certificate of Attorney General Recognition to Provide Course of Study for Legalization (Phase II), Form I-804, shall be issued to course providers who have submitted a Notice of Participation in accordance with the provisions of this section by the district director. A Notice of Participation deficient in any way shall be returned to the course provider to correct the deficiency. Upon the satisfaction of the district director that the deficiency has been corrected, the course provider shall be issued Form I-804. Each district director shall compile and maintain lists of recognized courses within his or her district.
(7)
Fee structure.
No maximum fee standard will be imposed by the Attorney General. However, if it is believed that a fee charged is excessive, this factor alone will justify non-certification of the course provider by INS as provided in § 245a.3(b)(10) and/or (12) of this section. Once fees are established, any change in fee without prior approval of the district director or the Director of Outreach may justify de-certification. In determining whether or not a fee is excessive, district directors and the Director of Outreach shall consider such factors as the means of instruction, class size, prevailing wages of instructors in the area of the program, and additional costs such as rent, materials, utilities, insurance, and taxes. District directors and the Director of Outreach may also seek the assistance of various Federal, State and local entities as the need arises (e.g., State Departments of
Education) to determine the appropriateness of course fees.
(8) The Citizenship textbooks to be used by applicants for lawful permanent residence under section 245A of the Act shall be distributed by the Service to appropriate representatives of public schools. These textbooks may otherwise be purchased from the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402, and are also available at certain public institutions.
(9)
Maintenance of Student Records.
Course providers conducting courses of study recognized under § 245a.3(b)(5) of this chapter shall maintain for each student, for a period of three years from the student's enrollment, the following information and documents:
(i) Name (as copied exactly from the I-688A or I-688);
(ii) A-number (90 million series);
(iii) Date of enrollment;
(iv) Attendance records;
(v) Assessment records;
(vi) Photocopy of signed “Certificate of Satisfactory Pursuit” issued to the student.
(10)
Issuance of “Certificate of Satisfactory Pursuit” (I-699).
(i) Each recognized course of study shall prepare a standardized certificate that is signed by the designated official. The Certificate shall be issued to an applicant who has attended a recognized course of study for at least 40 hours of a minimum of 60-hour course as appropriate for his or her ability level, and is demonstrating progress according to the performance standards of the English and U.S. history and government course prescribed. Such standards shall conform with the provisions of § 245a.1(s) of this chapter.
(ii) The district director shall reject a certificate if it is determined that the certificate is fraudulent or was fraudulently issued.
(iii) The district director shall reject a Certificate if it is determined that the course provider is not complying with INS regulations. In the case of non-compliance, the district director will advise the course provider in writing of the specific deficiencies and give the provider thirty (30) days within which to correct such deficiencies.
(iv) District directors will accept Certificates from course providers once it is determined that the deficiencies have been satisfactorily corrected.
(v) Course providers which engage in fraudulent activities or fail to conform with INS regulations will be removed from the list of INS approved programs. INS will not accept Certificates from these providers.
(vi) Certificates may be accepted if a program is cited for deficiencies or decertified at a later date and no fraud was involved.
(vii) Certificates shall not be accepted from a course provider that has been decertified unless the alien enrolled in and had been issued a certificate prior to the decertification, provided that no fraud was involved.
(viii) The appropriate State agency responsible for SLIAG funding shall be notified of all decertifications by the district director.
(11)
Designated official.
(i) The designated official is the authorized person from each recognized course of study whose signature appears on all “Certificates of Satisfactory Pursuit” issued by that course;
(ii) The designated official must be a regularly employed member of the school administration whose office is located at the school and whose compensation does not come from commissions for recruitment of foreign students;
(iii)(A) The head of the school system or school, the director of the Qualified Designated Entity, the head of a program approved by the Attorney General, or the president or owner of other institutions recognized by the Attorney General must specify a
designated official.
Such designated official may not delegate this designation to any other person. Each school or institution may have up to three (3) designated officials at any one time. In a multi-campus institution, each campus may have up to three (3) designated officials at any one time;
(B) Each designated official shall have read and otherwise be familiar with the “Requirements and Guidelines for Courses of Study Recognized by the Attorney General”. The signature of a designated official shall affirm the official's compliance with INS regulations;
(C) The name, title, and sample signature of each designated official for
each recognized course of study shall be on file with the district director in whose jurisdiction the program is conducted.
(12)
Monitoring by INS.
(i) INS Outreach personnel in conjunction with the district director shall monitor the course providers in each district in order to:
(A) Assure that the program is a course of study recognized by the Attorney General under the provisions of § 245a.3(b)(5).
(B) Verify the existence of curriculum as defined in § 245a.1(u) on file for each level of instruction provided in English language and U.S. history and government classes.
(C) Assure that “Certificates of Satisfactory Pursuit” are being issued in accordance with § 245a.3(b)(10).
(D) Assure that records are maintained on each temporary resident enrollee in accordance with § 245a.3(b)(9).
(E) Assure that fees (if any) assessed by the course provider are in compliance in accordance with § 245a.3(b)(7).
(ii) If INS has reason to believe that the service is not being provided to the applicant, INS will issue a 24-hour minimum notice to the service provider before any site visit is conducted.
(iii) If it is determined that a course provider is not performing according to the standards established in either § 245a.3(b)(10) or (12) of this chapter, the district director shall institute decertification proceedings. Notice of Intent to Decertify shall be provided to the course provider. The course provider has 30 days within which to correct performance according to standards established. If after the 30 days, the district director is not satisfied that the basis for decertification has been overcome, the course provider will be decertified. The appropriate State agency shall be notified in accordance with § 245a.3(b)(10)(viii) of this chapter. A copy of the notice of decertification shall be sent to the State agency.
(13) Courses of study recognized by the Attorney General as defined at § 245a.3(b)(5) of this chapter shall provide certain standards for the selection of teachers. Since some programs may be in locations where selection of qualified staff is limited, or where budget constraints restrict options, the following list of qualities for teacher selection is provided as guidance. Teacher selections should include as many of the following qualities as possible:
(i) Specific training in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL);
(ii) Experience as a classroom teacher with adults;
(iii) Cultural sensitivity and openness;
(iv) Familiarity with competency-based education;
(v) Knowledge of curriculum and materials adaptation;
(vi) Knowledge of a second language.
(c)
Ineligible aliens.
(1) An alien who has been convicted of a felony, or three or more misdemeanors in the United States.
(2) An alien who is inadmissible to the United States as an immigrant, except as provided in § 245a.3(g)(1).
(3) An alien who was previously granted temporary resident status pursuant to section 245A(a) of the Act who has not filed an application for permanent resident status under section 245A(b)(1) of the Act by the end of 43 months from the date of actual approval of the temporary resident application.
(4) An alien who was not previously granted temporary resident status under section 245A(a) of the Act.
(5) An alien whose temporary resident status has been terminated under § 245a.2(u) of this chapter
(d)
Filing the application.
The provisions of part 211 of this chapter relating to the documentary requirements for immigrants shall not apply to an applicant under this part.
(1) The application must be filed on Form I-698. Form I-698 must be accompanied by the correct fee and documents specified in the instructions. The application will be mailed to the director having jurisdiction over the applicant's place of residence.
(2)
Certification of documents.
The submission of original documents is not required at the time of filing Form I-698. A copy of a document submitted in support of Form I-698 filed pursuant to section 245A(b) of the Act and this part
may be accepted, though unaccompanied by the original, if the copy is certified as true and complete by
(i) An attorney in the format prescribed in § 204.2(j)(1) of this chapter; or
(ii) An alien's representative in the format prescribed in § 204.2(j)(2) of this chapter; or
(iii) A qualified designated entity (QDE) in good standing as defined in § 245a.1(r) of this chapter, if the copy bears a certification by the QDE in good-standing, typed or rubber-stamped in the following language:
I certify that I have compared this copy with its original and it is a true and complete copy.
Signed:
Date:
Name:
QDE in good-standing representative
Name of QDE in good-standing:
Address of QDE in good-standing:
INS-QDE Cooperative Agreement Number:
(iv)
Authentication.
Certification of documents must be authenticated by an original signature. A facsimile signature on a rubber stamp will not be acceptable.
(v)
Original documents.
Original documents must be presented when requested by the Service. Official government records, employment or employment-related records maintained by employers, unions, or collective bargaining organizations, medical records, school records maintained by a school or school board or other records maintained by a party other than the applicant which are submitted in evidence must be certified as true and complete by such parties and must bear their seal or signature or the signature and title of persons authorized to act in their behalf. At the discretion of the district director and/or the Regional Processing Facility director, original documents may be kept for forensic examination.
(3) A separate application must be filed by each applicant with the fees required by 8 CFR 106.2.
(4) Applicants who filed for temporary resident status prior to December 1, 1987, are required to submit the results of a serologic test for HIV virus on Form I-693, “Medical Examination of Aliens Seeking Adjustment of Status”, completed by a designated civil surgeon, unless the serologic test for HIV was performed and the results were submitted on Form I-693 when the applicant filed for temporary resident status. Applicants who did submit an I-693 reflecting a serologic test for HIV was performed prior to December 1, 1987, must submit evidence of this fact when filing the I-698 application in order to be relieved from the requirement of submitting another I-693. If such evidence is not available, applicants may note on their I-698 application their prior submission of the results of the serologic test for HIV. This information shall then be verified at the Regional Processing Facility. Applicants having to submit an I-693 pursuant to this section are not required to have a complete medical examination. All HIV-positive applicants shall be advised that a waiver of the ground of excludability under section 212(a)(6) of the Act is available and shall be provided the opportunity to apply for the waiver. To be eligible for the waiver, the applicant must establish that:
(i) The danger to the public health of the United States created by the alien's admission to the United States is minimal,
(ii) The possibility of the spread of the infection created by the alien's admission to the United States is minimal, and
(iii) There will be no cost incurred by any government agency without prior consent of that agency. Provided these criteria are met, the waiver may be granted only for humanitarian purposes, to assure family unity, or when the granting of such a waiver is in the public interest in accordance with § 245a.3(g)(2) of this chapter.
(5) If necessary, the validity of an alien's temporary resident card (I-688) will be extended in increments of one (1) year until such time as the decision on an alien's properly filed application for permanent residence becomes final.
(6) An application lacking the proper fee or incomplete in any way shall be returned to the applicant with request for the proper fee, correction, additional information, and/or documentation. Once an application has been accepted by the Service and additional information and/or documentation is required, the applicant shall be sent a
notice to submit such information and/or documentation. In such case the application Form I-698 shall be retained at the RPF. If a response to this request is not received within 60 days, a second request for correction, additional information, and/or documentation shall be made. If the second request is not complied with by the end of 43 months from the date the application for temporary residence, Form I-687, was approved the application for permanent residence will be adjudicated on the basis of the existing record.
(e)
Interview.
Each applicant regardless of age, must appear at the appropriate Service office and must be fingerprinted for the purpose of issuance of Form I-551. Each applicant shall be interviewed by an immigration officer, except that the adjudicative interview may be waived for a child under 14, or when it is impractical because of the health or advanced age of the applicant. An applicant failing to appear for the scheduled interview may, for good cause, be afforded another interview. Where an applicant fails to appear for two scheduled interviews, his or her application shall be held in abeyance until the end of 43 months from the date the application for temporary residence was approved and adjudicated on the basis of the existing record.
(f)
Numerical limitations.
The numerical limitations of sections 201 and 202 of the Act do not apply to the adjustment of aliens to lawful permanent resident status under section 245A(b) of the Act.
(g)
Applicability of exclusion grounds
—(1)
Grounds of exclusion not to be applied.
The following paragraphs of section 212(a) of the Act shall not apply to applicants for adjustment of status from temporary resident to permanent resident status: (14) workers entering without labor certification; (20) immigrants not in possession of valid entry documents; (21) visas issued without compliance of section 203; (25) illiterates; and (32) graduates of non-accredited medical schools.
(2)
Waiver of grounds of excludability.
Except as provided in paragraph (g)(3) of this section, the Service may waive any provision of section 212(a) of the Act only in the case of individual aliens for humanitarian purposes, to assure family unity, or when the granting of such a waiver is otherwise in the public interest. In any case where a provision of section 212(a) of the Act has been waived in connection with an alien's application for lawful temporary resident status under section 245A(a) of the Act, no additional waiver of the same ground of excludability will be required when the alien applies for permanent resident status under section 245A(b)(1) of the Act. In the event that the alien was excludable under any provision of section 212(a) of the Act at the time of temporary residency and failed to apply for a waiver in connection with the application for temporary resident status, or becomes excludable subsequent to the date temporary residence was granted, a waiver of the ground of excludability, if available, will be required before permanent resident status may be granted.
(3)
Grounds of exclusion that may not be waived.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Act the following provisions of section 212(a) of the Act may not be waived by the Attorney General under paragraph (g)(2) of this section:
(i) Paragraphs (9) and (10) (criminals);
(ii) Paragraph (15) (public charge) except for an alien who is or was an aged, blind, or disabled individual (as defined in section 1614(a)(1) of the Social Security Act);
(iii) Paragraph (23) (narcotics), except for a single offense of simple possession of thirty grams or less of marijuana;
(iv) Paragraphs (27) (prejudicial to the public interest), (28) (communists), and (29) (subversives);
(v) Paragraph (33) (participated in Nazi persecution).
(4)
Determination of Likely to become a public charge
and Special Rule. Prior to use of the special rule for determination of public charge, paragraph (g)(4)(iii) of this section, an alien must first be determined to be excludable under section 212(a)(15) of the Act. If the applicant is determined to be
likely to become a public charge,
he or she may still be admissible under the terms of the Special Rule.
(i) In determining whether an alien is
likely to become a public charge
financial responsibility of the alien is to be established by examining the totality of the alien's circumstances at the time of his or her application for legalization. The existence or absence of a particular factor should never be the sole criteria for determining if an alien is likely to become a public charge. The determination of financial responsibility should be a prospective evaluation based on the alien's age, health, income, and vocation.
(ii) The Special Rule for determination of public charge, paragraph (g)(4)(iii) of this section, is to be applied only after an initial determination that the alien is inadmissible under the provisions of section 212(a)(15) of the act.
(iii)
Special Rule.
An alien who has a consistent employment history which shows the ability to support himself or herself even though his or her income may be below the poverty level is not excludable under paragraph (g)(3)(ii) of this section. The alien's employment history need not be continuous in that it is uninterrupted. It should be continuous in the sense that the alien shall be regularly attached to the workforce, has an income over a substantial period of the applicable time, and has demonstrated the capacity to exist on his or her income without recourse to public cash assistance. The Special Rule is prospective in that the Service shall determine, based on the alien's history, whether he or she is likely to become a public charge. Past acceptance of public cash assistance within a history of consistent employment will enter into this decision. The weight given in considering applicability of the public charge provisions will depend on many factors, but the length of time an applicant has received public cash assistance will constitute a significant factor. It is not necessary to file a waiver in order to apply the Special Rule for Determination of Public Charge.
(5)
Public cash assistance and criminal history verification.
Declarations by an applicant that he or she has not been the recipient of public cash assistance and/or has not had a criminal record are subject to a verification of facts by the Service. The applicant must agree to fully cooperate in the verification process. Failure to assist the Service in verifying information necessary for proper adjudication may result in denial of the application.
(h)
Departure.
An applicant for adjustment to lawful permanent resident status under section 245A(b)(1) of the Act who was granted lawful temporary resident status under section 245A(a) of the Act, shall be permitted to return to the United States after such brief and casual trips abroad, as long as the alien reflects a continuing intention to adjust to lawful permanent resident status. However, such absences from the United States must not exceed the periods of time specified in § 245a.3(b)(2) of this chapter in order for the alien to maintain continuous residence as specified in the Act.
(i)
Decision.
The applicant shall be notified in writing of the decision, and, if the application is denied, of the reason therefor. Applications for permanent residence under this chapter will not be denied at local INS offices (districts, suboffices, and legalization offices) until the entire record of proceeding has been reviewed. An application will not be denied if the denial is based on adverse information not previously furnished to the Service by the alien without providing the alien an opportunity to rebut the adverse information and to present evidence in his or her behalf. If inconsistencies are found between information submitted with the adjustment application and information previously furnished to the Service, the applicant shall be afforded the opportunity to explain discrepancies or rebut any adverse information. A party affected under this part by an adverse decision is entitled to file an appeal on Form I-694. If an application is denied, work authorization will be granted until a final decision has been rendered on an appeal or until the end of the appeal period if no appeal is filed. An applicant whose appeal period has ended is no longer considered to be an Eligible Legalized Alien for the purposes of the administration of State Legalization Impact Assistance Grants (SLIAG) funding. An alien whose application is denied will not be required to surrender his or her
temporary resident card (I-688) until such time as the appeal period has tolled, or until expiration date of the I-688, whichever date is later. After exhaustion of an appeal, an applicant who believes that the grounds for denial have been overcome may submit another application with fee, provided that the application is submitted within his or her eligibility period.
(j)
Appeal process.
An adverse decision under this part may be appealed to the Associate Commissioner, Examinations (Administrative Appeals Unit) the appellate authority designated in § 103.1(f)(2). Any appeal shall be submitted to the Regional Processing Facility with the required fee within thirty (30) days after service of the Notice of Denial in accordance with the procedures of § 103.3(a) of this chapter. An appeal received after the thirty (30) day period has tolled will not be accepted. The thirty (30) day period for submitting an appeal begins three days after the notice of denial is mailed. If a review of the Record of Proceeding (ROP) is requested by the alien or his or her legal representative and an appeal has been properly filed, an additional thirty (30) days will be allowed for this review from the time the Record of Proceeding is photocopied and mailed. A brief may be submitted with the appeal form or submitted up to thirty (30) calendar days from the date of receipt of the appeal form at the Regional Processing Facility. Briefs filed after submission of the appeal should be mailed directly to the Regional Processing Facility. For good cause shown, the time within which a brief supporting an appeal may be submitted may be extended by the Director of the Regional Processing Facility.
(k)
Motions.
The Regional Processing Facility director may reopen and reconsider any adverse decision
sua sponte.
When an appeal to the Associate Commissioner, Examinations (Administrative Appeals Unit) has been filed, the INS director of the Regional Processing Facility may issue a new decision that will grant the benefit which has been requested. The director's new decision must be served on the appealing party within forty-five (45) days of receipt of any briefs and/or new evidence, or upon expiration of the time allowed for the submission of any briefs.
(l)
Certifications.
The Regional Processing Facility director or district director may, in accordance with § 103.4 of this chapter, certify a decision to the Associate Commissioner, Examinations (Administrative Appeals Unit) when the case involves an unusually complex or novel question of law or fact. The decision on an appealed case subsequently remanded back to either the Regional Processing Facility director or the district director will be certified to the Administrative Appeals Unit.
(m)
Date of adjustment to permanent residence.
The status of an alien whose application for permanent resident status is approved shall be adjusted to that of a lawful permanent resident as of the date of filing of the application for permanent residence or the eligibility date, whichever is later. For purposes of making application to petition for naturalization, the continuous residence requirements for naturalization shall begin as of the date the alien's status is adjusted to that of a person lawfully admitted for permanent residence under this part.
(n)
Limitation on access to information and confidentiality.
(1) No person other than a sworn officer or employee of the Department of Justice or bureau of agency thereof, will be permitted to examine individual applications. For purposes of this part, any individual employed under contract by the Service to work in connection with the Legalization Program shall be considered an
employee of the Department of Justice or bureau or agency thereof.
(2) No information furnished pursuant to an application for permanent resident status under this section shall be used for any purpose except: (i) To make a determination on the application; or (ii) for the enforcement of the provisions encompassed in section 245A(c)(6) of the Act, except as provided in paragraph (n)(3) of this section.
(3) If a determination is made by the Service that the alien has, in connection with his or her application, engaged in fraud or willful misrepresentation or concealment of a material fact, knowingly provided a false writing or document in making his or her
application, knowingly made a false statement or representation, or engaged in any other activity prohibited by section 245A(c)(6) of the Act, the Service shall refer the matter to the United States Attorney for prosecution of the alien and/or of any person who created or supplied a false writing or document for use in an application for adjustment of status under this part.
(4) Information contained in granted legalization files may be used by the Service at a later date to make a decision (i) On an immigrant visa petition or other status filed by the applicant under section 204(a) of the Act; (ii) On a naturalization application submitted by the applicant; (iii) For the preparation of reports to Congress under section 404 of IRCA, or; (iv) For the furnishing of information, at the discretion of the Attorney General, in the same manner and circumstances as census information may be disclosed by the Secretary of Commerce under section 8 of title 13, Unites States Code.
(o)
Rescission.
Rescission of adjustment of status under 245a shall occur under the guidelines established in section 246 of the Act.
[54 FR 29449, July 12, 1989; 54 FR 43384, Oct. 24, 1989, as amended at 56 FR 31061, July 9, 1991; 57 FR 3926, Feb. 3, 1992; 59 FR 33905, July 1, 1994; 85 FR 46927, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 245a.4
Adjustment to lawful resident status of certain nationals of countries for which extended voluntary departure has been made available.
(a)
Definitions.
As used in this section:
(1)
Act
means the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended by the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.
(2)
Service
means the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS).
(3)
Resided continuously
means that the alien shall be regarded as having resided continuously in the United States if, at the time of filing of the application for temporary resident status:
(i) No single absence from the United States has exceeded 45 days, and the aggregate of all absences has not exceeded 180 days between July 21, 1984, through the date the application for temporary resident status is filed, unless the alien can establish that due to emergent reasons, his or her return to the United States could not be accomplished within the time period allowed;
(ii) The alien was maintaining residence in the United States; and
(iii) The alien's departure from the United States was not based on an order of deportation.
An alien who has been absent from the United States in accordance with the Service's advance parole procedures shall not be considered as having interrupted his or her continuous residence as required at the time of filing an application. An alien who, after appearing for a scheduled interview to obtain an immigrant visa at a Consulate or Embassy in Canada or Mexico but who subsequently is not issued an immigrant visa and who is paroled back into the United States pursuant to the stateside criteria program, shall be considered as having
resided continuously.
(4)
Continuous residence
means that the alien shall be regarded as having resided continuously in the United States if, at the time of applying for adjustment from temporary residence to permanent resident status: No single absence from the United States has exceeded 30 days, and the aggregate of all absences has not exceeded 90 days between the date on which lawful temporary resident status was granted and the date permanent resident status was applied for, unless the alien can establish that due to emergent reasons or extenuating circumstances beyond his or her control, the return to the United States could not be accomplished within the time period(s) allowed. A single absence from the United States of more than 30 days, and aggregate absences of more than 90 days during the period for which continuous residence is required for adjustment to permanent resident status, shall break the continuity of such residence unless the temporary resident can establish to the satisfaction of the district director that he or she did not, in fact, abandon his or her residence in the United States during such period.
(5)
To make a determination
means obtaining and reviewing all information required to adjudicate an application
for the benefit sought and making a decision thereon. If fraud, willful misrepresentation or concealment of a material fact, knowingly providing a false writing or document, knowingly making a false statement or representation, or any other activity prohibited by the Act is established during the process of making the determination on the application, the Service shall refer the matter to the United States Attorney for prosecution of the alien or of any person who created or supplied a false writing or document for use in an application for adjustment of status under this part.
(6)
Continuous physical presence
means actual continuous presence in the United States since December 22, 1987, until filing of any application for adjustment of status. Aliens who were outside of the United States after enactment may apply for temporary residence if they reentered prior to March 21, 1988, provided they meet the continuous residence requirements, and are otherwise eligible for legalization.
(7)
Brief, casual, and innocent
means a departure authorized by the Service (advance parole) subsequent to March 21, 1988, for not more than 30 days for legitimate emergency or humanitarian purposes unless a further period of authorized departure has been granted in the discretion of the district director or a departure was beyond the alien's control.
(8)
Brief and casual
means temporary trips abroad as long as the alien establishes a continuing intention to adjust to lawful permanent resident status. However, such absences must not exceed the specific periods of time required in order to maintain continuous residence.
(9)
Certain nationals of countries for which extended voluntary departure has been made available on the basis of a nationality group determination at any time during the 5-year period ending on November 1, 1987
is limited to nationals of Poland, Afghanistan, Ethiopia, and Uganda.
(10)
Public cash assistance
means income or need-based monetary assistance to include, but not limited to, supplemental security income received by the alien through federal, state, or local programs designed to meet subsistence levels. It does not include assistance in kind, such as food stamps, public housing, or other non-cash benefits, nor does it include work related compensation or certain types of medical assistance (Medicare, Medicaid, emergency treatment, services to pregnant women or children under 18 years of age, or treatment in the interest of public health).
(11)
Designated entity
means any state, local, church, community, farm labor organization, voluntary organization, association of agricultural employers or individual determined by the Service to be qualified to assist aliens in the preparation of applications for legalization status.
(12)
Through the passage of time
means through the expiration date of the nonimmigrant permission to remain in the United States, including any extensions and/or change of status.
(13)
Prima facie eligibility
means eligibility is established if the applicant presents a completed I-687 and specific factual information which in the absence of rebuttal will establish a claim of eligibility under this part.
(b)
Application for temporary residence
—(1)
Application for temporary residence.
(i) An alien who is a national of Poland, Uganda, Ethiopia, or Afghanistan who has resided continuously in the United States since prior to July 2l, 1984, and who believes that he or she meets the eligibility requirements of section 245A of the Act must make application within the 21-month period beginning on March 21, 1988, and ending on December 22, 1989.
(ii) An alien who fails to file an application for adjustment of status to that of a temporary resident under § 245A.4 of this part during the time period, will be statutorily ineligible for such adjustment of status.
(2)
Eligibility
(i) The following categories of aliens who are not otherwise excludable under section 212(a) of the Act are eligible to apply for status to that of a person admitted for temporary residence:
(A) An alien who is a national of Poland, Uganda, Ethiopia, or Afghanistan, (other than an alien who entered as a nonimmigrant) who establishes that he or she entered the United States prior to July 21, 1984, and who
has thereafter resided continuously in the United States, and who has been physically present in the United States from December 22, 1987, until the date of filing the application.
(B) An alien who is a national of Poland, Uganda, Ethiopia, or Afghanistan, and establishes that he or she entered the United States as a nonimmigrant prior to July 21, 1984, and whose period of authorized admission expired through the passage of time prior to January 21, 1985, and who has thereafter resided continuously in the United States, and who has been physically present in the United States from December 22, 1987, until the date of filing the application.
(C) An alien who is a national of Poland, Uganda, Ethiopia, or Afghanistan, and establishes that he or she entered the United States as a nonimmigrant prior to July 21, 1984, and who applied for asylum prior to July 21, 1984, and who has thereafter resided continuously in the United States, and who has been physically present in the United States from December 22, 1987, until the date of filing the application.
(D) An alien who is a national of Poland, Uganda, Ethiopia, or Afghanistan, who would otherwise be eligible for temporary resident status and who establishes that he or she resided continuously in the United States prior to July 21, 1984, and who subsequently reentered the United States as a nonimmigrant in order to return to an unrelinquished residence. An alien described in this paragraph must have received a waiver of 212(a)(19) as an alien who entered the United States by fraud.
(E) An alien who is a national of Poland, Uganda, Ethiopia, or Afghanistan, and was a nonimmigrant who entered the United States in the classification A, A-1, A-2, G, G-1, G-2, G-3, or G-4, for Duration of Status (D/S), and whose qualifying employment terminated or who ceased to be recognized by the Department of State as being entitled to such classification prior to January 21, 1985, and who thereafter continued to reside in the United States.
(F) An alien who is a national of Poland, Uganda, Ethiopia, or Afghanistan, and who was a nonimmigrant who entered the United States as an F, F-1, or F-2 for Duration of Status (D/S), and who completed a full course of studies, including practical training (if any), and whose time period to depart the United States after completion of studies expired prior to January 21, 1985, and who has thereafter continued to reside in the United States. Those students placed in a
nunc pro tunc
retroactive student status which would otherwise preclude their eligibility for legalization under this section, must present evidence that they had otherwise terminated their status during the requisite time period. A dependent F-2 alien otherwise eligible who was admitted into the United States with a specific time period, as opposed to duration of status, documented on Service Form I-94 (see § 1.4), Arrival-Departure Record that extended beyond July 21, 1984 is considered eligible if the principal F-1 alien is found eligible.
(3)
Ineligible aliens.
(i) An alien who has been convicted of a felony, or three or more misdemeanors.
(ii) An alien who has assisted in the persecution of any person or persons on account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion.
(iii) An alien excludable under the provisions of section 212(a) of the Act whose grounds of excludability may not be waived.
(4)
Documentation.
Evidence to support an alien's eligibility for temporary residence status shall include documents establishing proof of identity, proof of nationality, proof of residence, and proof of financial responsibility, as well as photographs, a completed fingerprint card (Form FD-258), and a completed medical report of examination (Form I-693). All documentation submitted will be subject to Service verification. Applications submitted with unverifiable documentation may be denied. Failure by an applicant to authorize release to INS of information protected by the Privacy Act and/or related laws in order for INS to adjudicate a claim may result in denial of the benefit sought. Acceptable supporting documents for the four categories of documentation are discussed as follows:
(i)
Proof of identity.
Evidence to establish identity is listed below in descending order of preference:
(A) Passport;
(B) Birth certificate;
(C) Any national identity document from the alien's country of origin bearing photo and fingerprint;
(D) Driver's license or similar document issued by a state if it contains a photo;
(E) Baptismal Record/Marriage Certificate; or
(F) Affidavits.
(ii)
Proof of nationality.
Evidence to establish nationality is listed as follows:
(A) Passport;
(B) Birth certificate;
(C) Any national identity document from the alien's country of origin bearing photo and fingerprint;
(D) Other credible documents, including those created by, or in the possession of the INS, or any other documents (excluding affidavits) that, when taken singly, or together as a whole, establish the alien's nationality.
(iii)
Assumed names
—(A)
General.
In cases where an applicant claims to have met any of the eligibility criteria under an assumed name, the applicant has the burden of proving that the applicant was in fact the person who used that name. The applicant's true identity is established pursuant to the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section. The assumed name must appear in the documentation provided by the applicant to establish eligibility. To meet the requirement of this paragraph, documentation must be submitted to prove the common identity,
i.e.
, that the assumed name was in fact used by the applicant.
(B)
Proof of common identity.
The most persuasive evidence is a document issued in the assumed name which identifies the applicant by photograph, fingerprint, or detailed physical description. Other evidence which will be considered are affidavit(s) by a person or persons other than the applicant, made under oath, which identify the affiant by name and address, state the affiant's relationship to the applicant and the basis of the affiant's knowledge of the applicant's use of the assumed name. Affidavits accompanied by a photograph which has been identified by the affiant as the individual known to the affiant under the assumed name in question will carry greater weight.
(iv)
Proof of residence.
Evidence to establish proof of continuous residence in the United States during the requisite period of time may consist of any combination of the following:
(A) Past employment records, which may consist of pay stubs, W-2 Forms, certification of the filing of Federal income tax returns on IRS Form 6166, a state verification of the filing of state income tax returns, letters from employer(s) or, if the applicant has been in business for himself or herself, letters from banks and other firms with whom he or she has done business. In all of the above, the name of the alien and the name of the employer or other interested organizations must appear on the form or letter, as well as relevant dates. Letters from employers should be on employer letterhead stationery, if the employer has such stationery, and must include:
(
1
) Alien's address at the time of employment;
(
2
) Exact period of employment;
(
3
) Periods of layoff;
(
4
) Duties with the company;
(
5
) Whether or not the information was taken from official company records; and
(
6
) Where records are located, whether the Service may have access to the records.
If the records are unavailable, an affidavit form letter stating that the alien's employment records are unavailable and why such records are unavailable may be accepted in lieu of paragraphs (b)(4)(iv)(A)(
5
) and (
6
) of this section. This affidavit form letter shall be signed, attested to by the employer under penalty of perjury, and shall state the employer's willingness to come forward and give testimony if requested.
(B) Utility bills (gas, electric, phone, etc.) receipts, or letters from companies showing the dates during which the applicant received service are acceptable documentation.
(C) School records (letters, report cards, etc.) from the schools that the applicant or his or her children have attended in the United States must
show the name of school and periods of school attendance.
(D) Hospital or medical records showing treatment or hospitalization of the applicant or his or her children must show the name of the medical facility or physician and the date(s) of the treatment or hospitalization.
(E) Attestations by churches, unions, or other organizations as to the applicant's residence by letter which:
(
1
) Identify applicant by name;
(
2
) Are signed by an official (whose title is shown);
(
3
) Show inclusive dates of membership;
(
4
) State the address where applicant resided during membership period;
(
5
) Include the seal of the organization impressed on the letter or the letterhead of the organization, if the organization has letterhead stationery;
(
6
) Establish how the author knows the applicant; and
(
7
) Establish the origin of the information being attested to.
(F) Additional documents to support the applicant's claim may include:
(
1
) Money order receipts for money sent into or out of the country;
(
2
) Passport entries;
(
3
) Birth certificates of children born in the United States;
(
4
) Bank books with dated transactions;
(
5
) Letters or correspondence between applicant and other person or organization;
(
6
) Social Security card;
(
7
) Selective Service card;
(
8
) Automobile license receipts, title, vehicle registration, etc.;
(
9
) Deeds, mortgages, contracts to which applicant has been a party;
(
10
) Tax receipts;
(
11
) Insurance policies, receipts, or letters; and
(
12
) Any other relevant document.
(v)
Proof of financial responsibility.
An applicant for adjustment of status under this part is subject to the provisions of section 212(a)(15) of the Act relating to excludability of aliens likely to become public charges. Generally, the evidence of employment submitted under paragraph (b)(4)(iv)(A) of this section will serve to demonstrate the alien's financial responsibility during the documented period(s) of employment. If the alien's period(s) of residence in the United States include significant gaps in employment or if there is reason to believe that the alien may have received public assistance while employed, the alien may be required to provide proof that he or she has not received public cash assistance. An applicant for residence who is determined likely to become a public charge and is unable to overcome this determination after application of the Special Rule under paragraph (b)(11)(iv)(C) of this section will be denied adjustment. The burden of proof to demonstrate the inapplicability of this provision of law lies with the applicant who may provide:
(A) Evidence of a history of employment (
i.e.
, employment letter, W-2 forms, income tax returns, etc.);
(B) Evidence that he/she is self-supporting (
i.e.
, bank statements, stocks, other assets, etc.); or
(C) Form I-134. Affidavit of Support, completed by a spouse on behalf of the applicant and/or children of the applicant or a parent in behalf of children which guarantees complete or partial financial support. Acceptance of the Affidavit of Support shall be extended to other family members in unusual family circumstances.
Generally, the evidence of employment submitted under paragraph (b)(4)(iv)(A) of this section will serve to demonstrate the alien's financial responsibility during the documented period(s) of employment. If the alien's period(s) of residence in the United States include significant gaps in employment or if there is reason to believe that the alien may have received public assistance while employed, the alien may be required to provide proof that he or she has not received public cash assistance. An applicant for residence who is likely to become a public charge will be denied adjustment.
(vi)
Burden of proof.
An alien applying for adjustment of status under this part has the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that he or she has resided in the United States for the requisite periods, is admissible to the United States under the provisions of section 245A of the Act, and is otherwise eligible for adjustment of
status under this section. The inference to be drawn from the documentation provided shall depend on the extent of the documentation, its credibility and amenability to verification.
(vii)
Evidence.
The sufficiency of all evidence produced by the applicant will be judged according to its probative value and credibility. To meet his or her burden of proof, an applicant must provide evidence of eligibility apart from his or her own testimony. In judging the probative value and credibility of the evidence submitted, greater weight will be given to the submission of original documentation.
(5)
Filing of application.
(i) The application must be filed on Form I-687 at an office of a designated entity or at a Service office within the jurisdiction of the district where the applicant resides. If the application is filed with a designated entity, the alien must have consented to having the designated entity forward the application to the Service office. In the case of applications filed at a Service office, the district director may, at his or her discretion:
(A) Require the applicant to file the application in person; or
(B) Require the applicant to file the application by mail; or
(C) Permit the filing of applications whether by mail or in person.
The applicant must appear for a personal interview at the Service office as scheduled. If the applicant is 14 years of age or older, the application must be accompanied by a completed Form FD-258 (Applicant Card).
(ii) At the time of the interview, whenever possible, original documents must be submitted except the following: Official government records; employment or employment-related records maintained by employers, union, or collective bargaining organizations; medical records; school records maintained by a school or school board; or other records maintained by a party other than the applicant. Copies of records maintained by parties other than the applicant which are submitted in evidence must be certified as true and correct by such parties and must bear their seal or signature or the signature and title of persons authorized to act in their behalf. If at the time of the interview the return of the original document is desired by the applicant, the document must be accompanied by notarized copies or copies certified true and correct by a qualified designated entity or by the alien's representative in the format prescribed in § 204.2(j)(1) or (2) of this chapter. At the discretion of the district director, original documents, even if accompanied by certified copies, may be temporarily retained for forensic examination by the Document Analysis Unit at the Regional Processing Facility having jurisdiction over the Service office to which the documents were submitted.
(iii) A separate application must be filed by each applicant with the fees required by 8 CFR 106.2.
(6)
Filing date of application.
The date the alien submits a completed application to a Service office or designated entity shall be considered the filing date of the application, provided that in the case of an application filed at a designated entity the alien has consented to having the designated entity forward the application to the Service office having jurisdiction over the location of the alien's residence. Designated entities are required to forward completed applications to the appropriate Service office within 60 days of receipt.
(7)
Selective Service registration.
At the time of filing an application under this section, male applicants over the age of 17 and under the age of 26, are required to be registered under the Military Selective Service Act. An applicant shall present evidence that he has previously registered under that Act in the form of a letter of acknowledgement from the Selective Service System, or such alien shall present a completed and signed Form SSS-1 at the time of filing Form I-687 with the Immigration and Naturalization Service or a designated entity. Form SSS-1 will be forwarded to the Selective Service System by the Service.
(8)
Continuous residence.
(i) For the purpose of this Act, an applicant for temporary residence status shall be regarded as having resided continuously in the United States if, at the time of filing of the application:
(A) No single absence from the United States has exceeded 45 days, and the aggregate of all absences has not exceeded 180 days between July 2l, 1984, through the date the application for temporary resident status is filed, unless the alien can establish that due to emergent reasons, his or her return to the United States could not be accomplished within the time period allowed;
(B) The alien was maintaining a residence in the United States; and
(C) The alien's departure from the United States was not based on an order of deportation.
(ii) An alien who has been absent from the United States in accordance with the Service's advance parole procedures shall not be considered as having interrupted his or her continuous residence as required at the time of filing an application under this section.
(9)
Medical examination.
(i) An applicant under this part shall be required to submit to an examination by a designated civil surgeon at no expense to the government. The designated civil surgeon shall report on the findings of the mental and physical condition of the applicant and the determination of the alien's immunization status on Form I-693, “Medical Examination of Aliens Seeking Adjustment of Status, (Pub. L. 99-603)”. Results of the medical examination must be presented to the Service at the time of interview and shall be incorporated into the record. Any applicant certified under paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4) or (5) of section 212(a) of the Act may appeal to a Board of Medical Officers of the U.S. Public Health Service as provided in section 234 of the Act and part 235 of this chapter.
(ii) All applicants who file for temporary resident status are required to include the results of a serological test for the HIV virus on the I-693. All HIV-positive applicants shall be advised that a waiver is available and shall be provided with the opportunity to apply for a waiver.
(10)
Interview.
Each applicant, regardless of age, must appear at the appropriate Service office and must be fingerprinted for the purpose of issuance of an employment authorization document and Form I-688. Each applicant shall be interviewed by an immigration officer, except that the interview may be waived for a child under 14 years of age, or when it is impractical because of the health or advanced age of the applicant.
(11)
Applicability of exclusion grounds
—(i)
Grounds of exclusion not to be applied.
Paragraphs (14), (workers entering without labor certification); (20), (immigrants not in possession of a valid entry document); (21), (visas issued without compliance with section 203); (25), (illiterates); and (32) (graduates of non-accredited medical schools) of section 212(a) of the Act shall not apply to applicants for temporary resident status.
(ii)
Waiver of grounds of exclusion.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(11)(iii) of this section, the Attorney General may waive any other provision of section 212(a) of the Act only in the case of individual aliens for humanitarian purposes, to assure family unity, or when the granting of such a waiver is in the public interest. If an alien is excludable on grounds which may be waived as set forth in this paragraph, he or she shall be advised of the procedures for applying for a waiver of grounds of excludability on Form I-690. When an application for waiver of grounds of excludability is filed jointly with an application for temporary residence under this section, it shall be accepted for processing at the Service office. If an application for waiver of grounds of excludability is submitted after the alien's preliminary interview at the Service office, it shall be forwarded to the appropriate Regional Processing Facility. All applications for waivers of grounds of excludability must be accompanied by the correct fee in the exact amount. All fees for applications filed in the United States must be in the form of a money order, cashier's check, or bank check. No personal checks or currency will be accepted. Fees will not be waived or refunded under any circumstances. An application for waiver of grounds of excludability under this part shall be approved or denied by the director of the Regional Processing Facility in whose jurisdiction the alien's application for adjustment of status was filed except that in cases involving clear statutory
