(B) Requires the owner or landlord of the housing to include a lease provision that include all requirements that apply to tenants, the owner or the lease under 24 CFR part 5, subpart L, as supplemented by this part, including the prohibited bases for eviction and restrictions on construing lease terms under 24 CFR 5.005(b) and (c). The lease may specify that the protections under 24 CFR part 5, subpart L, only apply while the program participant receives tenant-based rental assistance under the Continuum of Care Program.
(6)
Transition.
(i) The recipient or subrecipient must ensure that the requirements set forth in paragraph (j)(5) of this section apply to any contracts, leases, subleases, or occupancy agreements entered into, or renewed, following the expiration of an existing term, on or after the effective date in paragraph (j)(2) of this section. This obligation includes any contracts, leases, subleases, and occupancy agreements that will automatically renew on or after the effective date in paragraph (j)(3) of this section.
(ii) For leases for tenant-based rental assistance existing prior to the effective date in paragraph (j)(2) of this section, recipients and subrecipients must enter into a contract under paragraph (j)(6)(iv) of this section before the next renewal of the lease.
(7)
Bifurcation.
For the purposes of this part, the following requirements shall apply in place of the requirements at 24 CFR 5.2009(b):
(i) If a family who is receiving tenant-based rental assistance under this part separates under 24 CFR 5.2009(a), the family's tenant-based rental assistance and any utility assistance shall continue for the family member(s) who are not evicted or removed.
(ii) If a family living in permanent supportive housing separates under 24 CFR 5.2009(a), and the family's eligibility for the housing was based on the evicted individual's disability or chronically homeless status, the remaining tenants may stay in the project as provided under § 578.75(i)(2). Otherwise, if a family living in a project funded under this part separates under 24 CFR 5.2009(a), the remaining tenant(s) will be eligible to remain in the project.
(8)
Emergency transfer plan.
The Continuum of Care must develop an emergency transfer plan for the Continuum of Care, and recipients and subrecipients in the Continuum of Care must follow that plan. The plan must comply with 24 CFR 5.2005(e) and include the following program requirements:
(i) For families receiving tenant-based rental assistance, the plan must specify what will happen with respect to the non-transferring family member(s), if the family separates in order to effect an emergency transfer.
(ii) For families living in units that are otherwise assisted under this part (assisted units), the required policies must provide that for program participants who qualify for an emergency transfer but a safe unit is not immediately available for an internal emergency transfer, the individual or family shall have priority over all other applicants for rental assistance, transitional housing, and permanent supportive housing projects funded under this part, provided that: The individual or family meets all eligibility criteria required by Federal law or regulation or HUD NOFA; and the individual or family meets any additional criteria or preferences established in accordance with § 578.93(b)(1), (4), (6), or (7). The individual or family shall not be required to meet any other eligibility criteria or preferences for the project. The individual or family shall retain their original homeless or chronically homeless status for the purposes of the transfer.
(9)
Protections with respect to safe havens.
The following requirements apply to safe havens funded under this part:
(i) No individual may be denied admission to or removed from the safe haven on the basis or as a direct result of the fact that the individual is or has been a victim of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, if the individual otherwise qualifies for admission or occupancy.
(iii) The terms “affiliated individual,” “dating violence,” “domestic violence,” “sexual assault,” and “stalking” are defined in 24 CFR 5.2003.
[77 FR 45442, July 31, 2012, as amended at 80 FR 75940, Dec. 7, 2015; 81 FR 80810, Nov. 16, 2016; 81 FR 87812, Dec. 6, 2016; 85 FR 61568, Sept. 29, 2020]

# Subpart G—Grant Administration
§ 578.101
Technical assistance.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of Continuum of Care technical assistance is to increase the effectiveness with which Continuums of Care, eligible applicants, recipients, subrecipients, and UFAs implement and administer their Continuum of Care planning process; improve their capacity to prepare applications; prevent the separation of families in projects funded under the Emergency Solutions Grants, Continuum of Care, and Rural Housing Stability Assistance programs; and adopt and provide best practices in housing and services for persons experiencing homelessness.
(b)
Defined.
Technical assistance means the transfer of skills and knowledge to entities that may need, but do not possess, such skills and knowledge. The assistance may include, but is not limited to, written information such as papers, manuals, guides, and brochures; person-to-person exchanges; web-based curriculums, training and Webinars, and their costs.
(c)
Set-aside.
HUD may set aside funds annually to provide technical assistance, either directly by HUD staff or indirectly through third-party providers.
(d)
Awards.
From time to time, as HUD determines the need, HUD may advertise and competitively select providers to deliver technical assistance. HUD may enter into contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements, when necessary, to implement the technical assistance. HUD may also enter into agreements with other federal agencies for awarding the technical assistance funds.
§ 578.103
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a)
In general.
The recipient and its subrecipients must establish and maintain standard operating procedures for ensuring that Continuum of Care program funds are used in accordance with the requirements of this part and must establish and maintain sufficient records to enable HUD to determine whether the recipient and its subrecipients are meeting the requirements of this part, including:
(1)
Continuum of Care records.
Each collaborative applicant must keep the following documentation related to establishing and operating a Continuum of Care:
(i) Evidence that the Board selected by the Continuum of Care meets the requirements of § 578.5(b);
(ii) Evidence that the Continuum has been established and operated as set forth in subpart B of this part, including published agendas and meeting minutes, an approved Governance Charter that is reviewed and updated annually, a written process for selecting a board that is reviewed and updated at least once every 5 years, evidence required for designating a single HMIS for the Continuum, and monitoring reports of recipients and subrecipients;
(iii) Evidence that the Continuum has prepared the application for funds as set forth in § 578.9, including the designation of the eligible applicant to be the collaborative applicant.
(2)
Unified funding agency records.
UFAs that requested grant amendments from HUD, as set forth in § 578.105, must keep evidence that the grant amendment was approved by the Continuum. This evidence may include minutes of meetings at which the grant amendment was discussed and approved.
(3)
Homeless status.
Acceptable evidence of the homeless as status is set forth in 24 CFR 576.500(b).
(4)
Chronically homeless status.
The recipient must maintain and follow written intake procedures to ensure compliance with the chronically homeless definition in § 578.3. The procedures must require documentation at intake of the evidence relied upon to establish and verify chronically homeless status. The procedures must establish the order of priority for obtaining evidence as third-party documentation first, intake worker observations second, and certification from the person seeking assistance third. Records contained in an HMIS, or comparable database used by victim service or legal service providers, are acceptable evidence of third-party documentation and intake worker observations if the HMIS, or comparable database, retains an auditable history of all entries, including the person who entered the data, the date of entry, and the change made, and if the HMIS prevents overrides or changes of the dates on which entries are made.
(i) For paragraph (1) of the “Chronically homeless” definition in § 578.3, evidence that the individual is a “homeless individual with a disability” as defined in section 401(9) of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11360(9)) must include:
(A) Evidence of homeless status as set forth in paragraph (a)(3) of this section; and
(B) Evidence of a disability. In addition to the documentation required under paragraph (a)(4)(i)(A) of this section, the procedures must require documentation at intake of the evidence relied upon to establish and verify the disability of the person applying for homeless assistance. The recipient must keep these records for 5 years after the end of the grant term. Acceptable evidence of the disability includes:
(
1
) Written verification of the disability from a professional licensed by the state to diagnose and treat the disability and his or her certification that the disability is expected to be long-continuing or of indefinite duration and substantially impedes the individual's ability to live independently;
(
2
) Written verification from the Social Security Administration;
(
3
) The receipt of a disability check (
e.g.,
Social Security Disability Insurance check or Veteran Disability Compensation);
(
4
) Intake staff-recorded observation of disability that, no later than 45 days from the application for assistance, is confirmed and accompanied by evidence in paragraph (a)(4)(i)(B)(
1
), (
2
), (
3
), or (
5
) of this section; or
(
5
) Other documentation approved by HUD.
(ii) For paragraph (1)(i) of the “Chronically homeless” definition in § 578.3, evidence that the individual lives in a place not meant for human habitation, a safe haven, or an emergency shelter, which includes:
(A) An HMIS record or record from a comparable database;
(B) A written observation by an outreach worker of the conditions where the individual was living;
(C) A written referral by another housing or service provider; or
(D) Where evidence in paragraphs (a)(4)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section cannot be obtained, a certification by the individual seeking assistance, which must be accompanied by the intake worker's documentation of the living situation of the individual or family seeking assistance and the steps taken to obtain evidence in paragraphs (a)(4)(ii)(A) through (C).
(iii) For paragraph (1)(ii) of the “Chronically homeless” definition in § 578.3, evidence must include a combination of the evidence described in paragraphs (a)(4)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section, subject to the following conditions:
(A) Third-party documentation of a single encounter with a homeless service provider on a single day within 1 month is sufficient to consider an individual as homeless and living or residing in a place not meant for human habitation, a safe haven, or an emergency shelter for the entire calendar month (e.g., an encounter on May 5, 2015, counts for May 1—May 31, 2015), unless there is evidence that there have been at least 7 consecutive nights not living or residing in a place not meant for human habitation, a safe haven, or an emergency shelter during that month (e.g., evidence in HMIS of a stay in transitional housing);
(B) Each break in homelessness of at least 7 consecutive nights not living or residing in a place not meant for human habitation, a safe haven, or in an emergency shelter between separate occasions must be documented with the evidence described in paragraphs (a)(4)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section;
(C) Evidence of stays in institutional care facilities fewer than 90 days included in the total of at least 12 months of living or residing in a place not meant for human habitation, a safe haven, or an emergency shelter must include the evidence in paragraphs (a)(4)(iv)(A) through (B) of this section and evidence described in paragraphs (a)(4)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section that the individual was living or residing in a place not meant for human habitation, a safe haven, or an emergency shelter immediately prior to entering the institutional care facility; and
(D) For at least 75 percent of the chronically homeless individuals and families assisted by a recipient in a project during an operating year, no more than 3 months of living or residing in a place not meant for human habitation, a safe haven, or an emergency shelter may be documented using the evidence in paragraph (a)(4)(ii)(D) of this section for each assisted chronically homeless individual or family. This limitation does not apply to documentation of breaks in homelessness between separate occasions, which may be documented entirely based on a self-report by the individual seeking assistance.
(iv) If an individual qualifies as chronically homeless under paragraph (2) of the “Chronically homeless” definition in § 578.3 because he or she has been residing in an institutional care facility for fewer than 90 days and met all of the criteria in paragraph (1) of the definition, before entering that facility, evidence must include the following:
(A) Discharge paperwork or a written or oral referral from a social worker, case manager, or other appropriate official of the institutional care facility stating the beginning and end dates of the time residing in the institutional care facility. All oral statements must be recorded by the intake worker; or
(B) Where the evidence in paragraph (a)(4)(iv)(A) of this section is not obtainable, a written record of the intake worker's due diligence in attempting to obtain the evidence described in paragraph (a)(4)(iv)(A) and a certification by the individual seeking assistance that states that he or she is exiting or has just exited an institutional care facility where he or she resided for fewer than 90 days; and
(C) Evidence as set forth in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section that the individual met the criteria in paragraph (1) of the definition for “Chronically homeless” in § 578.3, immediately prior to entry into the institutional care facility.
(v) If a family qualifies as chronically homeless under paragraph (3) of
the “Chronically homeless” definition in § 578.3, evidence must include the evidence as set forth in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section that the adult head of household (or if there is no adult in the family, a minor head of household) met all of the criteria in paragraph (1) or (2) of the definition.
(5)
At risk of homelessness status.
For those recipients and subrecipients that serve persons at risk of homelessness, the recipient or subrecipient must keep records that establish “at risk of homelessness” status of each individual or family who receives Continuum of Care homelessness prevention assistance. Acceptable evidence is found in 24 CFR 576.500(c).
(6)
Moves for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.
(i) For each program participant who moved to a different Continuum of Care due to imminent threat of further domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking under § 578.51(c)(3), each recipient or subrecipient of assistance under this part must retain:
(A) Documentation of the original incidence of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, only if the original violence is not already documented in the program participant's case file. This may be written observation of the housing or service provider; a letter or other documentation from a victim service provider, social worker, legal assistance provider, pastoral counselor, mental health provider, or other professional from whom the victim has sought assistance; medical or dental records; court records or law enforcement records; or written certification by the program participant to whom the violence occurred or by the head of household.
(B) Documentation of the reasonable belief of imminent threat of further domestic violence, dating violence, or sexual assault or stalking, which would include threats from a third-party, such as a friend or family member of the perpetrator of the violence. This may be written observation by the housing or service provider; a letter or other documentation from a victim service provider, social worker, legal assistance provider, pastoral counselor, mental health provider, or other professional from whom the victim has sought assistance; current restraining order; recent court order or other court records; law enforcement report or records; communication records from the perpetrator of the violence or family members or friends of the perpetrator of the violence, including emails, voicemails, text messages, and social media posts; or a written certification by the program participant to whom the violence occurred or the head of household.
(ii) Data on emergency transfers requested under 24 CFR 5.2005(e) and § 578.99, pertaining to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, including data on the outcomes of such requests.
(7)
Annual income.
For each program participant who receives housing assistance where rent or an occupancy charge is paid by the program participant, the recipient or subrecipient must keep the following documentation of annual income:
(i) Income evaluation form specified by HUD and completed by the recipient or subrecipient; and
(ii) Source documents (
e.g.,
most recent wage statement, unemployment compensation statement, public benefits statement, bank statement) for the assets held by the program participant and income received before the date of the evaluation;
(iii) To the extent that source documents are unobtainable, a written statement by the relevant third party (
e.g.,
employer, government benefits administrator) or the written certification by the recipient's or subrecipient's intake staff of the oral verification by the relevant third party of the income the program participant received over the most recent period; or
(iv) To the extent that source documents and third-party verification are unobtainable, the written certification by the program participant of the amount of income that the program participant is reasonably expected to receive over the 3-month period following the evaluation.
(8)
Program participant records.
In addition to evidence of “homeless” status or “at-risk-of-homelessness” status, as applicable, the recipient or subrecipient must keep records for each program participant that document:
(i) The services and assistance provided to that program participant, including evidence that the recipient or subrecipient has conducted an annual assessment of services for those program participants that remain in the program for more than a year and adjusted the service package accordingly, and including case management services as provided in § 578.37(a)(1)(ii)(F); and
(ii) Where applicable, compliance with the termination of assistance requirement in § 578.91.
(9)
Housing standards.
The recipient or subrecipient must retain documentation of compliance with the housing standards in § 578.75(b), including inspection reports.
(10)
Services provided.
The recipient or subrecipient must document the types of supportive services provided under the recipient's program and the amounts spent on those services. The recipient or subrecipient must keep record that these records were reviewed at least annually and that the service package offered to program participants was adjusted as necessary.
(11)
Match.
The recipient must keep records of the source and use of contributions made to satisfy the match requirement in § 578.73. The records must indicate the grant and fiscal year for which each matching contribution is counted. The records must show how the value placed on third party in-kind contributions was derived. To the extent feasible, volunteer services must be supported by the same methods that the organization uses to support the allocation of regular personnel costs.
(12)
Conflicts of interest.
The recipient and its subrecipients must keep records to show compliance with the organizational conflict-of-interest requirements in § 578.95(c), the Continuum of Care board conflict-of-interest requirements in § 578.95(b), the other conflict requirements in § 578.95(d), a copy of the personal conflict-of-interest policy developed and implemented to comply with the requirements in § 578.95, and records supporting exceptions to the personal conflict-of-interest prohibitions.
(13)
Homeless participation.
The recipient or subrecipient must document its compliance with the homeless participation requirements under § 578.75(g).
(14)
Faith-based activities.
The recipient and its subrecipients must document their compliance with the faith-based activities requirements under § 578.87(b).
(15)
Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing.
Recipients and subrecipients must maintain copies of their marketing, outreach, and other materials used to inform eligible persons of the program to document compliance with the requirements in § 578.93(c).
(16)
Other federal requirements.
The recipient and its subrecipients must document their compliance with the federal requirements in § 578.99, as applicable.
(17)
Subrecipients and contractors.
(i) The recipient must retain copies of all solicitations of and agreements with subrecipients, records of all payment requests by and dates of payments made to subrecipients, and documentation of all monitoring and sanctions of subrecipients, as applicable.
(ii) The recipient must retain documentation of monitoring subrecipients, including any monitoring findings and corrective actions required.
(iii) The recipient and its subrecipients must retain copies of all procurement contracts and documentation of compliance with the procurement requirements in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D.
(18)
Other records specified by HUD.
The recipient and subrecipients must keep other records specified by HUD.
(b)
Confidentiality.
In addition to meeting the specific confidentiality and security requirements for HMIS data, the recipient and its subrecipients must develop and implement written procedures to ensure:
(1) All records containing protected identifying information of any individual or family who applies for and/or receives Continuum of Care assistance will be kept secure and confidential;
(2) The address or location of any family violence project assisted with Continuum of Care funds will not be
made public, except with written authorization of the person responsible for the operation of the project; and
(3) The address or location of any housing of a program participant will not be made public, except as provided under a preexisting privacy policy of the recipient or subrecipient and consistent with State and local laws regarding privacy and obligations of confidentiality;
(c)
Period of record retention.
All records pertaining to Continuum of Care funds must be retained for the greater of 5 years or the period specified below. Copies made by microfilming, photocopying, or similar methods may be substituted for the original records.
(1) Documentation of each program participant's qualification as a family or individual at risk of homelessness or as a homeless family or individual and other program participant records must be retained for 5 years after the expenditure of all funds from the grant under which the program participant was served; and
(2) Where Continuum of Care funds are used for the acquisition, new construction, or rehabilitation of a project site, records must be retained until 15 years after the date that the project site is first occupied, or used, by program participants.
(d)
Access to records.
(1)
Federal Government rights.
Notwithstanding the confidentiality procedures established under paragraph (b) of this section, HUD, the HUD Office of the Inspector General, and the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their authorized representatives, must have the right of access to all books, documents, papers, or other records of the recipient and its subrecipients that are pertinent to the Continuum of Care grant, in order to make audits, examinations, excerpts, and transcripts. These rights of access are not limited to the required retention period, but last as long as the records are retained.
(2)
Public rights.
The recipient must provide citizens, public agencies, and other interested parties with reasonable access to records regarding any uses of Continuum of Care funds the recipient received during the preceding 5 years, consistent with State and local laws regarding privacy and obligations of confidentiality and confidentiality requirements in this part.
(e)
Reports.
In addition to the reporting requirements in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, the recipient must collect and report data on its use of Continuum of Care funds in an Annual Performance Report (APR), as well as in any additional reports as and when required by HUD. Projects receiving grant funds only for acquisition, rehabilitation, or new construction must submit APRs for 15 years from the date of initial occupancy or the date of initial service provision, unless HUD provides an exception under § 578.81(e).
[77 FR 45442, July 31, 2012, as amended at 80 FR 75804, Dec. 4, 2015; 80 FR 75940, Dec. 7, 2015; 80 FR 80258, Dec. 24, 2015; 81 FR 80811, Nov. 16, 2016]
§ 578.105
Grant and project changes.
(a)
For Unified Funding Agencies and Continuums having only one recipient.
(1) The recipient may not make any significant changes without prior HUD approval, evidenced by a grant amendment signed by HUD and the recipient. Significant grant changes include a change of recipient, a shift in a single year of more than 10 percent of the total amount awarded under the grant for one approved eligible activity category to another activity and a permanent change in the subpopulation served by any one project funded under the grant, as well as a permanent proposed reduction in the total number of units funded under the grant.
(2) Approval of substitution of the recipient is contingent on the new recipient meeting the capacity criteria in the NOFA under which the grant was awarded, or the most recent NOFA. Approval of shifting funds between activities and changing subpopulations is contingent on the change being necessary to better serve eligible persons within the geographic area and ensuring that the priorities established under the NOFA in which the grant was originally awarded, or the most recent NOFA, are met.
(b)
For Continuums having more than one recipient.
(1) The recipients or subrecipients may not make any significant changes to a project without prior HUD approval, evidenced by a grant
amendment signed by HUD and the recipient. Significant changes include a change of recipient, a change of project site, additions or deletions in the types of eligible activities approved for a project, a shift of more than 10 percent from one approved eligible activity to another, a reduction in the number of units, and a change in the subpopulation served.
(2) Approval of substitution of the recipient is contingent on the new recipient meeting the capacity criteria in the NOFA under which the grant was awarded, or the most recent NOFA. Approval of shifting funds between activities and changing subpopulations is contingent on the change being necessary to better serve eligible persons within the geographic area and ensuring that the priorities established under the NOFA in which the grant was originally awarded, or the most recent NOFA, are met.
(c)
Documentation of changes not requiring a grant amendment.
Any other changes to an approved grant or project must be fully documented in the recipient's or subrecipient's records.
§ 578.107
Sanctions.
(a)
Performance reviews.
(1) HUD will review the performance of each recipient in carrying out its responsibilities under this part, with or without prior notice to the recipient. In conducting performance reviews, HUD will rely primarily on information obtained from the records and reports from the recipient and subrecipients, as well as information from on-site monitoring, audit reports, and information generated from HUD's financial and reporting systems (
e.g.,
LOCCS and e-snaps) and HMIS. Where applicable, HUD may also consider relevant information pertaining to the recipient's performance gained from other sources, including citizen comments, complaint determinations, and litigation.
(2) If HUD determines preliminarily that the recipient or one of its subrecipients has not complied with a program requirement, HUD will give the recipient notice of this determination and an opportunity to demonstrate, within the time prescribed by HUD and on the basis of substantial facts and data that the recipient has complied with the requirements. HUD may change the method of payment to require the recipient to submit documentation before payment and obtain HUD's prior approval each time the recipient draws down funds. To obtain prior approval, the recipient may be required to manually submit its payment requests and supporting documentation to HUD in order to show that the funds to be drawn down will be expended on eligible activities in accordance with all program requirements.
(3) If the recipient fails to demonstrate to HUD's satisfaction that the activities were carried out in compliance with program requirements, HUD may take one or more of the remedial actions or sanctions specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Remedial actions and sanctions.
Remedial actions and sanctions for a failure to meet a program requirement will be designed to prevent a continuation of the deficiency; to mitigate, to the extent possible, its adverse effects or consequences; and to prevent its recurrence.
(1) HUD may instruct the recipient to submit and comply with proposals for action to correct, mitigate, and prevent noncompliance with program requirements, including:
(i) Preparing and following a schedule of actions for carrying out activities and projects affected by the noncompliance, including schedules, timetables, and milestones necessary to implement the affected activities and projects;
(ii) Establishing and following a management plan that assigns responsibilities for carrying out the remedial actions;
(iii) Canceling or revising activities or projects likely to be affected by the noncompliance, before expending grant funds for them;
(iv) Reprogramming grant funds that have not yet been expended from affected activities or projects to other eligible activities or projects;
(v) Suspending disbursement of grant funds for some or all activities or projects;
(vi) Reducing or terminating the remaining grant of a subrecipient and either reallocating those funds to other
subrecipients or returning funds to HUD; and
(vii) Making matching contributions before or as draws are made from the recipient's grant.
(2) HUD may change the method of payment to a reimbursement basis.
(3) HUD may suspend payments to the extent HUD determines necessary to preclude the further expenditure of funds for affected activities or projects.
(4) HUD may continue the grant with a substitute recipient of HUD's choosing.
(5) HUD may deny matching credit for all or part of the cost of the affected activities and require the recipient to make further matching contributions to make up for the contribution determined to be ineligible.
(6) HUD may require the recipient to reimburse the recipient's line of credit in an amount equal to the funds used for the affected activities.
(7) HUD may reduce or terminate the remaining grant of a recipient.
(8) HUD may condition a future grant.
(9) HUD may take other remedies that are legally available.
(c)
Recipient sanctions.
If the recipient determines that a subrecipient is not complying with a program requirement or its subrecipient agreement, the recipient must take one of the actions listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(d)
Deobligation.
HUD may deobligate funds for the following reasons:
(1) If the timeliness standards in § 578.85 are not met;
(2) If HUD determines that delays completing construction activities for a project will mean that the funds for other funded activities cannot reasonably be expected to be expended for eligible costs during the remaining term of the grant;
(3) If the actual total cost of acquisition, rehabilitation, or new construction for a project is less than the total cost agreed to in the grant agreement;
(4) If the actual annual leasing costs, operating costs, supportive services costs, rental assistance costs, or HMIS costs are less than the total cost agreed to in the grant agreement for a one-year period;
(5) Program participants have not moved into units within 3 months of the time that the units are available for occupancy; and
(6) The grant agreement may set forth in detail other circumstances under which funds may be deobligated and other sanctions may be imposed.
§ 578.109
Closeout.
(a)
In general.
Grants will be closed out in accordance with the requirements of 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, and closeout procedures established by HUD.
(b)
Reports.
Applicants must submit all reports required by HUD no later than 90 days from the date of the end of the project's grant term.
(c)
Closeout agreement.
Any obligations remaining as of the date of the closeout must be covered by the terms of a closeout agreement. The agreement will be prepared by HUD in consultation with the recipient. The agreement must identify the grant being closed out, and include provisions with respect to the following:
(1) Identification of any closeout costs or contingent liabilities subject to payment with Continuum of Care program funds after the closeout agreement is signed;
(2) Identification of any unused grant funds to be deobligated by HUD;
(3) Identification of any program income on deposit in financial institutions at the time the closeout agreement is signed;
(4) Description of the recipient's responsibility after closeout for:
(i) Compliance with all program requirements in using program income on deposit at the time the closeout agreement is signed and in using any other remaining Continuum of Care program funds available for closeout costs and contingent liabilities;
(ii) Use of real property assisted with Continuum of Care program funds in accordance with the terms of commitment and principles;
(iii) Use of personal property purchased with Continuum of Care program funds; and
(iv) Compliance with requirements governing program income received subsequent to grant closeout.
(5) Other provisions appropriate to any special circumstances of the grant closeout, in modification of or in addition to the obligations in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
[77 FR 45442, July 31, 2012, as amended at 80 FR 75940, Dec. 7, 2015]
Pt. 581

# PART 581—USE OF FEDERAL REAL PROPERTY TO ASSIST THE HOMELESS
Sec.
581.1
Definitions.
581.2
Applicability.
581.3
Collecting the information.
581.4
Suitability determination.
581.5
Real property reported excess to GSA.
581.6
Suitability criteria.
581.7
Determination of availability for suitable properties.
581.8
Public notice of determination.
581.9
General policies of HHS.
581.10
Expression of interest process.
581.11
Application process and requirements.
581.12
Action on approved applications.
581.13
Waivers.
581.14
Surplus property transfer documents.
581.15
Unsuitable properties.
581.16
Compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and other related Acts (environmental impact).
581.17
No applications approved.
581.18
Utilization and enforcement.
581.19
Other uses.
581.20
Abrogation.
581.21
Compliance inspections and reports.
581.22
No right of administrative review for agency decisions.
581.23
Severability.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 11411 note; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
56 FR 23794, 23795, May 24, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 581.1
Definitions.
Applicant
means any eligible organization that has submitted an application to the Department of Health and Human Services to obtain use of a certain suitable property to assist the homeless.
Checklist or property checklist
means the form developed by HUD for use by landholding agencies to report the information to be used by HUD in making determinations of suitability.
Classification
means a property's designation as unutilized, underutilized, excess, or surplus.
Day
means one calendar day including weekends and holidays.
Eligible organization
means a State or local government agency, or a private, non-profit organization that provides assistance to the homeless, and that is authorized under the State law in which the property is located to carry out the activity for which it requests property and enter into an agreement with the Federal Government for use of property for the purposes of this part. Eligible organizations that are private, non-profit organizations interested in applying for suitable property must be tax exempt under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code at the time of application and remain tax exempt throughout the time the Federal Government retains a reversionary interest in the property.
Encumbrance
means any non-approved use by a transferee or a third party that limits the full utilization of the transferred property, regardless of time period, and includes liens, easements, restrictive covenants, licenses, leases, mortgages, informal agreements, and unaddressed trespass.
Excess property
means any property under the control of a Federal executive agency that the head of the agency determines is not required to meet the agency's needs or responsibilities, pursuant to 40 U.S.C. 524.
GSA
means the General Services Administration.
HHS
means the Department of Health and Human Services.
Homeless
is defined in 42 U.S.C. 11302. This term is synonymous with “homeless individual” and “homeless person.”
HUD
means the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
HUD website
means a website maintained by HUD providing information about HUD, including any successor websites or technologies that are equally accessible and available to the public.
Landholding agency
means the Federal department or agency with statutory authority to control property. For purposes of this part, the landholding agency is typically the Federal department or agency that had custody and accountability on behalf of the Federal
Government, of a certain piece of property at the time that such property was reported to HUD for a suitability determination pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 11411.
Lease
means an agreement in writing between either HHS for surplus property or landholding agencies for underutilized and unutilized properties and the applicant giving rise to the relationship of lessor and lessee for the use of Federal property for a term of at least one year under the conditions set forth in the lease document.
Non-profit organization
means an organization recognized as a non-profit by the State in which the organization operates, no part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor, or individual; that has a voluntary board; that has an accounting system or has designated an entity that will maintain a functioning accounting system for the organization in accordance with generally accepted accounting procedures; and that practices nondiscrimination in the provision of assistance.
Permit
means a license granted by a landholding agency to use unutilized or underutilized property for a specific amount of time, usually one year or less, under terms and conditions determined by the landholding agency. A permit does not grant to the recipient an estate in land or any interest in the property.
Property
means real property consisting of vacant land or buildings, or a portion thereof, that is excess, surplus, or designated as unutilized or underutilized in surveys by the heads of landholding agencies conducted pursuant to 40 U.S.C. 524.
Related personal property
means any personal property that is located on real property and is either an integral part of or useful in the operation of that property or is determined by GSA to be otherwise related to the property.
Representative of the homeless
means a State or local government agency, or private nonprofit organization which provides, or proposes to provide, services to the homeless.
Screen
means the process by which GSA surveys Federal executive agencies to determine if they have an interest in using excess Federal property to carry out a particular agency mission, and then surveys State, local, and non-profit entities, to determine if any such entity has an interest in using surplus Federal property to carry out a specific public use.
State
means a State of the United States, and includes the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the Territories and possessions of the United States.
Suitable property
means that HUD has determined that a certain property satisfies the criteria listed in § 581.6.
Surplus property
means any excess property not required by any Federal landholding agency for its needs or the discharge of its responsibilities, as determined by GSA.
Transfer document
means a lease, deed, or permit transferring surplus, unutilized, or underutilized property.
Transferee
means an eligible entity that acquires Federal property by lease, deed, or permit.
Underutilized
means an entire property or portion thereof, with or without improvements which is used only at irregular periods or intermittently by the accountable landholding agency for current program purposes of that agency, or which is used for current program purposes that can be satisfied with only a portion of the property.
Unsuitable property
means that HUD has determined that a particular property does not satisfy the criteria in § 581.6.
Unutilized property
means an entire property or portion thereof, with or without improvements, not occupied for current program purposes for the accountable executive agency or occupied in caretaker status only.
[56 FR 23794, 23795, May 24, 1991, as amended at 89 FR 89880, Nov. 13, 2024]
§ 581.2
Applicability.
(a) This part applies to Federal property that has been designated by Federal landholding agencies as unutilized, underutilized, excess, or surplus and is therefore subject to the provisions of Title V of the McKinney Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 11411).
(b) The following categories of properties are not subject to this part (regardless of whether they may be unutilized or underutilized):
(1) Buildings and property at military installations that were approved for closure under the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of Pub. L. 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note) after October 25, 1994.
(2) Machinery and equipment not determined to be related personal property by the landholding agency or GSA or determined to be related personal property that the landholding agency or GSA chooses to dispose of separate from real property.
(3) Government-owned, contractor-operated machinery, equipment, land, and other facilities reported excess for sale only to the using contractor and subject to a continuing military requirement.
(4) Properties subject to special legislation directing a particular action.
(5) Properties subject to a court order that is binding on the Federal Government and, for any reason, precludes transfer for use to assist the homeless under the authority of 42 U.S.C. 11411.
(6) Property not subject to Federal Real Property Council reporting requirements in accordance with 40 U.S.C. 623(i).
(7) Mineral rights interests independent of surface rights.
(8) Air space interests independent of surface rights.
(9) Indian Reservation land subject to 40 U.S.C. 523.
(10) Property interests subject to reversion.
(11) Easements.
(12) Any building or fixture that is excess, or surplus, that is on land under the control of a landholding agency, where the underlying land is not excess or surplus.
(13) Property purchased in whole or in part with Federal funds if title to the property is not held by a Federal landholding agency as defined in this part.
[89 FR 89881, Nov. 13, 2024]
§ 581.3
Collecting the information.
(a)
Canvass of landholding agencies.
On a quarterly basis, HUD will canvass each landholding agency to collect information about property described as unutilized, underutilized, excess or surplus in accordance with 40 U.S.C. 524; however, HUD will accept property information between canvasses. Each canvass will collect information on properties not previously reported, and about property reported previously where the status or classification of the property has changed, or improvements have been made to the property. HUD will request descriptive information on properties sufficient to make a reasonable determination, under the criteria described in this section, of the suitability of a property for use to assist the homeless. Landholding agencies must report property information to HUD using the property checklist developed by HUD for that purpose. Property checklists submitted in response to a canvass must be submitted to HUD within 25 days of receipt of the canvass.
(b)
Agency annual suitable property report.
By December 31 of each year, each landholding agency must notify HUD of the current availability status and classification of each property controlled by the agency that:
(1) Was included in a list of suitable properties published that year by HUD; and
(2) Remains available for application for use to assist the homeless or has become available for application during that year.
(c)
GSA inventory.
HUD will collect information, in the same manner as described in paragraph (a) of this section, from GSA regarding property that is in GSA's current inventory of excess or surplus property.
(d)
Change in status.
If the information provided on the property checklist changes subsequent to HUD's determination of suitability, including any improvements or other alterations to the physical condition of the land or the buildings on the property, and the property remains unutilized, underutilized, excess, or surplus, the landholding agency must submit a revised property checklist in response to the next quarterly canvass. HUD will review for suitability and, if it differs from the previous determination, repost the property information on the HUD website. For example, property
determined unsuitable due to extensive deterioration may have had improvements, or property determined suitable may subsequently be found to be extensively deteriorated.
[89 FR 89881, Nov. 13, 2024]
§ 581.4
Suitability determination.
(a)
Suitability determination.
Within 30 days after the receipt of a completed property checklist from landholding agencies either in response to a quarterly canvass, or between canvasses, HUD will determine, using the criteria set forth in § 581.6 whether a property is suitable for use to assist the homeless and report its determination to the landholding agency. Properties that are under lease, contract, license, or agreement by which a Federal agency retains a real property interest or which are scheduled to become unutilized or underutilized will be reviewed for suitability no earlier than six months prior to the expected date when the property will become unutilized or underutilized.
(b)
Scope of suitability.
HUD will determine the suitability of a property for use to assist the homeless without regard to any particular use.
(c)
Environmental information.
HUD will evaluate the environmental information contained in property checklists forwarded to HUD by the landholding agencies solely for the purpose of determining suitability of properties under the criteria in § 581.6.
(d)
Record of suitability determination.
HUD will assign an identification number to each property reviewed for suitability. HUD will maintain a public record of the following:
(1) The suitability determination for a particular piece of property, and the reasons for that determination; and
(2) The landholding agency's response to the determination pursuant to the requirements of § 581.7(a).
(e)
Property determined unsuitable.
Property that is reviewed by HUD under this section and that is determined unsuitable for use to assist the homeless may not be made available for any other purpose for 20 days after publication of a notice of unsuitability on the HUD website.
(f)
Procedures for appealing unsuitability determinations.
(1) To request review of a determination of unsuitability, a representative of the homeless must contact HUD, in writing, through the U.S. Mail, email, or the HUD website, or such other method as HUD may require, within 20 days of publication of the notice of unsuitability.
(2) Requests for review of a determination of unsuitability may be made only by representatives of the homeless.
(3) The request for review must specify the grounds on which it is based,
i.e.,
HUD has improperly applied the criteria or HUD has relied on incorrect or incomplete information in making the determination (
e.g.,
that property is in a floodplain but not in a floodway).
(4) Upon receipt of a request to review a determination of unsuitability, HUD will notify the landholding agency or GSA that such a request has been made. The landholding agency or GSA shall have 20 days from receipt of the notice from HUD, or an extended period agreed to between HUD and the landholding agency or GSA, to provide any information pertinent to the review. The landholding agency or GSA must refrain from initiating disposal procedures until HUD has completed its reconsideration regarding unsuitability. If the landholding agency or GSA fails to meet the deadline, HUD will move forward with the appeal review with the property information it already has and information submitted in the appeal request provided by the representative of the homeless.
(i) HUD will act on all requests for review within 30 days of receipt of the landholding agency's or GSA's response, or, if the landholding agency or GSA failed to meet the deadline, within 30 days of such deadline, and will notify the representative of the homeless and the landholding agency or GSA in writing of its decision.
(ii) If a property is determined suitable as a result of the review, HUD will request the landholding agency's or GSA's determination of availability pursuant to § 581.7, upon receipt of which HUD will promptly publish the determination on the HUD website.
[89 FR 89881, Nov. 13, 2024]
§ 581.5
Real property reported excess to GSA.
(a) Each landholding agency must submit a report to GSA of properties it determines excess. Each landholding agency must also provide a copy of HUD's suitability determination, if any, including HUD's identification number for the property.
(b) If a landholding agency reports an excess property to GSA that HUD has already determined to be suitable for use to assist the homeless, GSA will screen the property pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section and will advise HUD of the availability of the property for use by the homeless as provided in paragraph (e) of this section. In lieu of the preceding sentence, GSA may submit a new checklist to HUD and follow the procedures in paragraphs (c) through (h) of this section.
(c) If a landholding agency reports an excess property to GSA that has not been reviewed by HUD for homeless assistance suitability, GSA will complete a property checklist, based on information provided by the landholding agency, and will forward this checklist to HUD for a suitability determination. This checklist will reflect any change in classification, such as from unutilized or underutilized to excess or surplus.
(d) Within 30 days after GSA's submission, HUD will advise GSA of the suitability determination.
(e) When GSA receives notification from HUD listing suitable excess properties, GSA will transmit a response to HUD within 45 days regarding the availability of the property. GSA's response will include the following for each identified property:
(1) A statement that there is no other compelling Federal need for the property and, therefore, the property will be determined surplus; or
(2) A statement that there is further and compelling Federal need for the property (including a full explanation of such need) and that, therefore, the property is not presently available for use to assist the homeless.
(f) When GSA submits a checklist to HUD in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the information regarding the availability of the property, as specified in paragraph (e)(1) and (2) of this section, may be included with the checklist if it is known at the time of submittal.
(g) When a surplus property is determined as suitable, confirmed as available by GSA, and notice is published on the HUD website, GSA will concurrently notify HHS, State and local government units, and known homeless assistance providers that have expressed interest in the particular property, and other organizations, as appropriate, concerning suitable properties.
(h) Upon submission of a Report of Excess to GSA, GSA may screen the property for Federal use. In addition, GSA may screen State and local governmental units and eligible non-profit organizations to determine interest in the property in accordance with 41 CFR part 102-75. (See 41 CFR 102-75.1220, 102-75.255, and 102-75.350.)
(i) The landholding agency will retain custody and accountability and will protect and maintain any property that is reported excess to GSA as provided in 41 CFR 102-75.965.
[89 FR 89881, Nov. 13, 2024]
§ 581.6
Suitability criteria.
(a) In general, properties will be determined suitable unless a property's characteristics include one or more of the following conditions:
(1)
Flammable or explosive hazards.
Property located less than an acceptable separation distance (under the standards in 24 CFR part 51, subpart C, and the HUD Guidebook, “Siting of HUD-Assisted Projects Near Hazardous Facilities” or successor guidebook) from any stationary above-ground container or facility which stores, handles, or processes hazardous substances of an explosive or fire prone nature (excluding containers and facilities that are not hazards as defined in 24 CFR 51.201), unless HUD can determine during the review period based on information provided by the landholding agency that appropriate mitigating measures, as defined in 24 CFR 51.205, are already in place.
(2)
Coastal barriers.
Property located in a System Unit, as defined at 16 U.S.C. 3502(7), under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
).
(3)
Site safety conditions.
Property with a documented and extensive condition(s) that represents a clear threat to personal physical safety or health. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, significant contamination from hazardous substances, as defined by 42 U.S.C. 9601, periodic flooding, sinkholes, or landslides.
(b) In the cases in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, properties will be determined unsuitable, unless the landholding agencies provide information to enable HUD to determine the property is suitable:
(1)
Inaccessible.
Property that is inaccessible, meaning that the property is not accessible by road (including property on small offshore islands) or is landlocked (
e.g.,
can be reached only by crossing private property and there is no established right or means of entry).
(2)
National security.
Property located in an area to which the general public is denied access in the interest of national security (
e.g.,
where a special pass or security clearance is a condition of entry to the property), unless there is an alternative method to gain access without compromising national security.
(3)
Runway clear zones.
Property located within a runway clear zone or a military airfield clear zone.
(4)
Floodway.
Property located in a floodway, unless only an incidental portion of the property is in the floodway and that incidental portion does not affect the use of the remainder of the property to assist the homeless.
[89 FR 89881, Nov. 13, 2024]
§ 581.7
Determination of availability for suitable properties.
Within 45 days after receipt of notification from HUD pursuant to § 581.4(a) that a property has been determined to be suitable, each landholding agency or GSA must transmit to HUD a statement of one of the following:
(a) In the case of unutilized or underutilized property—
(1) An intention to declare the property excess;
(2) An intention to make the property available for use to assist the homeless; or
(3) The reasons why the property cannot be declared excess or made available for use to assist the homeless. The reasons given must be different from those listed as suitability criteria in § 581.6.
(b) In the case of excess property which has been reported to GSA—
(1) A statement that there is no compelling Federal need for the property, and, therefore, the property will be determined surplus; or
(2) A statement that there is a further and compelling Federal need for the property (including a full explanation of such need) and therefore, the property is not presently available for use to assist the homeless.
[89 FR 89881, Nov. 13, 2024]
§ 581.8
Public notice of determination.
(a) No later than 15 days after the most recent 45-day period has elapsed for receiving responses from the landholding agencies or GSA regarding availability, HUD will post on the HUD website a list of all properties reviewed, including a description of the property, its address, and classification. The following designations will be made:
(1) Properties that are suitable and available.
(2) Properties that are suitable and unavailable.
(3) Properties that are suitable and to be declared excess.
(4) Properties that are unsuitable.
(b) HUD will establish and maintain a toll-free number for the public to obtain specific information about properties in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) No later than 15 days after the most recent 45-day period has elapsed for receiving responses from the landholding agencies or GSA regarding availability, HUD will transmit to the United States Interagency Council on Homelessness (USICH) a copy of the list of all properties in paragraph (a) of this section. The USICH will immediately distribute to all State and regional homeless coordinators area-relevant portions of the list. The USICH will encourage the State and regional homeless coordinators to disseminate this information widely.
(d) No later than February 15 of each year, HUD will publish in the
Federal
Register
a list of all properties in the agency annual suitable property reports, reported to HUD pursuant to § 581.3(b).
(e) HUD will publish an annual list of properties determined suitable, but which agencies reported unavailable including the reasons such properties are not available.
[89 FR 89881, Nov. 13, 2024]
§ 581.9
General policies of HHS.
(a) It is the policy of HHS to foster and assure maximum utilization of surplus property for homeless assistance purposes.
(b) Transfers may be made only to eligible organizations.
(c) Property will be requested for assignment only when HUD has made a final determination that the property is suitable for use to assist the homeless, GSA has determined it is available, and HHS has determined it is needed for homeless assistance purposes. The amount of real and related personal property to be transferred shall not exceed normal operating requirements of the applicant. Such property will not be requested for assignment unless it is needed at the time of application for homeless assistance purposes or will be so needed within the immediate or foreseeable future.
(d) Transfers by deed will be made only after the applicant's financial plan is approved and the applicant provides certification that the proposed program is permissible under all applicable State and local zoning restrictions, building codes, and similar limitations.
(e) In instances of noncompliance, transferees are provided an opportunity to cure the noncompliance pursuant to 45 CFR 12a.10.
[89 FR 89881, Nov. 13, 2024]
§ 581.10
Expression of interest process.
(a) Properties published by HUD as suitable and available, pursuant to § 581.8, for application for use to assist the homeless shall not be available for any other purpose for a period of 30 days beginning on the date the list of properties is published on the HUD website. Any eligible organization interested in any underutilized, unutilized, excess, or surplus property for use to assist the homeless must send HHS a written expression of interest in that property within 30 days after the property has been published on the HUD website.
(b) Although a property may be determined suitable by HUD, HUD's determination does not mean a property is necessarily fit for use for the purpose(s) stated in the application, nor does it guarantee subsequent conveyance or transfer of a property.
(c) If a written expression of interest to apply for suitable property for use to assist the homeless is received by HHS within the 30-day holding period, such property may not be made available for any other purpose until the date HHS or the appropriate landholding agency has completed action on the application submitted pursuant to that expression of interest.
(d)(1) The expression of interest should identify the specific property, briefly describe the proposed use, include the name of the organization, and indicate whether it is a public body or a private, non-profit organization. The expression of interest must be sent to HHS by email,
rpb@psc.hhs.gov,
or by mail at the following address: Department of Health and Human Services, Program Manager, Federal Real Property Assistance Program, Real Estate Logistics and Operations, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20852.
(2) HHS will notify the landholding agency (for unutilized and underutilized properties) or GSA (for excess and surplus properties) when an expression of interest has been received for a certain property.
(e) An expression of interest may be sent to and accepted by HHS any time after the 30-day holding period has expired only if the property remains available as determined by GSA or the landholding agency for application to assist the homeless. In such a case, an application submitted pursuant to this expression of interest may be approved for use by the homeless if:
(1) There are no pending applications or written expressions of interest made under any law for use of the property for any purpose; and
(2) In the case of excess or surplus property, GSA has not received a bona fide offer to purchase that property or advertised for the sale of the property by public auction.
[89 FR 89881, Nov. 13, 2024]
§ 581.11
Application process and requirements.
(a) Upon receipt of an expression of interest, HHS will send an application packet to the interested entity. The application packet requires the applicant to provide certain information, including the following—
(1)
Acquisition type.
The applicant must state whether it is requesting acquisition of the property by lease, deed, or permit. A lease of one year, extendable at HHS's discretion, with the concurrence of GSA or the landholding agency, may be granted when the applicant's initial application is approved and the applicant's final application outlining the applicant's financial plan is found to be otherwise reasonable based on the criteria in paragraph (a)(7) of this section, but either a change in zoning is required or the financial plan proposes to utilize Low-Income Housing Tax Credits or other funding sources that typically take longer to process than other forms of financing. Applicants that initially apply for transfer by lease or permit and subsequently request transfer by deed will follow the same bifurcated application process, including deadlines, contained in 42 U.S.C. 11411. Should an applicant wish to transition from acquisition by lease to acquisition by deed, HHS will issue a letter of commitment to a lessee indicating that, provided its application meets all application criteria, including securing of all necessary financing that complies with Federal Government requirements, HHS will issue a deed.
(2)
Description of the applicant organization.
The applicant must document that it satisfies the definition of an
eligible organization
as specified in § 581.1.
(3)
Description of the property desired.
The applicant must describe the listed property desired, including existing zoning. Applicants must certify that any modification(s) made to and use of the property will conform to all applicable building codes, and local use restrictions, or similar limitations. In accordance with GSA policy, determinations regarding parcelization are made prior to screening. Therefore, expressions of interest and applications for portions of listed properties will not be accepted.
(4)
Description of the proposed program.
The applicant must fully describe the proposed program and plan of use, including implementation plans.
(5)
Demonstration of need.
The applicant must demonstrate that the property is needed for homeless assistance purposes at the time of application and how the program will address the needs of the homeless population to be assisted. The applicant must demonstrate that it has an immediate need and ability to utilize all of the property for which it is applying.
(6)
Demonstrate that the property is suitable and adaptable for the proposed program and plan of use.
The applicant must fully explain why the property is suitable and describe what, if any, modification(s) will be made to the property before the program becomes operational.
(7)
Ability to finance and operate the proposed program.
If the applicant's initial application is approved, the applicant must set forth a reasonable plan to finance the approved program within 45 days of the initial approval. To be considered reasonable, the plan must, at a minimum:
(i) Specifically describe all anticipated costs and sources of funding for the proposed program, including any property modifications;
(ii) Be accompanied by supporting documentation which demonstrates that the proposed plan is likely to succeed;
(iii) Demonstrate that the applicant is ready, willing, able, and authorized to assume care, custody, and maintenance of the property;
(iv) Demonstrate that it has secured the necessary dedicated funds, or will obtain such funds, to carry out the approved proposed program and plan of use for the property, including administrative expenses incident to the transfer by deed, lease, or permit;
(v) Not diminish the value of the Federal Government's interest in the property nor impair the Federal Government's ability to revert and immediately dispose of the property free of any and all liens, encumbrances, or anything else which renders the property unmarketable. Deed transfers will only be made after an applicant demonstrates its financial plan adequately protects the Federal Government's interest in the property; and
(vi) Neither subject the Federal Government's interest in the property to foreclosure nor impose obligations (
e.g.,
extended use agreements) on the Federal Government.
(8)
Compliance with non-discrimination requirements.
Each applicant under this part must certify in writing that it will comply with all requirements of Federal law and HHS policy, as amended, relating to non-discrimination, including the following: the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 100; and, as applicable, Executive Order 11063 (Equal Opportunity in Housing) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 107; Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d to d-4) (Non-discrimination in Federally Assisted Programs) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 1; section 1557 of the Affordable Care Act and implementing regulations at 45 CFR part 92; the prohibitions against discrimination on the basis of age under the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101-6107) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 146; and the prohibitions against discrimination against otherwise qualified individuals with disabilities under section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 8; and Titles II or III of the Americans with Disabilities Act and implementing regulations at 28 CFR part 35 or 36, as applicable. The applicant must maintain the required records to demonstrate compliance with all applicable Federal laws and HHS policies related to non-discrimination.
(9)
Insurance and indemnification.
The applicant must certify that it will insure the property against loss, damage, or destruction to protect the residual financial interest of the United States. The United States shall be named as an additional insured. Applicants must provide proof of insurance annually or upon request. Failure to maintain sufficient insurance may result in adverse action, including reversion of the property, at the discretion of HHS. In the event of a covered loss, the transferee must hold all insurance proceeds in trust and obtain written concurrence from HHS before disbursing the funds. Applicants, and all affiliated parties utilizing the property, as approved by HHS, must indemnify the United States and hold the United States harmless for all actions involving use of the property.
(10)
Historic preservation.
Where applicable, the applicant must provide information that will enable HHS to comply with Federal historic preservation requirements.
(11)
Environmental information.
The applicant must provide sufficient information to allow HHS to analyze the potential impact of the applicant's proposal on the environment, in accordance with the instructions provided with the application packet. HHS will assist applicants in obtaining any pertinent environmental information in the possession of HUD, GSA, or the landholding agency. However, the burden is on the applicant to submit sufficient documentation for analysis by HHS.
(12)
Local government notification.
The applicant must certify that it has notified the applicable unit of general local government responsible for sewer, water, police, and fire services, in writing, of its proposed program for the specific property and submit a copy of that written notification.
(13)
Zoning and local use restrictions.
An applicant requesting a deed must certify that it has consulted all State and local governmental entities that will have jurisdiction over the property and that the proposed use will comply with all applicable zoning and local use restrictions, including local building code requirements. An applicant that applies for a lease or permit is not required to comply with local zoning requirements, as long as the Federal Government retains ownership of the property. Deed transfers will only be made after the applicant has provided
acceptable written proof that the proposed program is not in conflict with State or local zoning laws and restrictions, building codes, or similar limitations.
(b)
Scope of evaluations.
Due to the short time frame imposed by statute for evaluating applications, HHS's evaluation will, generally, be limited to the information contained in the application. It is therefore incumbent on applicants to provide thorough and complete applications.
(c)
Deadline for initial application.
An initial application must be received by HHS, at the email address in § 581.10(d)(1) or other address indicated by HHS, within 75 days after an expression of interest is received from a particular applicant for that property. Upon written request from the applicant, HHS may, in its discretion, grant extensions authorized by 42 U.S.C. 11411(e)(2)(A), provided that the appropriate landholding agency or GSA concurs with the extension.
(d)
Evaluation of initial application.
(1) Upon receipt of an initial application, HHS will review it for completeness, and, if incomplete and time permits, may, in its discretion, return it or ask the applicant to furnish any missing or additional required information prior to final evaluation of the initial application.
(2) HHS will evaluate each initial application within 10 days of receipt and will promptly advise the applicant of its decision. All initial applications will be reviewed on the basis of the following elements:
(i)
Services offered.
The extent and range of proposed services, such as meals, shelter, job training, and counseling.
(ii)
Need.
The demand for the program, the program's ability to satisfy unmet needs of the community, and the degree to which the available property will be fully utilized.
(iii)
Experience.
Demonstrated ability to provide the services, such as prior success in operating similar programs and recommendations attesting to that fact by Federal, State, and local authorities.
(e)
Deadline and evaluation of final application.
(1) If HHS approves an initial application, HHS will notify the applicant and provide the applicant 45 days in which to provide a final application. The final application shall set forth a reasonable plan to finance, as specified in paragraph (a)(7) of this section, the approved program as set forth in the initial application. Applicants may not modify the approved initial application within its final application proposal.
(2) Upon receipt of the final application, HHS will make a determination within 15 days and notify the applicant.
(3) Unlike with initial applications, requests for extensions are not authorized by 42 U.S.C. 11411 and thus will not be considered for final applications.
(4) Applications are evaluated on a first-come, first-served basis. HHS will notify all organizations that have submitted expressions of interest for a particular property whether an earlier application received for that property has been approved.
(f)
Competing applications.
If HHS receives more than one final application simultaneously, HHS will evaluate all applications and make a determination based on each application's merit. HHS will rank approved applications based on the elements listed in paragraph (a) of this section, and notify the landholding agency, or GSA, as appropriate, of the approved applicant.
[89 FR 89881, Nov. 13, 2024]
§ 581.12
Action on approved applications.
(a)
Unutilized and underutilized properties.
(1) When HHS approves an application, it will so notify the applicant and forward a copy of the application to the landholding agency. The landholding agency will execute the lease, or permit document, as appropriate, in consultation with the applicant.
(2) The landholding agency maintains the discretion to decide the following:
(i) The length of time the property will be available.
(ii) The terms and conditions of the lease or permit document (except that a landholding agency may not charge any fees or impose any costs).
(b)
Excess and surplus properties.
(1) When HHS approves an application, it will so notify the applicant and request that GSA assign the property to HHS for transfer. Requests to GSA for the
assignment of surplus property to HHS for homeless assistance purposes will be based on the following conditions:
(i) HHS has a fully approved application for the property;
(ii) The applicant is able, willing, and authorized to assume immediate care, custody, and maintenance of the property;
(iii) The applicant is able, willing and authorized to pay the administrative expenses incident to the transfer; and
(iv) The applicant has secured the necessary funds, or had demonstrated the ability to obtain such funds, to carry out the approved program of use of the property.
(2) Upon receipt of an acceptable assignment, HHS will execute the transfer document in accordance with the procedures and requirements set out in this part and any other terms and conditions HHS and GSA determine are appropriate or necessary. Custody and accountability of the property will remain throughout the lease term with the landholding agency (
i.e.,
the agency which initially reported the property as excess) and throughout the deed term with the transferee.
(3) Prior to assignment to HHS, GSA may consider other Federal uses and other important national needs in deciding the disposition of surplus property. Priority of consideration will normally be given to uses to assist the homeless. However, both GSA and HHS may consider any competing request for the property made under 40 U.S.C. 550 that is so meritorious and compelling that it outweighs the needs of the homeless.
(4) Whenever GSA or HHS decides in favor of a competing request over a request for property for homeless assistance, the agency making the decision will transmit to the appropriate committees of Congress an explanatory statement which details the need satisfied by conveyance of the surplus property, and the reasons for determining that such need was so meritorious and compelling as to outweigh the needs of the homeless.
[89 FR 89881, Nov. 13, 2024]
§ 581.13
Waivers.
The Secretary may waive any requirement of this part that is not required by law, whenever it is determined that undue hardship would result from applying the requirement, or where application of the requirement would adversely affect the purposes of the program. Each waiver will be in writing and will be supported by documentation of the pertinent facts and grounds. The Secretary periodically will publish notice of granted waivers in the
Federal Register.
§ 581.14
Surplus property transfer documents.
(a) Surplus property may be conveyed to eligible organizations pursuant to 40 U.S.C. 550(d) and 42 U.S.C. 11411, as amended, by lease or deed, at the applicant's discretion.
(b) Transfers of surplus property for homeless assistance purposes are in exchange for the transferee's agreement to fully utilize the property for homeless assistance purposes in accordance with the terms specified in the transfer document.
(c) A transfer of surplus property for homeless assistance purposes is subject to the disapproval of GSA within 30 days after notice is given to GSA of the proposed transfer.
(d) Surplus property transferred pursuant to this part will be disposed on an “as is, where is” basis without warranty of any kind except as may be stated in the transfer document.
(e) Unless excepted by GSA in its assignment, the disposal of property includes mineral rights associated with the surface estate.
(f) Transfers of surplus property under this part will be made with the following general terms and conditions:
(1) For the period provided in the transfer document, the transferee shall utilize all the surplus property it receives solely and continuously for the approved program and plan of use, in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 11411 and this part, except that:
(i) The transferee has 12 months from the date of transfer to place the surplus property into use, if HHS did not approve in writing, construction of new facilities or major renovation of the property when it approved the final application;
(ii) The transferee has 48 months from the date of transfer to place the
surplus property into use, if the transferee proposes construction of new facilities or major renovation of the property and HHS approves it in writing at the time it approves the final application;
(iii) If the applicable time limitation is not met, the transferee shall either commence payments in cash to the Federal Government for each month thereafter during which the proposed use has not been implemented or take such other action as set forth at § 581.18 as is deemed appropriate by HHS. Such monthly payments shall be computed on the basis of the current fair market value of the property, as conveyed, at the time of the first payment and dividing it by 360 months. At HHS's discretion, the payment may be waived if the transferee makes a sufficient showing of continued progress to place the property into use or if an unforeseeable event occurs which prevents the property from being put into use within the applicable timeframe; and
(iv) HHS may permit use of surplus property at any time during the period of restriction by an entity other than the transferee in accordance with § 581.19.
(2) The transferee will not be permitted to encumber, or dispose of the property, or impair full utilization thereof, without the prior written authorization of HHS. In the event the property is encumbered, sold, or disposed of, or is used for any purposes other than those set forth in an approved plan without the written consent of HHS, all revenues or the reasonable value of other benefits received by the transferee directly or indirectly from such use, as determined by HHS, will be considered to have been received and held in trust by the transferee for the account of the United States and will be subject to the direction and control of HHS. The provisions of this paragraph (f)(2) shall not impair or affect the rights reserved to the United States in paragraph (f)(8) of this section, or the right of HHS to impose conditions to its consent.
(3) The transferee will file with HHS such reports on its maintenance and use of the transferred property and any other reports or information deemed necessary by HHS.
(4) The transferee shall pay all administrative costs incidental to the transfer, including but not limited to—transfer taxes; surveys; appraisals; title searches; the transferee's legal fees; and recordation expenses. Transferee is solely responsible for such costs and may not seek reimbursement from the Federal Government for any reason.
(5) The transferee shall protect, preserve, maintain, and repair the property to ensure that the property remains in as good a condition as when received.
(6) The transferee shall protect the residual financial interest of the United States in the surplus property by insurance or such other means as HHS directs.
(7) The transferee shall abide by all applicable Federal civil rights laws including those specified in the covenants and conditions contained in the transfer document, prohibiting the transferee from discriminating on the basis of, including but not limited to, race, color, national origin, religion, sex, familial status, or disability in the use of the property.
(8) In the event of noncompliance with any conditions of the deed as determined by HHS, whether caused by the legal or other inability of the transferee, its successors and assigns, to perform any of the obligations of the transfer document, the Federal Government has an immediate right of reentry thereon, and to cause all right, title, and interest in and to the property to revert to the United States, and the transferee shall forfeit all right, title, and interest in and to the property. In such event, transferee shall execute a quitclaim deed and take all other actions necessary to return the property to the United States within ninety (90) days of a written request from the Federal Government, extended only at the discretion of the Federal Government. Transferee shall cooperate with the United States in the event of a reversion and agrees that the United States need not seek judicial intervention before exercising its right to revert, reenter, and reconvey the property.
(9) In the event title is reverted to the United States for noncompliance or
voluntarily reconveyed to the United States, the transferee shall, at the option of HHS, be required to: reimburse the United States for the decrease in value of the property not due to market conditions, reasonable wear and tear, acts of God, or approved alterations completed by the transferee to adapt the property to the homeless use for which the property was transferred; and reimburse the United States for any costs incurred in reverting title to or possession of the property, including reasonable attorneys' fees.
(10) With respect to leased property, in the event of noncompliance with any of the conditions of the lease, as determined by HHS or the landholding agency, the right of occupancy and possession shall, at the option of HHS or the landholding agency, be terminated. In the event a leasehold is terminated by the United States for noncompliance or is voluntarily surrendered, the lessee shall be required, at the option of HHS, to reimburse the United States for the decrease in value of the property not due to market conditions, reasonable wear and tear, acts of God, or approved alterations completed by the lessee to adapt the property to the homeless use for which the property was leased. With respect to any termination of leasehold resulting from noncompliance, the United States, shall, in addition thereto, be reimbursed for such costs as may be incurred in recovering possession of the property, including reasonable attorneys' fees.
(11) Any other term or condition that HHS and GSA determine appropriate or necessary.
(12) With respect to surplus property transferred by deed, the terms and conditions including those in this paragraph (f), apply for a period of three hundred sixty (360) months of use in accordance with a program of use approved in writing by HHS. The three hundred sixty months (360) period may, in HHS's sole discretion, be extended or restarted in the event the property is not fully utilized or is retransferred to a successor entity. Expiration of the terms and conditions in this paragraph (f) does not release the transferee from continuing compliance, as appropriate, with any conditions that may run with the land,
e.g.,
environmental conditions and/or historic preservation covenants. Such conditions will continue to be the responsibility of the transferee and successors.
(13) With respect to surplus property transferred by lease, the terms and conditions including those in this paragraph (f), extend for the entire initial lease and for any subsequent renewal periods, unless specifically excluded in writing by HHS.
(g) Related personal property may be transferred or leased as a part of the realty and in accordance with real property procedures.
(h) Transferees will be responsible for the protection and maintenance of the property during the time that they possess the property. Upon termination of the lease term or reversion of title to the United States, the transferee will be responsible for removing improvements made to the property if directed to by the United States and, in such event, will be responsible for restoration of the property or the costs associated with restoring the property. If improvements made by the transferee are not voluntarily removed by the transferee and the United States consents, they will become the property of the United States. If the United States does not consent, the transferee shall reimburse the United States for reasonable costs of removal. GSA or the landholding agency, as appropriate, will assume responsibility for protection and maintenance of a property when the lease terminates or title reverts.
(i) Transferees, by obtaining the written consent of HHS, may abrogate the restrictions set forth in paragraph (f) of this section for all or any portion of the property in accordance with the provisions of § 581.20.
[89 FR 89886, Nov. 13, 2024]
§ 581.15
Unsuitable properties.
The landholding agency or GSA will defer action to dispose of properties determined unsuitable for homeless assistance for 20 days after the date that notice of a property is posted on the HUD website. HUD will inform landholding agencies or GSA if an appeal of an unsuitability determination is filed by a representative of the homeless pursuant to § 581.4(f). HUD will advise
the agency to refrain from initiating disposal procedures until HUD has completed its reconsideration process regarding unsuitability. Thereafter, or if no appeal has been filed after 20 days, GSA or the appropriate landholding agency may proceed with disposal action in accordance with applicable law.
[89 FR 89886, Nov. 13, 2024]
§ 581.16
Compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and other related Acts (environmental impact).
(a) HHS, prior to making a final decision to convey or lease, or to amend, reform, or grant an approval or release with respect to a previous conveyance or lease of, surplus property for homeless purposes, will act in accordance with applicable provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, the National Archeological Data Preservation Act, and other related acts. No lease to use surplus property shall allow the lessee to make, or cause to be made, any irreversible change in the conditions of said property, and no lease shall be employed for the purpose of delaying or avoiding compliance with the requirements of these Acts, unless approved by the United States.
(b) Applicants shall be required to provide such information as HHS deems necessary to make an assessment of the impact of the proposed Federal action on the human environment. Materials contained in the applicant's official request, responses to a standard questionnaire prescribed by HHS, as well as other relevant information, will be used by HHS in making said assessment.
(c) If the assessment reveals:
(1) That the proposed Federal action involved properties of historical significance which are listed, or eligible for listing, in the National Register of Historic Places; or
(2) That a more than insignificant impact on the human environment is reasonably foreseeable as a result of the proposed action; or
(3) That the proposed Federal action could result in irreparable loss or destruction of archeologically significant items or data, HHS will, except as provided for in paragraph (d) of this section, prepare and distribute, or cause to be prepared or distributed, such notices and statements and obtain such approvals as are required by the Acts cited in paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) If a proposed action involves other Federal agencies in a sequence of actions, or a group of actions, directly related to each other because of their functional interdependence, HHS may enter into and support a lead agency agreement to designate a single lead agency which will assume primary responsibility for coordinating the assessment of environmental effects of proposed Federal actions, preparing and distributing such notices and statements, or obtaining such approvals, as are required by the Acts cited in paragraph (a) of this section. The procedures of the designated lead agency will be utilized in conducting the environmental assessment. In the event of disagreement between HHS and another Federal agency, HHS will reserve the right to abrogate the lead agency agreement with the other Federal agency.
[89 FR 89886, Nov. 13, 2024]
§ 581.17
No applications approved.
(a) At the end of the 30-day holding period described in § 581.10(a), HHS will notify GSA, or the landholding agency, as appropriate, if an expression of interest has been received for a certain property. Where there is no expression of interest, GSA or the landholding agency, as appropriate, will proceed with disposal in accordance with applicable law.
(b) Upon notice from HHS that all applications have been disapproved, or if no initial applications have been received within 75 days after an expression of interest, or no final application has been received within 45 days after an approved initial application, disposal may proceed in accordance with applicable law.
[89 FR 89886, Nov. 13, 2024]
§ 581.18
Utilization and enforcement.
(a)
Sanctions.
For instances of noncompliance relating to surplus property transfers, HHS may impose, after providing an opportunity to cure to the
transferee, any or all of the following sanctions in its sole discretion, as applicable:
(1) Where property or any portion thereof was not used or is not being used for the purposes for which transferred, or is sold, leased or subleased, encumbered, disposed of, or used for purposes other than those in the approved program and plan of use, without the prior written consent of HHS, HHS may require the transferee to—
(i) Place the property into immediate use for an approved purpose and extend the period of restriction in the transfer document for an additional term as determined by HHS;
(ii) Hold in trust all revenues and the reasonable value of other benefits received by the transferee directly or indirectly from that use for the United States subject to the direction and control of HHS;
(iii) Return title to such property to the United States or to relinquish any leasehold interest therein;
(iv) Abrogate the conditions and restrictions of the transfer, as set forth in § 581.20;
(v) Make cash payments to the United States, as directed by HHS, equivalent to the current fair market rental value of the surplus property, as transferred, for each month during which the program and plan of use has not been implemented and continues to not be implemented; or
(vi) Any other remedy that HHS determines appropriate or necessary.
(2) Where the transferee desires to place the property into temporary use to assist the homeless other than that for which the property was transferred, written approval from HHS must be obtained, and will be conditioned upon HHS's authority to permit the use and such terms as HHS may impose.
(3) If HHS or the landholding agency determines that a lessee or sublessee of a transferee is in noncompliance with a term or condition of the lease, or if the lessee voluntarily surrenders the premises, HHS may require termination of the lease and impose sanctions described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, as appropriate.
(b)
Reversion.
When HHS recommends reversion of the property for noncompliance, HHS will seek GSA's concurrence. GSA will respond to HHS's concurrence request within 30 days of its receipt. If GSA concurs, GSA will work with HHS to complete the reversion of the property. If GSA does not concur to the reversion recommendation, GSA will issue, to HHS, a written determination: stating the reason(s) for the disapproval; and acknowledging that HHS has recommended reversion and, therefore, the property is no longer within HHS's Title V program. The Federal Government will implement a response to the noncompliance that is in its best interests.
[89 FR 89886, Nov. 13, 2024]
§ 581.19
Other uses.
(a) A transferee may permit the use of all or a portion of the surplus property by another eligible entity as described in § 581.1 for homeless assistance purposes, only upon those terms and conditions HHS determines appropriate, if:
(1) The transferee submits a written request to HHS explaining the purpose of and need for another eligible entity's use of the property, program plan, and other relevant information requested by HHS;
(2) HHS determines that the proposed use would not substantially limit the program and plan of use by the transferee and that the use will not unduly burden the Federal Government;
(3) HHS's written consent is obtained by the transferee in advance;
(4) HHS approves the use instrument in advance and in writing;
(5) The transferee agrees to lengthen the period of restrictions as determined by HHS; and
(6) HHS advises GSA and there is no disapproval by GSA within thirty (30) days.
(b) A transferee that does not follow paragraph (a) of this section will be deemed to be not in compliance with the terms and conditions of the Title V program and subject to enforcement action, including reversion of the property.
[89 FR 89886, Nov. 13, 2024]
§ 581.20
Abrogation.
(a) HHS may abrogate the conditions and restrictions in the transfer document if:
(1) The transferee submits to HHS a written request that HHS abrogate the conditions and restrictions in the transfer document as to all or any portion of the surplus property;
(2) HHS determines the terms and conditions of the proposed abrogation and determines that the proposed abrogation is in the best interest of the United States; and
(3) HHS transmits the abrogation request to GSA and there is no disapproval by GSA within 30 days after notice is given. If GSA disapproves, GSA will state, in writing, to HHS the reason(s) for the disapproval.
(b) HHS abrogates the conditions and restrictions in the transfer document only upon receipt of the appropriate consideration, including cash payment, to the United States, as directed by HHS, which is based on the formula contained in the transfer document, and any other terms and conditions HHS deems appropriate to protect the interest of the United States.
[89 FR 89886, Nov. 13, 2024]
§ 581.21
Compliance inspections and reports.
Transferees are required to allow HHS to conduct compliance inspections and to submit such compliance reports and actions as are deemed necessary by HHS. At a minimum, the transferee will be required to submit an annual utilization report regarding the operation and maintenance of the property, including current images of the entire property and such information as HHS shall require.
[89 FR 89886, Nov. 13, 2024]
§ 581.22
No right of administrative review for agency decisions.
There is no right to administrative review within HHS, including requests for reconsideration or appeal, of agency decisions on applications and other discretionary decisions.
[89 FR 89886, Nov. 13, 2024]
§ 581.23
Severability.
Any provision of this part held to be invalid or unenforceable with respect to certain parties or circumstances shall be construed so as to continue to give the maximum effect to the provision permitted by law unless such holding is that the provision of this part is invalid and unenforceable in all circumstances, in which event the provision shall be severable from the remainder of this part and shall not affect the remainder thereof.
[89 FR 89886, Nov. 13, 2024]
Pt. 582

# PART 582—SHELTER PLUS CARE

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
582.1
Purpose and scope.
582.5
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Assistance Provided
582.100
Program component descriptions.
582.105
Rental assistance amounts and payments.
582.110
Matching requirements.
582.115
Limitations on assistance.
582.120
Consolidated plan.

# Subpart C—Application and Grant Award
582.200
Application and grant award.
582.230
Environmental review.

# Subpart D—Program Requirements
582.300
General operation.
582.301
Recordkeeping.
582.305
Housing quality standards; rent reasonableness.
582.310
Resident rent.
582.315
Occupancy agreements.
582.320
Termination of assistance to participants.
582.325
Outreach activities.
582.330
Nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements.
582.335
Displacement, relocation, and real property acquisition.
582.340
Other Federal requirements.

# Subpart E—Administration
582.400
Grant agreement.
582.405
Program changes.
582.410
Obligation and deobligation of funds.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3535(d) and 11403-11407b.

# Source:
58 FR 13892, Mar. 15, 1993, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 582.1
Purpose and scope.
(a)
General.
The Shelter Plus Care program (S+C) is authorized by title IV, subtitle F, of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (the McKinney Act) (42 U.S.C. 11403-11407b). S+C is designed to link rental assistance to supportive services for hard-to-serve homeless persons with disabilities (primarily those who are seriously mentally ill; have chronic problems with alcohol, drugs, or both; or have acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and related diseases) and their families. The program provides grants to be used for rental assistance for permanent housing for homeless persons with disabilities. Rental assistance grants must be matched in the aggregate by supportive services that are equal in value to the amount of rental assistance and appropriate to the needs of the population to be served. Recipients are chosen on a competitive basis nationwide.
(b)
Components.
Rental assistance is provided through four components described in § 582.100. Applicants may apply for assistance under any one of the four components, or a combination.
[58 FR 13892, Mar. 15, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 51169, Sept. 30, 1996; 80 FR 75804, Dec. 4, 2015]
§ 582.5
Definitions.
The terms
Fair Market Rent (FMR), HUD, Public Housing Agency (PHA), Indian Housing Authority (IHA),
and
Secretary
are defined in 24 CFR part 5.
As used in this part:
Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and related diseases
has the meaning given in section 853 of the AIDS Housing Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 12902).
Applicant
has the meaning given in section 462 of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11403g).
Developmental disability
means, as defined in section 102 of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 15002):
(1) A severe, chronic disability of an individual that—
(i) Is attributable to a mental or physical impairment or combination of mental and physical impairments;
(ii) Is manifested before the individual attains age 22;
(iii) Is likely to continue indefinitely;
(iv) Results in substantial functional limitations in three or more of the following areas of major life activity:
(A) Self-care;
(B) Receptive and expressive language;
(C) Learning;
(D) Mobility;
(E) Self-direction;
(F) Capacity for independent living;
(G) Economic self-sufficiency; and
(v) Reflects the individual's need for a combination and sequence of special, interdisciplinary, or generic services, individualized supports, or other forms of assistance that are of lifelong or extended duration and are individually planned and coordinated.
(2) An individual from birth to age 9, inclusive, who has a substantial developmental delay or specific congenital or acquired condition, may be considered to have a developmental disability without meeting three or more of the criteria described in paragraphs (1)(i) through (v) of the definition of “developmental disability” in this section if the individual, without services and supports, has a high probability of meeting those criteria later in life.
Eligible person
means a homeless person with disabilities (primarily persons who are seriously mentally ill; have chronic problems with alcohol, drugs, or both; or have AIDS and related diseases) and, if also homeless, the family of such a person. To be eligible for assistance, persons must be very low income, except that low-income individuals may be assisted under the SRO component in accordance with 24 CFR 813.105(b).
Homeless
means:
(1) An individual or family who lacks a fixed, regular, and adequate nighttime residence, meaning:
(i) An individual or family with a primary nighttime residence that is a public or private place not designed for or ordinarily used as a regular sleeping accommodation for human beings, including a car, park, abandoned building, bus or train station, airport, or camping ground;
(ii) An individual or family living in a supervised publicly or privately operated shelter designated to provide temporary living arrangements (including congregate shelters, transitional housing, and hotels and motels paid for by charitable organizations or by federal, state, or local government programs for low-income individuals); or
(iii) An individual who is exiting an institution where he or she resided for 90 days or less and who resided in an emergency shelter or place not meant for human habitation immediately before entering that institution;
(2) An individual or family who will imminently lose their primary nighttime residence, provided that:
(i) The primary nighttime residence will be lost within 14 days of the date of application for homeless assistance;
(ii) No subsequent residence has been identified; and
(iii) The individual or family lacks the resources or support networks, e.g., family, friends, faith-based or other social networks, needed to obtain other permanent housing;
(3) Unaccompanied youth under 25 years of age, or families with children and youth, who do not otherwise qualify as homeless under this definition, but who:
(i) Are defined as homeless under section 387 of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5732a), section 637 of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9832), section 41403 of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 14043e-2), section 330(h) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254b(h)), section 3 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2012), section 17(b) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786(b)), or section 725 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11434a);
(ii) Have not had a lease, ownership interest, or occupancy agreement in permanent housing at any time during the 60 days immediately preceding the date of application for homeless assistance;
(iii) Have experienced persistent instability as measured by two moves or more during the 60-day period immediately preceding the date of applying for homeless assistance; and
(iv) Can be expected to continue in such status for an extended period of time because of chronic disabilities; chronic physical health or mental health conditions; substance addiction; histories of domestic violence or childhood abuse (including neglect); the presence of a child or youth with a disability; or two or more barriers to employment, which include the lack of a high school degree or General Education Development (GED), illiteracy, low English proficiency, a history of incarceration or detention for criminal activity, and a history of unstable employment; or
(4) Any individual or family who:
(i) Is fleeing, or is attempting to flee, domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, or other dangerous or life-threatening conditions that relate to violence against the individual or a family member, including a child, that has either taken place within the individual's or family's primary nighttime residence or has made the individual or family afraid to return to their primary nighttime residence;
(ii) Has no other residence; and
(iii) Lacks the resources or support networks, e.g., family, friends, and faith-based or other social networks, to obtain other permanent housing.
Indian tribe
has the meaning given in section 102 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302).
Low-income
means an annual income not in excess of 80 percent of the median income for the area, as determined by HUD. HUD may establish income limits higher or lower than 80 percent of the median income for the area on the basis of its finding that such variations are necessary because of the prevailing levels of construction costs or unusually high or low family incomes.
Nonprofit organization
has the meaning given in section 104 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12704). The term nonprofit organization also includes a community mental health center established as a public nonprofit organization.
Participant
means an eligible person who has been selected to participate in S+C.
Person with disabilities
means a household composed of one or more persons at least one of whom is an adult who has a disability.
(1) A person shall be considered to have a disability if he or she has a disability that:
(i) Is expected to be long-continuing or of indefinite duration;
(ii) Substantially impedes the individual's ability to live independently;
(iii) Could be improved by the provision of more suitable housing conditions; and
(iv) Is a physical, mental, or emotional impairment, including an impairment caused by alcohol or drug abuse, post-traumatic stress disorder, or brain injury.
(2) A person will also be considered to have a disability if he or she has a developmental disability, as defined in this section.
(3) A person will also be considered to have a disability if he or she has acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) or any conditions arising from the etiologic agent for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, including infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
(4) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this definition, the term person with disabilities includes, except in the case of the SRO component, two or more persons with disabilities living together, one or more such persons living with another person who is determined to be important to their care or well-being, and the surviving member or members of any household described in the first sentence of this definition who were living, in a unit assisted under this part, with the deceased member of the household at the time of his or her death. (In any event, with respect to the surviving member or members of a household, the right to rental assistance under this part will terminate at the end of the grant period under which the deceased member was a participant.)
Recipient
means an applicant approved to receive a S+C grant.
Seriously mentally ill
has the meaning given in section 462 of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11403g).
Single room occupancy (SRO)
housing means a unit for occupancy by one person, which need not but may contain food preparation or sanitary facilities, or both.
Sponsor
means a nonprofit organization which owns or leases dwelling units and has contracts with a recipient to make such units available to eligible homeless persons and receives rental assistance payments under the SRA component.
State
has the meaning given in section 462 of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11403g).
Supportive service provider,
or
service provider,
means a person or organization licensed or otherwise qualified to provide supportive services, either for profit or not for profit.
Supportive services
means assistance that—
(1) Addresses the special needs of eligible persons; and
(2) Provides appropriate services or assists such persons in obtaining appropriate services, including health care, mental health treatment, alcohol and other substance abuse services, child care services, case management services, counseling, supervision, education, job training, and other services essential for achieving and maintaining independent living.
(Inpatient acute hospital care does not qualify as a supportive service.).
Unit of general local government
has the meaning given in section 102 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302).
Very low-income
means an annual income not in excess of 50 percent of the median income for the area, as determined by HUD, with adjustments for smaller and larger families. HUD may establish income limits higher or lower than 50 percent of the median income for the area on the basis of its finding that such variations are necessary because of unusually high or low family incomes.
[61 FR 51169, Sept. 30, 1996; 62 FR 13539, Mar. 21, 1997; 76 FR 76014, Dec. 5, 2011]

# Subpart B—Assistance Provided
§ 582.100
Program component descriptions.
(a)
Tenant-based rental assistance (TRA).
Tenant-based rental assistance
provides grants for rental assistance which permit participants to choose housing of an appropriate size in which to reside. Participants retain the rental assistance if they move. Where necessary to facilitate the coordination of supportive services, grant recipients may require participants to live in a specific area for their entire period of participation or in a specific structure for the first year and in a specific area for the remainder of their period of participation. Recipients may not define the area in a way that violates the Fair Housing Act or the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. The term of the grant between HUD and the grant recipient for TRA is five years.
(b)
Project-based rental assistance (PRA).
Project-based rental assistance provides grants for rental assistance to the owner of an existing structure, where the owner agrees to lease the subsidized units to participants. Participants do not retain rental assistance if they move. Rental subsidies are provided to the owner for a period of either five or ten years. To qualify for ten years of rental subsidies, the owner must complete at least $3,000 of eligible rehabilitation for each unit (including the unit's prorated share of work to be accomplished on common areas or systems), to make the structure decent, safe and sanitary. This rehabilitation must be completed with in 12 months of the grant award.
(c)
Sponsor-based rental assistance (SRA).
Sponsor-based rental assistance provides grants for rental assistance through contracts between the grant recipient and sponsor organizations. A sponsor may be a private, nonprofit organization or a community mental health agency established as a public nonprofit organization. Participants reside in housing owned or leased by the sponsor. The term of the grant between HUD and the grant recipient for SRA is five years.
(d)
Moderate rehabilitation for single room occupancy dwellings (SRO).
(1) The SRO component provides grants for rental assistance in connection with the moderate rehabilitation of single room occupancy housing units. Resources to initially fund the cost of rehabilitating the dwellings must be obtained from other sources. However, the rental assistance covers operating expenses of the rehabilitated SRO units occupied by homeless persons, including debt service to retire the cost of the moderate rehabilitation over a ten-year period.
(2) SRO housing must be in need of moderate rehabilitation and must meet the requirements of 24 CFR 882.803(a). Costs associated with rehabilitation of common areas may be included in the calculation of the cost for assisted units based on the proportion of the number of units to be assisted under this part to the total number of units.
(3) SRO assistance may also be used for efficiency units selected for rehabilitation under this program, but the gross rent (contract rent plus any utility allowance) for those units will be no higher than for SRO units (i.e., 75 percent of the 0-bedroom Moderate Rehabilitation Fair Market Rent).
(4) The requirements regarding maintenance, operation, and inspections described in 24 CFR 882.806(b)(4) and 882.808(n) must be met.
(5)
Governing regulations.
Except where there is a conflict with any requirement under this part or where specifically provided, the SRO component will be governed by the regulations set forth in 24 CFR part 882, subpart H.
§ 582.105
Rental assistance amounts and payments.
(a)
Eligible activity.
S+C grants may be used for providing rental assistance for housing occupied by participants in the program and administrative costs as provided for in paragraph (e) of this section, except that the housing may not be currently receiving Federal funding for rental assistance or operating costs under other HUD programs. Recipients may design a housing program that includes a range of housing types with differing levels of supportive services. Rental assistance may include security deposits on units in an amount up to one month's rent.
(b)
Amount of the grant.
The amount of the grant is based on the number and size of units proposed by the applicant to be assisted over the grant period. The grant amount is calculated by multiplying the number of units proposed times the applicable Fair
Market Rent (FMR) of each unit times the term of the grant.
(c)
Payment of grant.
(1) The grant amount will be reserved for rental assistance over the grant period. An applicant's grant request is an estimate of the amount needed for rental assistance. Recipients will make draws from the reserved amount to pay the actual costs of rental assistance for program participants. For TRA, on demonstration of need, up to 25 percent of the total rental assistance awarded may be spent in any one of the five years, or a higher percentage if approved by HUD, where the applicant provides evidence satisfactory to HUD that it is financially committed to providing the housing assistance described in the application for the full five-year period.
(2) A recipient must serve at least as many participants as shown in its application. Where the grant amount reserved for rental assistance over the grant period exceeds the amount that will be needed to pay the actual costs of rental assistance, due to such factor as contract rents being lower than FMRs and participants are being able to pay a portion of the rent, recipients may use the remaining funds for the costs of administering the housing assistance, as described in paragraph (e) of this section, for damage to property, as described in paragraph (f) of this section, for covering the costs of rent increases, or for serving a great number of participants.
(d)
Vacancies.
(1) If a unit assisted under this part is vacated before the expiration of the occupancy agreement described in § 582.315 of this part, the assistance for the unit may continue for a maximum of 30 days from the end of the month in which the unit was vacated, unless occupied by another eligible person. No additional assistance will be paid until the unit is occupied by another eligible person.
(2) As used in this paragraph (d), the term “vacate” does not include brief periods of inpatient care, not to exceed 90 days for each occurrence.
(e)
Administrative costs.
(1) Up to eight percent of the grant amount may be used to pay the costs of administering the housing assistance. Recipients may contract with another entity approved by HUD to administer the housing assistance.
(2) Eligible administrative activities include processing rental payments to landlords, examining participant income and family composition, providing housing information and assistance, inspecting units for compliance with housing quality standards, and receiving into the program new participants. This administrative allowance does not include the cost of administering the supportive services or the grant (
e.g.,
costs of preparing the application, reports or audits required by HUD), which are not eligible activities under a S+C grant.
(f)
Property damage.
Recipients may use grant funds in an amount up to one month's rent to pay for any damage to housing due to the action of a participant.
[58 FR 13892, Mar. 15, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 51170, Sept. 30, 1996]
§ 582.110
Matching requirements.
(a)
Matching rental assistance with supportive services.
(1) To qualify for rental assistance grants, an applicant must certify that it will provide or ensure the provision of supportive services, including funding the services itself if the planned resources do not become available for any reason, appropriate to the needs of the population being served, and at least equal in value to the aggregate amount of rental assistance funded by HUD. The supportive services may be newly created for the program or already in operation, and may be provided or funded by other Federal, State, local, or private programs in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 11403b. This statute provides that a recipient may use funds from any source, including any other Federal source (but excluding the specific statutory subtitle from which S+C funds are provided), as well as State, local, and private sources, provided that funds from the other source are not statutorily prohibited to be used as a match.
(2) Only services that are provided after the execution of the grant agreement may count toward the match.
(3) It is the responsibility of the recipient to ensure that any funds or services used to satisfy the matching
requirements of this section are eligible under the laws governing the funds or services to be used as matching funds or services for a grant awarded under this program.
(b)
Availability to participants.
Recipients must give reasonable assurances that supportive services will be available to participants for the entire term of the rental assistance. The value of the services provided to a participant, however, does not have to equal the amount of rental assistance provided that participant, nor does the value have to be equal to the amount of rental assistance on a year-to-year basis.
(c)
Calculating the value of supportive services.
In calculating the amount of the matching supportive services, applicants may count:
(1) Salaries paid to staff of the recipient to provide supportive services to S+C participants;
(2) The value of supportive services provided by other persons or organizations to S+C participants;
(3) The value of time and services contributed by volunteers at the rate of $10.00 an hour, except for donated professional services which may be counted at the customary charge for the service provided (professional services are services ordinarily performed by donors for payment, such as the services of health professionals, that are equivalent to the services they provide in their occupations);
(4) The value of any lease on a building used for the provision of supportive services, provided the value included in the match is no more than the prorated share used for the program; and
(5) The cost of outreach activities, as described in § 582.325(a) of this part.
[58 FR 13892, Mar. 15, 1993, as amended at 73 FR 75325, Dec. 11, 2008]
§ 582.115
Limitations on assistance.
(a)
Current occupants.
Current occupants of the real property are not eligible for assistance under this part. However, as described in § 582.335, persons displaced as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for a project under the S+C program are eligible for and must be provided relocation assistance at Uniform Relocation Act levels.
(b)
Amount of assistance provided within a jurisdiction.
HUD will limit the amount of assistance provided within the jurisdiction of any one unit of local government to no more than 10 percent of the amount available.
(c)
Faith-based activities.
(1) Organizations that are religious or faith-based are eligible, on the same basis as any other organization, to participate in the S+C program. Neither the Federal government nor a State or local government receiving funds under S+C programs shall discriminate against an organization on the basis of the organization's religious character or affiliation.
(2) Organizations that are directly funded under the S+C program may not engage in inherently religious activities, such as worship, religious instruction, or proselytization as part of the programs or services funded under this part. If an organization conducts such activities, the activities must be offered separately, in time or location, from the programs or services funded under this part, and participation must be voluntary for the beneficiaries of the HUD-funded programs or services.
(3) A religious organization that participates in the S+C program will retain its independence from Federal, State, and local governments, and may continue to carry out its mission, including the definition, practice and expression of its religious beliefs, provided that it does not use direct S+C funds to support any inherently religious activities, such as worship, religious instruction, or proselytization. Among other things, faith-based organizations may use space in their facilities to provide S+C-funded services, without removing religious art, icons, scriptures, or other religious symbols. In addition, an S+C-funded religious organization retains its authority over its internal governance, and it may retain religious terms in its organization's name, select its board members on a religious basis, and include religious references in its organization's mission statements and other governing documents.
(4) An organization that participates in the S+C program shall not, in providing program assistance, discriminate against a program beneficiary or
prospective program beneficiary on the basis of religion or religious belief.
(5) If a State or local government voluntarily contributes its own funds to supplement federally funded activities, the State or local government has the option to segregate the Federal funds or commingle them. However, if the funds are commingled, this section applies to all of the commingled funds.
(d)
Maintenance of effort.
No assistance received under this part (or any State or local government funds used to supplement this assistance) may be used to replace funds provided under any State or local government assistance programs previously used, or designated for use, to assist persons with disabilities, homeless persons, or homeless persons with disabilities.
[58 FR 13892, Mar. 15, 1993, as amended at 68 FR 56407, Sept. 30, 2003]
§ 582.120
Consolidated plan.
(a)
Applicants that are States or units of general local government.
The applicant must have a HUD-approved complete or abbreviated consolidated plan, in accordance with 24 CFR part 91, and must submit a certification that the application for funding is consistent with the HUD-approved consolidated plan. Funded applicants must certify in a grant agreement that they are following the HUD-approved consolidated plan. If the applicant is a State, and the project will be located in a unit of general local government that is required to have, or has, a complete consolidated plan, or that is applying for Shelter Plus Care assistance under the same Notice of Fund Availability (NOFA) and will have an abbreviated consolidated plan with respect to that application, the State also must submit a certification by the unit of general local government that the State's application is consistent with the unit of general local government's HUD-approved consolidated plan.
(b)
Applicants that are not States or units of general local government.
The applicant must submit a certification by the jurisdiction in which the proposed project will be located that the jurisdiction is following its HUD-approved consolidated plan and the applicant's application for funding is consistent with the jurisdiction's HUD-approved consolidated plan. The certification must be made by the unit of general local government or the State, in accordance with the consistency certification provisions of the consolidated plan regulations, 24 CFR part 91, subpart F.
(c)
Indian tribes and the Insular Areas of Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and the Northern Mariana Islands.
These entities are not required to have a consolidated plan or to make consolidated plan certifications. An application by an Indian tribe or other applicant for a project that will be located on a reservation of an Indian tribe will not require a certification by the tribe or the State. However, where an Indian tribe is the applicant for a project that will not be located on a reservation, the requirement for a certification under paragraph (b) of this section will apply.
(d)
Timing of consolidated plan certification submissions.
Unless otherwise set forth in the NOFA, the required certification that the application for funding is consistent with the HUD-approved consolidated plan must be submitted by the funding application submission deadline announced in the NOFA.
[60 FR 16379, Mar. 30, 1995]

# Subpart C—Application and Grant Award
§ 582.200
Application and grant award.
(a)
Review.
When funds are made available for assistance, HUD will publish a notice of fund availability in the
Federal Register
in accordance with the requirements of 24 CFR part 4. Applications will be reviewed and screened in accordance with the guidelines, rating criteria and procedures published in the notice.
(b)
Rating criteria.
HUD will award funds based on the criteria specified in section 455(a)(1) through (8) of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11403d(1)—11403d(8)) and on the following criteria authorized by section 455(a)(9) of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11403d(9)):
(1) The extent to which the applicant has demonstrated coordination with other Federal, State, local, private and other entities serving homeless persons
in the planning and operation of the project, to the extent practicable;
(2) Extent to which the project targets homeless persons living in emergency shelters, supportive housing for homeless persons, or in places not designed for, or ordinarily used as, a regular sleeping accommodation for human beings;
(3) Quality of the project; and
(4) Extent to which the program will serve homeless persons who are seriously mentally ill, have chronic alcohol and/or drug abuse problems, or have AIDS and related diseases.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506-0118)
[61 FR 51170, Sept. 30, 1996]
§ 582.230
Environmental review.
(a) Activities under this part are subject to HUD environmental regulations in part 58 of this title, except that HUD will perform an environmental review in accordance with part 50 of this title prior to its approval of any conditionally selected applications from PHAs for Fiscal Year 2000 and prior years for other than the SRO component. For activities under a grant to a PHA that generally would be subject to review under part 58, HUD may make a finding in accordance with § 58.11(d) and may itself perform the environmental review under the provisions of part 50 of this title if the recipient PHA objects in writing to the responsible entity's performing the review under part 58. Irrespective of whether the responsible entity in accord with part 58 (or HUD in accord with part 50) performs the environmental review, the recipient shall supply all available, relevant information necessary for the responsible entity (or HUD, if applicable) to perform for each property any environmental review required by this part. The recipient also shall carry out mitigating measures required by the responsible entity (or HUD, if applicable) or select alternate eligible property. HUD may eliminate from consideration any application that would require an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS).
(b) The recipient, its project partners and their contractors may not acquire, rehabilitate, convert, lease, repair, dispose of, demolish, or construct property for a project under this part, or commit or expend HUD or local funds for such eligible activities under this part, until the responsible entity (as defined in § 58.2 of this title) has completed the environmental review procedures required by part 58 and the environmental certification and RROF have been approved or HUD has performed an environmental review under part 50 and the recipient has received HUD approval of the property. HUD will not release grant funds if the recipient or any other party commits grant funds (
i.e.,
incurs any costs or expenditures to be paid or reimbursed with such funds) before the recipient submits and HUD approves its RROF (where such submission is required).
[68 FR 56130, Sept. 29, 2003]

# Subpart D—Program Requirements
§ 582.300
General operation.
(a)
Participation of homeless individuals.
(1) Each recipient must provide for the consultation and participation of not less than one homeless individual or formerly homeless individual on the board of directors or other equivalent policy-making entity of the recipient, to the extent that the entity considers and makes policies and decisions regarding any housing assisted under this part or services for the participants. This requirement is waived if the applicant is unable to meet the requirement and presents a plan, which HUD approves, to otherwise consult with homeless or formerly homeless individuals in considering and making such policies and decisions. Participation by such an individual who also is a participant under the program does not constitute a conflict of interest under § 582.340(b) of this part.
(2) To the maximum extent practicable, each recipient must involve homeless individuals and families, through employment, volunteer services, or otherwise, in constructing or rehabilitating housing assisted under this part and in providing supportive services required under § 582.215 of this part.
(b)
Ongoing assessment of housing and supportive services.
Each recipient of assistance must conduct an ongoing assessment of the housing assistance and supportive services required by the participants, and make adjustments as appropriate.
(c)
Adequate supportive services.
Each recipient must assure that adequate supportive services are available to participants in the program.
(d)
Records and reports.
(1) Each recipient must keep any records and, within the timeframe required, make any reports (including those pertaining to race, ethnicity, gender, and disability status data) that HUD may require.
(2) Each recipient must keep on file, and make available to the public on request, a description of the procedures used to select sponsors under the SRA component and buildings under the SRO, SRA, and PRA components.
(3) Each recipient must develop, and make available to the public upon request, its procedures for managing the rental housing assistance funds provided by HUD. At a minimum, such procedures must describe how units will be identified and selected; how the responsibility for inspections will be handled; the process for deciding which unit a participant will occupy; how participants will be placed in, or assisted in finding appropriate housing; how rent calculations will be made and the amount of rental assistance payments determined; and what safeguards will be used to prevent the misuse of funds.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506-0118)
[58 FR 13892, Mar. 15, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 51171, Sept. 30, 1996]
§ 582.301
Recordkeeping.
(a) [Reserved]
(b)
Homeless status.
The recipient must maintain and follow written intake procedures to ensure compliance with the homeless definition in § 582.5. The procedures must require documentation at intake of the evidence relied upon to establish and verify homeless status. The procedures must establish the order of priority for obtaining evidence as third-party documentation first, intake worker observations second, and certification from the person seeking assistance third. However, lack of third-party documentation must not prevent an individual or family from being immediately admitted to emergency shelter, receiving street outreach services, or being immediately admitted to shelter or receiving services provided by a victim service provider, as defined in section 401(32) of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, as amended by the HEARTH Act. Records contained in an HMIS or comparable database used by victim service or legal service providers are acceptable evidence of third-party documentation and intake worker observations if the HMIS retains an auditable history of all entries, including the person who entered the data, the date of entry, and the change made; and if the HMIS prevents overrides or changes of the dates entries are made.
(1) If the individual or family qualifies as homeless under paragraph (1)(i) or (ii) of the homeless definition in § 582.5, acceptable evidence includes a written observation by an outreach worker of the conditions where the individual or family was living, a written referral by another housing or service provider, or a certification by the individual or head of household seeking assistance.
(2) If the individual qualifies as homeless under paragraph (1)(iii) of the homeless definition in § 582.5, because he or she resided in an emergency shelter or place not meant for human habitation and is exiting an institution where he or she resided for 90 days or less, acceptable evidence includes the evidence described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and one of the following:
(i) Discharge paperwork or a written or oral referral from a social worker, case manager, or other appropriate official of the institution, stating the beginning and end dates of the time residing in the institution. All oral statements must be recorded by the intake worker; or
(ii) Where the evidence in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section is not obtainable, a written record of the intake worker's due diligence in attempting to obtain the evidence described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) and a certification by
the individual seeking assistance that states he or she is exiting or has just exited an institution where he or she resided for 90 days or less.
(3) If the individual or family qualifies as homeless under paragraph (2) of the homeless definition in § 582.5, because the individual or family will imminently lose their housing, the evidence must include:
(i)(A) A court order resulting from an eviction action that requires the individual or family to leave their residence within 14 days after the date of their application for homeless assistance; or the equivalent notice under applicable state law, a Notice to Quit, or a Notice to Terminate issued under state law;
(B) For individuals and families whose primary nighttime residence is a hotel or motel room not paid for by charitable organizations or federal, state, or local government programs for low-income individuals, evidence that the individual or family lacks the resources necessary to reside there for more than 14 days after the date of application for homeless assistance; or
(C) An oral statement by the individual or head of household that the owner or renter of the housing in which they currently reside will not allow them to stay for more than 14 days after the date of application for homeless assistance. The intake worker must record the statement and certify that it was found credible. To be found credible, the oral statement must either: (I) Be verified by the owner or renter of the housing in which the individual or family resides at the time of application for homeless assistance and be documented by a written certification by the owner or renter or by the intake worker's recording of the owner or renter's oral statement; or (II) if the intake worker is unable to contact the owner or renter, be documented by a written certification by the intake worker of his or her due diligence in attempting to obtain the owner or renter's verification and the written certification by the individual or head of household seeking assistance that his or her statement was true and complete;
(ii) Certification by the individual or head of household that no subsequent residence has been identified; and
(iii) Certification or other written documentation that the individual or family lacks the resources and support networks needed to obtain other permanent housing.
(4) If the individual or family qualifies as homeless under paragraph (3) of the homeless definition in § 582.5, because the individual or family does not otherwise qualify as homeless under the homeless definition but is an unaccompanied youth under 25 years of age, or homeless family with one or more children or youth, and is defined as homeless under another Federal statute or section 725(2) of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11434a(2)), the evidence must include:
(i) For paragraph (3)(i) of the homeless definition in § 582.5, certification of homeless status by the local private nonprofit organization or state or local governmental entity responsible for administering assistance under the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5701
et seq.
), the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9831
et seq.
), subtitle N of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 14043e
et seq.
), section 330 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254b), the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2011
et seq.
), section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786), or subtitle B of title VII of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11431
et seq.
), as applicable;
(ii) For paragraph (3)(ii) of the homeless definition in § 582.5, referral by a housing or service provider, written observation by an outreach worker, or certification by the homeless individual or head of household seeking assistance;
(iii) For paragraph (3)(iii) of the homeless definition in § 582.5, certification by the individual or head of household and any available supporting documentation that the individual or family moved two or more times during the 60-day period immediately preceding the date of application for homeless assistance, including: Recorded statements or records obtained from each owner or renter of housing,
provider of shelter or housing, or social worker, case worker, or other appropriate official of a hospital or institution in which the individual or family resided; or, where these statements or records are unobtainable, a written record of the intake worker's due diligence in attempting to obtain these statements or records. Where a move was due to the individual or family fleeing domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, then the intake worker may alternatively obtain a written certification from the individual or head of household seeking assistance that they were fleeing that situation and that they resided at that address; and
(iv) For paragraph (3)(iv) of the homeless definition in § 582.5, written diagnosis from a professional who is licensed by the state to diagnose and treat that condition (or intake staff-recorded observation of disability that within 45 days of the date of application for assistance is confirmed by a professional who is licensed by the state to diagnose and treat that condition); employment records; department of corrections records; literacy, English proficiency tests; or other reasonable documentation of the conditions required under paragraph (3)(iv) of the homeless definition.
(5) If the individual or family qualifies under paragraph (4) of the homeless definition in § 582.5, because the individual or family is fleeing domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, or other dangerous or life-threatening conditions related to violence, then acceptable evidence includes an oral statement by the individual or head of household seeking assistance that they are fleeing that situation, that no subsequent residence has been identified, and that they lack the resources or support networks, e.g., family, friends, faith-based or other social networks, needed to obtain other housing. If the individual or family is receiving shelter or services provided by a victim service provider, as defined in section 401(32) of the McKinney-Vento-Homeless Assistance Act, as amended by the HEARTH Act, the oral statement must be documented by either a certification by the individual or head of household, or a certification by the intake worker. Otherwise, the oral statement that the individual or head of household seeking assistance has not identified a subsequent residence and lacks the resources or support networks, e.g., family, friends, faith-based or other social networks, needed to obtain housing must be documented by a certification by the individual or head of household that the oral statement is true and complete, and, where the safety of the individual or family would not be jeopardized, the domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking or other dangerous or life-threatening condition must be verified by a written observation by the intake worker or a written referral by a housing or service provider, social worker, health-care provider, law enforcement agency, legal assistance provider, pastoral counselor, or any other organization from whom the individual or head of household has sought assistance for domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking. The written referral or observation need only include the minimum amount of information necessary to document that the individual or family is fleeing, or attempting to flee domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.
(c)
Disability.
—Each recipient of assistance under this part must maintain and follow written intake procedures to ensure that the assistance benefits persons with disabilities, as defined in § 582.5. In addition to the documentation required under paragraph (b), the procedures must require documentation at intake of the evidence relied upon to establish and verify the disability of the person applying for homeless assistance. The recipient must keep these records for 5 years after the end of the grant term. Acceptable evidence of the disability includes:
(1) Written verification of the disability from a professional licensed by the state to diagnose and treat the disability and his or her certification that the disability is expected to be long-continuing or of indefinite duration and substantially impedes the individual's ability to live independently;
(2) Written verification from the Social Security Administration;
(3) The receipt of a disability check (e.g., Social Security Disability Insurance check or Veteran Disability Compensation);
(4) Intake staff-recorded observation of disability that, no later than 45 days of the application for assistance, is confirmed and accompanied by evidence in paragraph (c)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section; or
(5) Other documentation approved by HUD.
[76 FR 76015, Dec. 5, 2011]
§ 582.305
Housing quality standards; rent reasonableness.
(a)
Housing quality standards.
Housing assisted under this part must meet the applicable housing quality standards (HQS) under § 982.401 of this title—except that § 982.401(j) of this title does not apply and instead part 35, subparts A, B, K and R of this title apply—and, for SRO under § 882.803(b) of this title. Before any assistance will be provided on behalf of a participant, the recipient, or another entity acting on behalf of the recipient (other than the owner of the housing), must physically inspect each unit to assure that the unit meets the HQS. Assistance will not be provided for units that fail to meet the HQS, unless the owner corrects any deficiencies within 30 days from the date of the lease agreement and the recipient verifies that all deficiencies have been corrected. Recipients must also inspect all units at least annually during the grant period to ensure that the units continue to meet the HQS.
(b)
Rent reasonableness.
HUD will only provide assistance for a unit for which the rent is reasonable. For TRA, PRA, and SRA, it is the responsibility of the recipient to determine whether the rent charged for the unit receiving rental assistance is reasonable in relation to rents being charged for comparable unassisted units, taking into account the location, size, type, quality, amenities, facilities, and management and maintenance of each unit, as well as not in excess of rents currently being charged by the same owner for comparable unassisted units. For SRO, rents are calculated in accordance with 24 CFR 882.805(g).
[58 FR 13892, Mar. 15, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 51171, Sept. 30, 1996; 64 FR 50226, Sept. 15, 1999]
§ 582.310
Resident rent.
(a)
Amount of rent.
Each participant must pay rent in accordance with section 3(a)(1) of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(a)(1)), except that in determining the rent of a person occupying an intermediate care facility assisted under title XIX of the Social Security Act, the gross income of this person is the same as if the person were being assisted under title XVI of the Social Security Act.
(b)
Calculating income.
(1) Income of participants must be calculated in accordance with 24 CFR 5.609 and 24 CFR 5.611(a).
(2) Recipients must examine a participant's income initially, and at least annually thereafter, to determine the amount of rent payable by the participant. Adjustments to a participant's rental payment must be made as necessary.
(3) As a condition of participation in the program, each participant must agree to supply the information or documentation necessary to verify the participant's income. Participants must provide the recipient information at any time regarding changes in income or other circumstances that may result in changes to a participant's rental payment.
[66 FR 6225, Jan. 19, 2001]
§ 582.315
Occupancy agreements.
(a)
Initial occupancy agreement.
Participants must enter into an occupancy agreement for a term of at least one month. The occupancy agreement must be automatically renewable upon expiration, except on prior notice by either party.
(b)
Terms of agreement.
In addition to standard lease provisions, the occupancy agreement may also include a provision requiring the participant to take part in the supportive services provided through the program as a condition of continued occupancy.
§ 582.320
Termination of assistance to participants.
(a)
Termination of assistance.
The recipient may terminate assistance to a participant who violates program requirements or conditions of occupancy. Recipients must exercise judgment and examine all extenuating circumstances in determining when violations are serious enough to warrant termination, so that a participant's assistance is terminated only in the most severe cases. Recipients are not prohibited from resuming assistance to a participant whose assistance has been terminated.
(b)
Due process.
In terminating assistance to a participant, the recipient must provide a formal process that recognizes the rights of individuals receiving assistance to due process of law. This process, at a minimum, must consist of:
(1) Written notice to the participant containing a clear statement of the reasons for termination;
(2) A review of the decision, in which the participant is given the opportunity to present written or oral objections before a person other than the person (or a subordinate of that person) who made or approved the termination decision; and
(3) Prompt written notice of the final decision to the participant.
§ 582.325
Outreach activities.
Recipients must use their best efforts to ensure that eligible hard-to-reach persons are served by S+C. Recipients are expected to make sustained efforts to engage eligible persons so that they may be brought into the program. Outreach should be primarily directed toward eligible persons who have a nighttime residence that is an emergency shelter or a public or private place not designed for, or ordinarily used as, a regular sleeping accommodation for human beings (
e.g.,
persons living in cars, streets, and parks). Outreach activities are considered to be a supportive service, and the value of such activities that occur after the execution of the grant agreement may be included in meeting the matching requirement.
§ 582.330
Nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements.
(a)
General.
Recipients may establish a preference as part of their admissions procedures for one or more of the statutorily targeted populations (
i.e.,
seriously mentally ill, alcohol or substance abusers, or persons with AIDS and related diseases). However, other eligible disabled homeless persons must be considered for housing designed for the target population unless the recipient can demonstrate that there is sufficient demand by the target population for the units, and other eligible disabled homeless persons would not benefit from the primary supportive services provided.
(b)
Compliance with requirements.
(1) In addition to the nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 5, recipients serving a designated population of homeless persons must, within the designated population, comply with the prohibitions against discrimination against handicapped individuals under section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794) and implementing regulations at 41 CFR chapter 60-741.
(2) The nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements set forth at part 5 of this title are modified as follows:
(i) The Indian Civil Rights Act (25 U.S.C. 1301
et seq.
) applies to tribes when they exercise their powers of self-government, and to IHAs when established by the exercise of such powers. When an IHA is established under State law, the applicability of the Indian Civil Rights Act will be determined on a case-by-case basis. Projects subject to the Indian Civil Rights Act must be developed and operated in compliance with its provisions and all implementing HUD requirements, instead of title VI and the Fair Housing Act and their implementing regulations.
(ii) [Reserved]
(c)
Affirmative outreach.
(1) If the procedures that the recipient intends to use to make known the availability of the program are unlikely to reach persons of any particular race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, familial status, or handicap who may qualify
for assistance, the recipient must establish additional procedures that will ensure that interested persons can obtain information concerning the assistance.
(2) The recipient must adopt procedures to make available information on the existence and locations of facilities and services that are accessible to persons with a handicap and maintain evidence of implementation of the procedures.
(d) The accessibility requirements, reasonable modification, and accommodation requirements of the Fair Housing Act and of section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.
[58 FR 13892, Mar. 15, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 5210, Feb. 9, 1996]
§ 582.335
Displacement, relocation, and real property acquisition.
(a)
Minimizing displacement.
Consistent with the other goals and objectives of this part, recipients must assure that they have taken all reasonable steps to minimize the displacement of persons (families, individuals, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and farms) as a result of supportive housing assisted under this part.
(b)
Relocation assistance for displaced persons.
A displaced person (defined in paragraph (f) of this section) must be provided relocation assistance at the levels described in, and in accordance with, the requirements of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (URA) (42 U.S.C. 4601-4655) and implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24.
(c)
Real property acquisition requirements.
The acquisition of real property for supportive housing is subject to the URA and the requirements described in 49 CFR part 24, subpart B.
(d)
Responsibility of recipient.
(1) The recipient must certify (
i.e.,
provide assurance of compliance) that it will comply with the URA, the regulations at 49 CFR part 24, and the requirements of this section, and must ensure such compliance notwithstanding any third party's contractual obligation to the recipient to comply with these provisions.
(2) The cost of required relocation assistance is an eligible project cost in the same manner and to the same extent as other project costs. Such costs also may be paid for with local public funds or funds available from other sources.
(3) The recipient must maintain records in sufficient detail to demonstrate compliance with provisions of this section.
(e)
Appeals.
A person who disagrees with the recipient's determination concerning whether the person qualifies as a “displaced person,” or the amount of relocation assistance for which the person is eligible, may file a written appeal of that determination with the recipient. A low-income person who is dissatisfied with the recipient's determination on his or her appeal may submit a written request for review of that determination to the HUD field office.
(f)
Definition of displaced person.
(1) For purposes of this section, the term “displaced person” means a person (family, individual, business, nonprofit organization, or farm) that moves from real property, or moves personal property from real property permanently as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for supportive housing project assisted under this part. The term “displaced person” includes, but may not be limited to:
(i) A person that moves permanently from the real property after the property owner (or person in control of the site) issues a vacate notice or refuses to renew an expiring lease, if the move occurs on or after:
(A) The date that the recipient submits to HUD an application for assistance that is later approved and funded, if the recipient has control of the project site; or
(B) The date that the recipient obtains control of the project site, if such control is obtained after the submission of the application to HUD.
(ii) Any person, including a person who moves before the date described in paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, if the recipient or HUD determines that the displacement resulted directly from acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for the assisted project.
(iii) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling unit who moves permanently from the building/complex on or after the date of the “initiation of negotiations” (see paragraph (g) of this section) if the
move occurs before the tenant has been provided written notice offering him or her the opportunity to lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe and sanitary dwelling in the same building/complex, under reasonable terms and conditions, upon completion of the project. Such reasonable terms and conditions must include a monthly rent and estimated average monthly utility costs that do not exceed the greater of:
(A) The tenant's monthly rent before the initiation of negotiations and estimated average utility costs, or
(B) 30 percent of gross household income. If the initial rent is at or near the maximum, there must be a reasonable basis for concluding at the time the project is initiated that future rent increases will be modest.
(iv) A tenant of a dwelling who is required to relocate temporarily, but does not return to the building/complex, if either:
(A) A tenant is not offered payment for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation, or
(B) Other conditions of the temporary relocation are not reasonable.
(v) A tenant of a dwelling who moves from the building/complex permanently after he or she has been required to move to another unit in the same building/complex, if either:
(A) The tenant is not offered reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the move; or
(B) Other conditions of the move are not reasonable.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, a person does not qualify as a “displaced person” (and is not eligible for relocation assistance under the URA or this section), if:
(i) The person has been evicted for serious or repeated violation of the terms and conditions of the lease or occupancy agreement, violation of applicable Federal, State, or local or tribal law, or other good cause, and HUD determines that the eviction was not undertaken for the purpose of evading the obligation to provide relocation assistance;
(ii) The person moved into the property after the submission of the application and, before signing a lease and commencing occupancy, was provided written notice of the project, its possible impact on the person (e.g., the person may be displaced, temporarily relocated, or suffer a rent increase) and the fact that the person would not qualify as a “displaced person” (or for any assistance provided under this section), if the project is approved;
(iii) The person is ineligible under 49 CFR 24.2(g)(2); or
(iv) HUD determines that the person was not displaced as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for the project.
(3) The recipient may request, at any time, HUD's determination of whether a displacement is or would be covered under this section.
(g)
Definition of initiation of negotiations.
For purposes of determining the formula for computing the replacement housing assistance to be provided to a residential tenant displaced as a direct result of privately undertaken rehabilitation, demolition, or acquisition of the real property, the term “initiation of negotiations” means the execution of the agreement between the recipient and HUD, or selection of the project site, if later.
§ 582.340
Other Federal requirements.
In addition to the Federal requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 5, the following requirements apply to this program:
(a)
Uniform requirements.
(1) The policies, guidelines, and requirements of 24 CFR part 85 (as revised April 1, 2013) apply to the acceptance and use of assistance under the program by governmental entities and 24 CFR part 84 (as revised April 1, 2013) apply to the acceptance and use of assistance by private nonprofit organizations, except where inconsistent with provisions of the McKinney Act, other Federal statutes, or this part.
(2) The financial management systems used by recipients under this program must provide for audits in accordance with the provisions of 2 CFR part 200, subpart F. Private nonprofit organizations who are subrecipients are subject to the audit requirements
of 2 CFR part 200, subpart F. HUD may perform or require additional audits as it finds necessary or appropriate.
(b)
Conflict of interest.
(1) In addition to the conflict of interest requirements in 24 CFR part 85 (as revised April 1, 2013), no person who is an employee, agent, consultant, officer, or elected or appointed official of the recipient and who exercises or has exercised any functions or responsibilities with respect to assisted activities, or who is in a position to participate in a decisionmaking process or gain inside information with regard to such activities, may obtain a personal or financial interest or benefit from the activity, or have an interest in any contract, subcontract, or agreement with respect thereto, or the proceeds thereunder, either for himself or herself or for those with whom he or she has family or business ties, during his or her tenure or for one year thereafter. Participation by homeless individuals who also are participants under the program in policy or decisionmaking under § 582.300 of this part does not constitute a conflict of interest.
(2) Upon the written request of the recipient, HUD may grant an exception to the provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section on a case-by-case basis when it determine that the exception will serve to further the purposes of the program and the effective and efficient administration of the recipient's project. An exception may be considered only after the recipient has provided the following:
(i) For States, units of general local governments, PHAs and IHAs, a disclosure of the nature of the conflict, accompanied by an assurance that there has been public disclosure of the conflict and a description of how the public disclosure was made; and
(ii) For all recipients, an opinion of the recipient's attorney that the interest for which the exception is sought would not violate State or local law.
(3) In determining whether to grant a requested exception after the recipient has satisfactorily met the requirement of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, HUD will consider the cumulative effect of the following factors, where applicable:
(i) Whether the exception would provide a significant cost benefit or an essential degree of expertise to the project which would otherwise not be available;
(ii) Whether the person affected is a member of a group or class of eligible persons and the exception will permit such person to receive generally the same interests or benefits as are being made available or provided to the group or class;
(iii) Whether the affected person has withdrawn from his or her functions or responsibilities, or the decisionmaking process with respect to the specific assisted activity in question;
(iv) Whether the interest or benefit was present before the affected person was in a position as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section;
(v) Whether undue hardship will result either to the recipient or the person affected when weighed against the public interest served by avoiding the prohibited conflict; and
(vi) Any other relevant considerations.
[58 FR 13892, Mar. 15, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 5210, Feb. 9, 1996; 61 FR 51171, Sept. 30, 1996; 62 FR 13539, Mar. 21, 1997; 80 FR 75940, Dec. 7, 2015]

# Subpart E—Administration
§ 582.400
Grant agreement.
(a)
General.
The grant agreement will be between HUD and the recipient. HUD will hold the recipient responsible for the overall administration of the program, including overseeing any subrecipients or contractors. Under the grant agreement, the recipient must agree to operate the program in accordance with the provisions of this part and other applicable HUD regulations.
(b)
Enforcement.
HUD will enforce the obligations in the grant agreement through such action as may be necessary, including recapturing assistance awarded under the program.
§ 582.405
Program changes.
(a)
Changes.
HUD must approve, in writing, any significant changes to an approved program. Significant changes that require approval include, but are not limited to, a change in sponsor , a change in the project site for SRO or PRA with rehabilitation projects, and
a change in the type of persons with disabilities to be served. Depending on the nature of the change, HUD may require a new certification of consistency with the CHAS (see § 582.120).
(b)
Approval.
Approval for such changes is contingent upon the application ranking remaining high enough to have been competitively selected for funding in the year the application was selected.
§ 582.410
Obligation and deobligation of funds.
(a)
Obligation of funds.
When HUD and the applicant execute a grant agreement, HUD will obligate funds to cover the amount of the approved grant. The recipient will be expected to carry out the activities as proposed in the application. After the initial obligation of funds, HUD is under no obligation to make any upward revisions to the grant amount for any approved assistance.
(b)
Deobligation.
(1) HUD may deobligate all or a portion of the approved grant amount if such amount is not expended in a timely manner, or the proposed housing for which funding was approved or the supportive services proposed in the application are not provided in accordance with the approved application, the requirements of this part, and other applicable HUD regulations. The grant agreement may set forth other circumstances under which funds may be deobligated, and other sanctions may be imposed.
(2) HUD may readvertise, in a notice of fund availability, the availability of funds that have been deobligated, or may reconsider applications that were submitted in response to the most recently published notice of fund availability and select applications for funding with the deobligated funds. Such selections would be made in accordance with the selection process described in § 582.220 of this part. Any selections made using deobligated funds will be subject to applicable appropriation act requirements governing the use of deobligated funding authority.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506-0118)
Pt. 583

# PART 583—SUPPORTIVE HOUSING PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
583.1
Purpose and scope.
583.5
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Assistance Provided
583.100
Types and uses of assistance.
583.105
Grants for acquisition and rehabilitation.
583.110
Grants for new construction.
583.115
Grants for leasing.
583.120
Grants for supportive service costs.
583.125
Grants for operating costs.
583.130
Commitment of grant amounts for leasing, supportive services, and operating costs.
583.135
Administrative costs.
583.140
Technical assistance.
583.145
Matching requirements.
583.150
Limitations on use of assistance.
583.155
Consolidated plan.

# Subpart C—Application and Grant Award Process
583.200
Application and grant award.
583.230
Environmental review.
583.235
Renewal grants.

# Subpart D—Program Requirements
583.300
General operation.
583.301
Recordkeeping.
583.305
Term of commitment; repayment of grants; prevention of undue benefits.
583.310
Displacement, relocation, and acquisition.
583.315
Resident rent.
583.320
Site control.
583.325
Nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements.
583.330
Applicability of other Federal requirements.

# Subpart E—Administration
583.400
Grant agreement.
583.405
Program changes.
583.410
Obligation and deobligation of funds.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 11389 and 3535(d).

# Source:
58 FR 13871, Mar. 15, 1993, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 583.1
Purpose and scope.
(a)
General.
The Supportive Housing Program is authorized by title IV of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (the McKinney Act) (42
U.S.C. 11381-11389). The Supportive Housing program is designed to promote the development of supportive housing and supportive services, including innovative approaches to assist homeless persons in the transition from homelessness, and to promote the provision of supportive housing to homeless persons to enable them to live as independently as possible.
(b)
Components.
Funds under this part may be used for:
(1) Transitional housing to facilitate the movement of homeless individuals and families to permanent housing;
(2) Permanent housing that provides long-term housing for homeless persons with disabilities;
(3) Housing that is, or is part of, a particularly innovative project for, or alternative methods of, meeting the immediate and long-term needs of homeless persons; or
(4) Supportive services for homeless persons not provided in conjunction with supportive housing.
[58 FR 13871, Mar. 15, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 51175, Sept. 30, 1996]
§ 583.5
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Applicant
is defined in section 422(1) of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11382(1)). For purposes of this definition, governmental entities include those that have general governmental powers (such as a city or county), as well as those that have limited or special powers (such as public housing agencies).
Consolidated plan
means the plan that a jurisdiction prepares and submits to HUD in accordance with 24 CFR part 91.
Date of initial occupancy
means the date that the supportive housing is initially occupied by a homeless person for whom HUD provides assistance under this part. If the assistance is for an existing homeless facility, the
date of initial occupancy
is the date that services are first provided to the residents of supportive housing with funding under this part.
Date of initial service provision
means the date that supportive services are initially provided with funds under this part to homeless persons who do not reside in supportive housing. This definition applies only to projects funded under this part that do not provide supportive housing.
Developmental disability
means, as defined in section 102 of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 15002):
(1) A severe, chronic disability of an individual that—
(i) Is attributable to a mental or physical impairment or combination of mental and physical impairments;
(ii) Is manifested before the individual attains age 22;
(iii) Is likely to continue indefinitely;
(iv) Results in substantial functional limitations in three or more of the following areas of major life activity:
(A) Self-care;
(B) Receptive and expressive language;
(C) Learning;
(D) Mobility;
(E) Self-direction;
(F) Capacity for independent living;
(G) Economic self-sufficiency; and
(v) Reflects the individual's need for a combination and sequence of special, interdisciplinary, or generic services, individualized supports, or other forms of assistance that are of lifelong or extended duration and are individually planned and coordinated.
(2) An individual from birth to age 9, inclusive, who has a substantial developmental delay or specific congenital or acquired condition, may be considered to have a developmental disability without meeting three or more of the criteria described in paragraphs (1)(i) through (v) of the definition of “developmental disability” in this section if the individual, without services and supports, has a high probability of meeting those criteria later in life.
Disability
means:
(1) A condition that:
(i) Is expected to be long-continuing or of indefinite duration;
(ii) Substantially impedes the individual's ability to live independently;
(iii) Could be improved by the provision of more suitable housing conditions; and
(iv) Is a physical, mental, or emotional impairment, including an impairment caused by alcohol or drug
abuse, post-traumatic stress disorder, or brain injury;
(2) A developmental disability, as defined in this section; or
(3) The disease of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) or any conditions arising from the etiologic agent for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, including infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
Homeless
means:
(1) An individual or family who lacks a fixed, regular, and adequate nighttime residence, meaning:
(i) An individual or family with a primary nighttime residence that is a public or private place not designed for or ordinarily used as a regular sleeping accommodation for human beings, including a car, park, abandoned building, bus or train station, airport, or camping ground;
(ii) An individual or family living in a supervised publicly or privately operated shelter designated to provide temporary living arrangements (including congregate shelters, transitional housing, and hotels and motels paid for by charitable organizations or by federal, state, or local government programs for low-income individuals); or
(iii) An individual who is exiting an institution where he or she resided for 90 days or less and who resided in an emergency shelter or place not meant for human habitation immediately before entering that institution;
(2) An individual or family who will imminently lose their primary nighttime residence, provided that:
(i) The primary nighttime residence will be lost within 14 days of the date of application for homeless assistance;
(ii) No subsequent residence has been identified; and
(iii) The individual or family lacks the resources or support networks, e.g., family, friends, faith-based or other social networks, needed to obtain other permanent housing;
(3) Unaccompanied youth under 25 years of age, or families with children and youth, who do not otherwise qualify as homeless under this definition, but who:
(i) Are defined as homeless under section 387 of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5732a), section 637 of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9832), section 41403 of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 14043e-2), section 330(h) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254b(h)), section 3 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2012), section 17(b) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786(b)), or section 725 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11434a);
(ii) Have not had a lease, ownership interest, or occupancy agreement in permanent housing at any time during the 60 days immediately preceding the date of application for homeless assistance;
(iii) Have experienced persistent instability as measured by two moves or more during the 60-day period immediately preceding the date of applying for homeless assistance; and
(iv) Can be expected to continue in such status for an extended period of time because of chronic disabilities, chronic physical health or mental health conditions, substance addiction, histories of domestic violence or childhood abuse (including neglect), the presence of a child or youth with a disability, or two or more barriers to employment, which include the lack of a high school degree or General Education Development (GED), illiteracy, low English proficiency, a history of incarceration or detention for criminal activity, and a history of unstable employment; or
(4) Any individual or family who:
(i) Is fleeing, or is attempting to flee, domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, or other dangerous or life-threatening conditions that relate to violence against the individual or a family member, including a child, that has either taken place within the individual's or family's primary nighttime residence or has made the individual or family afraid to return to their primary nighttime residence;
(ii) Has no other residence; and
(iii) Lacks the resources or support networks, e.g., family, friends, and faith-based or other social networks, to obtain other permanent housing.
Metropolitan city
is defined in section 102(a)(4) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302(a)(4)). In general, metropolitan cities are those cities that are eligible for
an entitlement grant under 24 CFR part 570, subpart D.
New construction
means the building of a structure where none existed or an addition to an existing structure that increases the floor area by more than 100 percent.
Operating costs
is defined in section 422(5) of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11382(5)).
Outpatient health services
is defined in section 422(6) of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11382(6)).
Permanent housing for homeless persons with disabilities
is defined in section 424(c) of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11384(c)).
Private nonprofit organization
is defined in section 422(7) (A), (B), and (D) of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11382(7) (A), (B), and (D)). The organization must also have a functioning accounting system that is operated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or designate an entity that will maintain a functioning accounting system for the organization in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Project
is defined in sections 422(8) and 424(d) of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11382(8), 11384(d)).
Recipient
is defined in section 422(9) of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11382(9)).
Rehabilitation
means the improvement or repair of an existing structure or an addition to an existing structure that does not increase the floor area by more than 100 percent. Rehabilitation does not include minor or routine repairs.
State
is defined in section 422(11) of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11382(11)).
Supportive housing
is defined in section 424(a) of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11384(a)).
Supportive services
is defined in section 425 of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11385).
Transitional housing
is defined in section 424(b) of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11384(b)). See also § 583.300(j).
Tribe
is defined in section 102 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302).
Urban county
is defined in section 102(a)(6) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302(a)(6)). In general, urban counties are those counties that are eligible for an entitlement grant under 24 CFR part 570, subpart D.
[61 FR 51175, Sept. 30, 1996, as amended at 76 FR 76016, Dec. 5, 2011]

# Subpart B—Assistance Provided
§ 583.100
Types and uses of assistance.
(a)
Grant assistance.
Assistance in the form of grants is available for acquisition of structures, rehabilitation of structures, acquisition and rehabilitation of structures, new construction, leasing, operating costs for supportive housing, and supportive services, as described in §§ 583.105 through 583.125. Applicants may apply for more than one type of assistance.
(b)
Uses of grant assistance.
Grant assistance may be used to:
(1) Establish new supportive housing facilities or new facilities to provide supportive services;
(2) Expand existing facilities in order to increase the number of homeless persons served;
(3) Bring existing facilities up to a level that meets State and local government health and safety standards;
(4) Provide additional supportive services for residents of supportive housing or for homeless persons not residing in supportive housing;
(5) Purchase HUD-owned single family properties currently leased by the applicant for use as a homeless facility under 24 CFR part 291; and
(6) Continue funding supportive housing where the recipient has received funding under this part for leasing, supportive services, or operating costs.
(c)
Structures used for multiple purposes.
Structures used to provide supportive housing or supportive services may also be used for other purposes, except that assistance under this part will be available only in proportion to the use of the structure for supportive housing or supportive services.
(d)
Technical assistance.
HUD may offer technical assistance, as described in § 583.140.
[58 FR 13871, Mar. 15, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 36891, July 19, 1994]
§ 583.105
Grants for acquisition and rehabilitation.
(a)
Use.
HUD will grant funds to recipients to:
(1) Pay a portion of the cost of the acquisition of real property selected by the recipients for use in the provision of supportive housing or supportive services, including the repayment of any outstanding debt on a loan made to purchase property that has not been used previously as supportive housing or for supportive services;
(2) Pay a portion of the cost of rehabilitation of structures, including cost-effective energy measures, selected by the recipients to provide supportive housing or supportive services; or
(3) Pay a portion of the cost of acquisition and rehabilitation of structures, as described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(b)
Amount.
The maximum grant available for acquisition, rehabilitation, or acquisition and rehabilitation is the lower of:
(1) $200,000; or
(2) The total cost of the acquisition, rehabilitation, or acquisition and rehabilitation minus the applicant's contribution toward the cost.
(c)
Increased amounts.
In areas determined by HUD to have high acquisition and rehabilitation costs, grants of more than $200,000, but not more than $400,000, may be available.
§ 583.110
Grants for new construction.
(a)
Use.
HUD will grant funds to recipients to pay a portion of the cost of new construction, including cost-effective energy measures and the cost of land associated with that construction, for use in the provision of supportive housing. If the grant funds are used for new construction, the applicant must demonstrate that the costs associated with new construction are substantially less than the costs associated with rehabilitation or that there is a lack of available appropriate units that could be rehabilitated at a cost less than new construction. For purposes of this cost comparison, costs associated with rehabilitation or new construction may include the cost of real property acquisition.
(b)
Amount.
The maximum grant available for new construction is the lower of:
(1) $400,000; or
(2) The total cost of the new construction, including the cost of land associated with that construction, minus the applicant's contribution toward the cost of same.
§ 583.115
Grants for leasing.
(a)
General.
HUD will provide grants to pay (as described in § 583.130 of this part) for the actual costs of leasing a structure or structures, or portions thereof, used to provide supportive housing or supportive services for up to five years.
(b)(1)
Leasing structures.
Where grants are used to pay rent for all or part of structures, the rent paid must be reasonable in relation to rents being charged in the area for comparable space. In addition, the rent paid may not exceed rents currently being charged by the same owner for comparable space.
(2)
Leasing individual units.
Where grants are used to pay rent for individual housing units, the rent paid must be reasonable in relation to rents being charged for comparable units, taking into account the location, size, type, quality, amenities, facilities, and management services. In addition, the rents may not exceed rents currently being charged by the same owner for comparable unassisted units, and the portion of rents paid with grant funds may not exceed HUD-determined fair market rents. Recipients may use grant funds in an amount up to one month's rent to pay the non-recipient landlord for any damages to leased units by homeless participants.
[58 FR 13871, Mar. 15, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 36891, July 19, 1994]
§ 583.120
Grants for supportive services costs.
(a)
General.
HUD will provide grants to pay (as described in § 583.130 of this part) for the actual costs of supportive services for homeless persons for up to five years. All or part of the supportive services may be provided directly by the recipient or by arrangement with public or private service providers.
(b)
Supportive services costs.
Costs associated with providing supportive services include salaries paid to providers of supportive services and any other costs directly associated with providing such services. For a transitional housing project, supportive services costs also include the costs of services provided to former residents of transitional housing to assist their adjustment to independent living. Such services may be provided for up to six months after they leave the transitional housing facility.
[58 FR 13871, Mar. 15, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 36891, July 19, 1994]
§ 583.125
Grants for operating costs.
(a)
General.
HUD will provide grants to pay a portion (as described in § 583.130) of the actual operating costs of supportive housing for up to five years.
(b)
Operating costs.
Operating costs are those associated with the day-to-day operation of the supportive housing. They also include the actual expenses that a recipient incurs for conducting on-going assessments of the supportive services needed by residents and the availability of such services; relocation assistance under § 583.310, including payments and services; and insurance.
(c)
Recipient match requirement for operating costs.
Assistance for operating costs will be available for up to 75 percent of the total cost in each year of the grant term. The recipient must pay the percentage of the actual operating costs not funded by HUD. At the end of each operating year, the recipient must demonstrate that it has met its match requirement of the costs for that year.
[58 FR 13871, Mar. 15, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 51175, Sept. 30, 1996; 65 FR 30823, May 12, 2000]
§ 583.130
Commitment of grant amounts for leasing, supportive services, and operating costs.
Upon execution of a grant agreement covering assistance for leasing, supportive services, or operating costs, HUD will obligate amounts for a period not to exceed five operating years. The total amount obligated will be equal to an amount necessary for the specified years of operation, less the recipient's share of operating costs.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under OMB control number 2506-0112)
[59 FR 36891, July 19, 1994]
§ 583.135
Administrative costs.
(a)
General.
Up to five percent of any grant awarded under this part may be used for the purpose of paying costs of administering the assistance.
(b)
Administrative costs.
Administrative costs include the costs associated with accounting for the use of grant funds, preparing reports for submission to HUD, obtaining program audits, similar costs related to administering the grant after the award, and staff salaries associated with these administrative costs. They do not include the costs of carrying out eligible activities under §§ 583.105 through 583.125.
[58 FR 13871, Mar. 15, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 51175, Sept. 30, 1996]
§ 583.140
Technical assistance.
(a)
General.
HUD may set aside funds annually to provide technical assistance, either directly by HUD staff or indirectly through third-party providers, for any supportive housing project. This technical assistance is for the purpose of promoting the development of supportive housing and supportive services as part of a continuum of care approach, including innovative approaches to assist homeless persons in the transition from homelessness, and promoting the provision of supportive housing to homeless persons to enable them to live as independently as possible.
(b)
Uses of technical assistance.
HUD may use these funds to provide technical assistance to prospective applicants, applicants, recipients, or other providers of supportive housing or services for homeless persons, for supportive housing projects. The assistance may include, but is not limited to, written information such as papers, monographs, manuals, guides, and brochures; person-to-person exchanges; and training and related costs.
(c)
Selection of providers.
From time to time, as HUD determines the need, HUD may advertise and competitively
select providers to deliver technical assistance. HUD may enter into contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements, when necessary, to implement the technical assistance.
[59 FR 36892, July 19, 1994]
§ 583.145
Matching requirements.
(a)
General.
The recipient must match the funds provided by HUD for grants for acquisition, rehabilitation, and new construction with an equal amount of funds from other sources.
(b)
Cash resources.
The matching funds must be cash resources provided to the project by one or more of the following: the recipient, the Federal government, State and local governments, and private resources, in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 11386. This statute provides that a recipient may use funds from any source, including any other Federal source (but excluding the specific statutory subtitle from which Supportive Housing Program funds are provided), as well as State, local, and private sources, provided that funds from the other source are not statutorily prohibited to be used as a match. It is the responsibility of the recipient to ensure that any funds used to satisfy the matching requirements of this section are eligible under the laws governing the funds to be used as matching funds for a grant awarded under this program.
(c)
Maintenance of effort.
State or local government funds used in the matching contribution are subject to the maintenance of effort requirements described at § 583.150(a).
[58 FR 13871, Mar. 15, 1993, as amended at 73 FR 75326, Dec. 11, 2008]
§ 583.150
Limitations on use of assistance.
(a)
Maintenance of effort.
No assistance provided under this part (or any State or local government funds used to supplement this assistance) may be used to replace State or local funds previously used, or designated for use, to assist homeless persons.
(b)
Faith-based activities.
(1) Organizations that are religious or faith-based are eligible, on the same basis as any other organization, to participate in the Supportive Housing Program. Neither the Federal government nor a State or local government receiving funds under Supportive Housing programs shall discriminate against an organization on the basis of the organization's religious character or affiliation.
(2) Organizations that are directly funded under the Supportive Housing Program may not engage in inherently religious activities, such as worship, religious instruction, or proselytization as part of the programs or services funded under this part. If an organization conducts such activities, the activities must be offered separately, in time or location, from the programs or services funded under this part, and participation must be voluntary for the beneficiaries of the HUD-funded programs or services.
(3) A religious organization that participates in the Supportive Housing Program will retain its independence from Federal, State, and local governments, and may continue to carry out its mission, including the definition, practice, and expression of its religious beliefs, provided that it does not use direct Supportive Housing Program funds to support any inherently religious activities, such as worship, religious instruction, or proselytization. Among other things, faith-based organizations may use space in their facilities to provide Supportive Housing Program-funded services, without removing religious art, icons, scriptures, or other religious symbols. In addition, a Supportive Housing Program-funded religious organization retains its authority over its internal governance, and it may retain religious terms in its organization's name, select its board members on a religious basis, and include religious references in its organization's mission statements and other governing documents.
(4) An organization that participates in the Supportive Housing Program shall not, in providing program assistance, discriminate against a program beneficiary or prospective program beneficiary on the basis of religion or religious belief.
(5) Program funds may not be used for the acquisition, construction, or rehabilitation of structures to the extent that those structures are used for inherently religious activities. Program
funds may be used for the acquisition, construction, or rehabilitation of structures only to the extent that those structures are used for conducting eligible activities under this part. Where a structure is used for both eligible and inherently religious activities, program funds may not exceed the cost of those portions of the acquisition, construction, or rehabilitation that are attributable to eligible activities in accordance with the cost accounting requirements applicable to Supportive Housing Program funds in this part. Sanctuaries, chapels, or other rooms that a Supportive Housing Program-funded religious congregation uses as its principal place of worship, however, are ineligible for Supportive Housing Program-funded improvements. Disposition of real property after the term of the grant, or any change in use of the property during the term of the grant, is subject to government-wide regulations governing real property disposition (
see
24 CFR parts 84 and 85 (as revised April 1, 2013)).
(6) If a State or local government voluntarily contributes its own funds to supplement federally funded activities, the State or local government has the option to segregate the Federal funds or commingle them. However, if the funds are commingled, this section applies to all of the commingled funds.
(c)
Participant control of site.
Where an applicant does not propose to have control of a site or sites but rather proposes to assist a homeless family or individual in obtaining a lease, which may include assistance with rent payments and receiving supportive services, after which time the family or individual remains in the same housing without further assistance under this part, that applicant may not request assistance for acquisition, rehabilitation, or new construction.
[58 FR 13871, Mar. 15, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 36892, July 19, 1993; 68 FR 56407, Sept. 30, 2003; 80 FR 75940, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 583.155
Consolidated plan.
(a)
Applicants that are States or units of general local government.
The applicant must have a HUD-approved complete or abbreviated consolidated plan, in accordance with 24 CFR part 91, and must submit a certification that the application for funding is consistent with the HUD-approved consolidated plan. Funded applicants must certify in a grant agreement that they are following the HUD-approved consolidated plan.
(b)
Applicants that are not States or units of general local government.
The applicant must submit a certification by the jurisdiction in which the proposed project will be located that the applicant's application for funding is consistent with the jurisdiction's HUD-approved consolidated plan. The certification must be made by the unit of general local government or the State, in accordance with the consistency certification provisions of the consolidated plan regulations, 24 CFR part 91, subpart F.
(c)
Indian tribes and the Insular Areas of Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and the Northern Mariana Islands.
These entities are not required to have a consolidated plan or to make consolidated plan certifications. An application by an Indian tribe or other applicant for a project that will be located on a reservation of an Indian tribe will not require a certification by the tribe or the State. However, where an Indian tribe is the applicant for a project that will not be located on a reservation, the requirement for a certification under paragraph (b) of this section will apply.
(d)
Timing of consolidated plan certification submissions.
Unless otherwise set forth in the NOFA, the required certification that the application for funding is consistent with the HUD-approved consolidated plan must be submitted by the funding application submission deadline announced in the NOFA.
[60 FR 16380, Mar. 30, 1995]

# Subpart C—Application and Grant Award Process
§ 583.200
Application and grant award.
When funds are made available for assistance, HUD will publish a notice of funding availability (NOFA) in the
Federal Register,
in accordance with the requirements of 24 CFR part 4. HUD will review and screen applications in accordance with the requirements in
section 426 of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11386) and the guidelines, rating criteria, and procedures published in the NOFA.
[61 FR 51176, Sept. 30, 1996]
§ 583.230
Environmental review.
(a) Activities under this part are subject to HUD environmental regulations in part 58 of this title, except that HUD will perform an environmental review in accordance with part 50 of this title prior to its approval of any conditionally selected applications for Fiscal Year 2000 and prior years that were received directly from private nonprofit entities and governmental entities with special or limited purpose powers. For activities under a grant that generally would be subject to review under part 58, HUD may make a finding in accordance with § 58.11(d) and may itself perform the environmental review under the provisions of part 50 of this title if the recipient objects in writing to the responsible entity's performing the review under part 58. Irrespective of whether the responsible entity in accord with part 58 (or HUD in accord with part 50) performs the environmental review, the recipient shall supply all available, relevant information necessary for the responsible entity (or HUD, if applicable) to perform for each property any environmental review required by this part. The recipient also shall carry out mitigating measures required by the responsible entity (or HUD, if applicable) or select alternate eligible property. HUD may eliminate from consideration any application that would require an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS).
(b) The recipient, its project partners and their contractors may not acquire, rehabilitate, convert, lease, repair, dispose of, demolish or construct property for a project under this part, or commit or expend HUD or local funds for such eligible activities under this part, until the responsible entity (as defined in § 58.2 of this title) has completed the environmental review procedures required by part 58 and the environmental certification and RROF have been approved or HUD has performed an environmental review under part 50 and the recipient has received HUD approval of the property. HUD will not release grant funds if the recipient or any other party commits grant funds (
i.e.,
incurs any costs or expenditures to be paid or reimbursed with such funds) before the recipient submits and HUD approves its RROF (where such submission is required).
[68 FR 56131, Sept. 29, 2003]
§ 583.235
Renewal grants.
(a)
General.
Grants made under this part, and grants made under subtitles C and D (the Supportive Housing Demonstration and SAFAH, respectively) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act as in effect before October 28, 1992, may be renewed on a noncompetitive basis to continue ongoing leasing, operations, and supportive services for additional years beyond the initial funding period. To be considered for renewal funding for leasing, operating costs, or supportive services, recipients must submit a request for such funding in the form specified by HUD, must meet the requirements of this part, and must submit requests within the time period established by HUD.
(b)
Assistance available.
The first renewal will be for a period of time not to exceed the difference between the end of the initial funding period and ten years from the date of initial occupancy or the date of initial service provision, as applicable. Any subsequent renewal will be for a period of time not to exceed five years. Assistance during each year of the renewal period, subject to maintenance of effort requirements under § 583.150(a) may be for:
(1) Up to 50 percent of the actual operating and leasing costs in the final year of the initial funding period;
(2) Up to the amount of HUD assistance for supportive services in the final year of the initial funding period; and
(3) An allowance for cost increases.
(c)
HUD review.
(1) HUD will review the request for renewal and will evaluate the recipient's performance in previous years against the plans and goals established in the initial application for assistance, as amended. HUD will approve the request for renewal unless the recipient proposes to serve a population that is not homeless, or the recipient has not shown adequate
progress as evidenced by an unacceptably slow expenditure of funds, or the recipient has been unsuccessful in assisting participants in achieving and maintaining independent living. In determining the recipient's success in assisting participants to achieve and maintain independent living, consideration will be given to the level and type of problems of participants. For recipients with a poor record of success, HUD will also consider the recipient's willingness to accept technical assistance and to make changes suggested by technical assistance providers. Other factors which will affect HUD's decision to approve a renewal request include the following: a continuing history of inadequate financial management accounting practices, indications of mismanagement on the part of the recipient, a drastic reduction in the population served by the recipient, program changes made by the recipient without prior HUD approval, and loss of project site.
(2) HUD reserves the right to reject a request from any organization with an outstanding obligation to HUD that is in arrears or for which a payment schedule has not been agreed to, or whose response to an audit finding is overdue or unsatisfactory.
(3) HUD will notify the recipient in writing that the request has been approved or disapproved.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506-0112)

# Subpart D—Program Requirements
§ 583.300
General operation.
(a)
State and local requirements.
Each recipient of assistance under this part must provide housing or services that are in compliance with all applicable State and local housing codes, licensing requirements, and any other requirements in the jurisdiction in which the project is located regarding the condition of the structure and the operation of the housing or services.
(b)
Habitability standards.
Except for such variations as are proposed by the recipient and approved by HUD, supportive housing must meet the following requirements:
(1)
Structure and materials.
The structures must be structurally sound so as not to pose any threat to the health and safety of the occupants and so as to protect the residents from the elements.
(2)
Access.
The housing must be accessible and capable of being utilized without unauthorized use of other private properties. Structures must provide alternate means of egress in case of fire.
(3)
Space and security.
Each resident must be afforded adequate space and security for themselves and their belongings. Each resident must be provided an acceptable place to sleep.
(4)
Interior air quality.
Every room or space must be provided with natural or mechanical ventilation. Structures must be free of pollutants in the air at levels that threaten the health of residents.
(5)
Water supply.
The water supply must be free from contamination.
(6)
Sanitary facilities.
Residents must have access to sufficient sanitary facilities that are in proper operating condition, may be used in privacy, and are adequate for personal cleanliness and the disposal of human waste.
(7)
Thermal environment.
The housing must have adequate heating and/or cooling facilities in proper operating condition.
(8)
Illumination and electricity.
The housing must have adequate natural or artificial illumination to permit normal indoor activities and to support the health and safety of residents. Sufficient electrical sources must be provided to permit use of essential electrical appliances while assuring safety from fire.
(9)
Food preparation and refuse disposal.
All food preparation areas must contain suitable space and equipment to store, prepare, and serve food in a sanitary manner.
(10)
Sanitary condition.
The housing and any equipment must be maintained in sanitary condition.
(11)
Fire safety.
(i) Each unit must include at least one battery-operated or hard-wired smoke detector, in proper working condition, on each occupied level of the unit. Smoke detectors must be located, to the extent practicable, in a hallway adjacent to a bedroom. If the unit is occupied by hearing-impaired persons, smoke detectors
must have an alarm system designed for hearing-impaired persons in each bedroom occupied by a hearing-impaired person.
(ii) The public areas of all housing must be equipped with a sufficient number, but not less than one for each area, of battery-operated or hard-wired smoke detectors. Public areas include, but are not limited to, laundry rooms, community rooms, day care centers, hallways, stairwells, and other common areas.
(c)
Meals.
Each recipient of assistance under this part who provides supportive housing for homeless persons with disabilities must provide meals or meal preparation facilities for residents.
(d)
Ongoing assessment of supportive services.
Each recipient of assistance under this part must conduct an ongoing assessment of the supportive services required by the residents of the project and the availability of such services, and make adjustments as appropriate.
(e)
Residential supervision.
Each recipient of assistance under this part must provide residential supervision as necessary to facilitate the adequate provision of supportive services to the residents of the housing throughout the term of the commitment to operate supportive housing. Residential supervision may include the employment of a full- or part-time residential supervisor with sufficient knowledge to provide or to supervise the provision of supportive services to the residents.
(f)
Participation of homeless persons.
(1) Each recipient must provide for the participation of homeless persons as required in section 426(g) of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11386(g)). This requirement is waived if an applicant is unable to meet it and presents a plan for HUD approval to otherwise consult with homeless or formerly homeless persons in considering and making policies and decisions. See also § 583.330(e).
(2) Each recipient of assistance under this part must, to the maximum extent practicable, involve homeless individuals and families, through employment, volunteer services, or otherwise, in constructing, rehabilitating, maintaining, and operating the project and in providing supportive services for the project.
(g)
Records and reports.
Each recipient of assistance under this part must keep any records and make any reports (including those pertaining to race, ethnicity, gender, and disability status data) that HUD may require within the timeframe required.
(h)
Confidentiality.
Each recipient that provides family violence prevention or treatment services must develop and implement procedures to ensure:
(1) The confidentiality of records pertaining to any individual services; and
(2) That the address or location of any project assisted will not be made public, except with written authorization of the person or persons responsible for the operation of the project.
(i)
Termination of housing assistance.
The recipient may terminate assistance to a participant who violates program requirements. Recipients should terminate assistance only in the most severe cases. Recipients may resume assistance to a participant whose assistance was previously terminated. In terminating assistance to a participant, the recipient must provide a formal process that recognizes the rights of individuals receiving assistance to due process of law. This process, at a minimum, must consist of:
(1) Written notice to the participant containing a clear statement of the reasons for termination;
(2) A review of the decision, in which the participant is given the opportunity to present written or oral objections before a person other than the person (or a subordinate of that person) who made or approved the termination decision; and
(3) Prompt written notice of the final decision to the participant.
(j)
Limitation of stay in transitional housing.
A homeless individual or family may remain in transitional housing for a period longer than 24 months, if permanent housing for the individual or family has not been located or if the individual or family requires additional time to prepare for independent living. However, HUD may discontinue assistance for a transitional housing
project if more than half of the homeless individuals or families remain in that project longer than 24 months.
(k)
Outpatient health services.
Outpatient health services provided by the recipient must be approved as appropriate by HUD and the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Upon receipt of an application that proposes the provision of outpatient health services, HUD will consult with HHS with respect to the appropriateness of the proposed services.
(l)
Annual assurances.
Recipients who receive assistance only for leasing, operating costs or supportive services costs must provide an annual assurance for each year such assistance is received that the project will be operated for the purpose specified in the application.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506-0112)
[58 FR 13871, Mar. 15, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 36892, July 19, 1994; 61 FR 51176, Sept. 30, 1996]
§ 583.301
Recordkeeping.
(a) [Reserved]
(b)
Homeless status.
The recipient must maintain and follow written intake procedures to ensure compliance with the homeless definition in § 583.5. The procedures must require documentation at intake of the evidence relied upon to establish and verify homeless status. The procedures must establish the order of priority for obtaining evidence as third-party documentation first, intake worker observations second, and certification from the person seeking assistance third. However, lack of third-party documentation must not prevent an individual or family from being immediately admitted to emergency shelter, receiving street outreach services, or being immediately admitted to shelter or receiving services provided by a victim service provider, as defined in section 401(32) of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, as amended by the HEARTH Act. Records contained in an HMIS or comparable database used by victim service or legal service providers are acceptable evidence of third-party documentation and intake worker observations if the HMIS retains an auditable history of all entries, including the person who entered the data, the date of entry, and the change made; and if the HMIS prevents overrides or changes of the dates on which entries are made.
(1) If the individual or family qualifies as homeless under paragraph (1)(i) or (ii) of the homeless definition in § 583.5, acceptable evidence includes a written observation by an outreach worker of the conditions where the individual or family was living, a written referral by another housing or service provider, or a certification by the individual or head of household seeking assistance.
(2) If the individual qualifies as homeless under paragraph (1)(iii) of the homeless definition in § 583.5, because he or she resided in an emergency shelter or place not meant for human habitation and is exiting an institution where he or she resided for 90 days or less, acceptable evidence includes the evidence described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and one of the following:
(i) Discharge paperwork or a written or oral referral from a social worker, case manager, or other appropriate official of the institution, stating the beginning and end dates of the time residing in the institution. All oral statements must be recorded by the intake worker; or
(ii) Where the evidence in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section is not obtainable, a written record of the intake worker's due diligence in attempting to obtain the evidence described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) and a certification by the individual seeking assistance that states he or she is exiting or has just exited an institution where he or she resided for 90 days or less.
(3) If the individual or family qualifies as homeless under paragraph (2) of the homeless definition in § 583.5, because the individual or family will imminently lose their housing, the evidence must include:
(i)(A) A court order resulting from an eviction action that requires the individual or family to leave their residence within 14 days after the date of their application for homeless assistance; or the equivalent notice under applicable state law, a Notice to Quit, or a Notice to Terminate issued under state law;
(B) For individuals and families whose primary nighttime residence is a hotel or motel room not paid for by charitable organizations or federal, state, or local government programs for low-income individuals, evidence that the individual or family lacks the resources necessary to reside there for more than 14 days after the date of application for homeless assistance; or
(C) An oral statement by the individual or head of household that the owner or renter of the housing in which they currently reside will not allow them to stay for more than 14 days after the date of application for homeless assistance. The intake worker must record the statement and certify that it was found credible. To be found credible, the oral statement must either: Be verified by the owner or renter of the housing in which the individual or family resides at the time of application for homeless assistance and documented by a written certification by the owner or renter or by the intake worker's recording of the owner or renter's oral statement; or if the intake worker is unable to contact the owner or renter, be documented by a written certification by the intake worker of his or her due diligence in attempting to obtain the owner or renter's verification and the written certification by the individual or head of household seeking assistance that his or her statement was true and complete;
(ii) Certification by the individual or head of household that no subsequent residence has been identified; and
(iii) Certification or other written documentation that the individual or family lacks the resources and support networks needed to obtain other permanent housing.
(4) If the individual or family qualifies as homeless under paragraph (3) of the homeless definition in § 583.5, because the individual or family does not otherwise qualify as homeless under the homeless definition but is an unaccompanied youth under 25 years of age, or homeless family with one or more children or youth, and is defined as homeless under another Federal statute or section 725(2) of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11434a(2)), the evidence must include:
(i) For paragraph (3)(i) of the homeless definition in § 583.5, certification of homeless status by the local private nonprofit organization or state or local governmental entity responsible for administering assistance under the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5701
et seq.
), the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9831
et seq.
), subtitle N of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 14043e
et seq.
), section 330 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254b), the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2011
et seq.
), section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786), or subtitle B of title VII of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11431
et seq.
), as applicable;
(ii) For paragraph (3)(ii) of the homeless definition in § 583.5, referral by a housing or service provider, written observation by an outreach worker, or certification by the homeless individual or head of household seeking assistance;
(iii) For paragraph (3)(iii) of the homeless definition in § 583.5, certification by the individual or head of household and any available supporting documentation that the individual or family moved two or more times during the 60-day period immediately preceding the date for application of homeless assistance, including: Recorded statements or records obtained from each owner or renter of housing, provider of shelter or housing, or social worker, case worker, or other appropriate official of a hospital or institution in which the individual or family resided; or, where these statements or records are unobtainable, a written record of the intake worker's due diligence in attempting to obtain these statements or records. Where a move was due to the individual or family fleeing domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, then the intake worker may alternatively obtain a written certification from the individual or head of household seeking assistance that they were fleeing that situation and that they resided at that address; and
(iv) For paragraph (3)(iv) of the homeless definition in § 583.5, written
diagnosis from a professional who is licensed by the state to diagnose and treat that condition (or intake staff-recorded observation of disability that within 45 days of the date of application for assistance is confirmed by a professional who is licensed by the state to diagnose and treat that condition); employment records; department of corrections records; literacy, English proficiency tests; or other reasonable documentation of the conditions required under paragraph (3)(iv) of the homeless definition.
(5) If the individual or family qualifies under paragraph (4) of the homeless definition in § 583.5, because the individual or family is fleeing domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, or other dangerous or life-threatening conditions related to violence, then acceptable evidence includes an oral statement by the individual or head of household seeking assistance that they are fleeing that situation, that no subsequent residence has been identified, and that they lack the resources or support networks, e.g., family, friends, faith-based or other social networks, needed to obtain other housing. If the individual or family is receiving shelter or services provided by a victim service provider, as defined in section 401(32) of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, as amended by the HEARTH Act, the oral statement must be documented by either a certification by the individual or head of household; or a certification by the intake worker. Otherwise, the oral statement that the individual or head of household seeking assistance has not identified a subsequent residence and lacks the resources or support networks, e.g., family, friends, faith-based or other social networks, needed to obtain housing, must be documented by a certification by the individual or head of household that the oral statement is true and complete, and, where the safety of the individual or family would not be jeopardized, the domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, or other dangerous or life-threatening condition must be verified by a written observation by the intake worker; or a written referral by a housing or service provider, social worker, health-care provider, law enforcement agency, legal assistance provider, pastoral counselor, or any another organization from whom the individual or head of household has sought assistance for domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking. The written referral or observation need only include the minimum amount of information necessary to document that the individual or family is fleeing, or attempting to flee domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.
(c)
Disability.
—Each recipient of assistance under this part must maintain and follow written intake procedures to ensure that the assistance benefits persons with disabilities, as defined in § 583.5. In addition to the documentation required under paragraph (b) of this section, the procedures must require documentation at intake of the evidence relied upon to establish and verify the disability of the person applying for homeless assistance. The recipient must keep these records for 5 years after the end of the grant term. Acceptable evidence of the disability includes:
(1) Written verification of the disability from a professional licensed by the state to diagnose and treat the disability and his or her certification that the disability is expected to be long-continuing or of indefinite duration and substantially impedes the individual's ability to live independently;
(2) Written verification from the Social Security Administration;
(3) The receipt of a disability check (e.g., Social Security Disability Insurance check or Veteran Disability Compensation);
(4) Other documentation approved by HUD; or
(5) Intake staff-recorded observation of disability that, no later than 45 days of the application for assistance, is confirmed and accompanied by evidence in paragraph (c)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section.
[76 FR 76017, Dec. 5, 2011]
§ 583.305
Term of commitment; repayment of grants; prevention of undue benefits.
(a)
Term of commitment and conversion.
Recipients must agree to operate the housing or provide supportive services
in accordance with this part and with sections 423 (b)(1) and (b)(3) of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11383(b)(1), 11383(b)(3)).
(b)
Repayment of grant and prevention of undue benefits.
In accordance with section 423(c) of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11383(c)), HUD will require recipients to repay the grant unless HUD has authorized conversion of the project under section 423(b)(3) of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11383(b)(3)).
[61 FR 51176, Sept. 30, 1996]
§ 583.310
Displacement, relocation, and acquisition.
(a)
Minimizing displacement.
Consistent with the other goals and objectives of this part, recipients must assure that they have taken all reasonable steps to minimize the displacement of persons (families, individuals, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and farms) as a result of supportive housing assisted under this part.
(b)
Relocation assistance for displaced persons.
A displaced person (defined in paragraph (f) of this section) must be provided relocation assistance at the levels described in, and in accordance with, the requirements of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (URA) (42 U.S.C. 4601-4655) and implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24.
(c)
Real property acquisition requirements.
The acquisition of real property for supportive housing is subject to the URA and the requirements described in 49 CFR part 24, subpart B.
(d)
Responsibility of recipient.
(1) The recipient must certify (
i.e.,
provide assurance of compliance) that it will comply with the URA, the regulations at 49 CFR part 24, and the requirements of this section, and must ensure such compliance notwithstanding any third party's contractual obligation to the recipient to comply with these provisions.
(2) The cost of required relocation assistance is an eligible project cost in the same manner and to the same extent as other project costs. Such costs also may be paid for with local public funds or funds available from other sources.
(3) The recipient must maintain records in sufficient detail to demonstrate compliance with provisions of this section.
(e)
Appeals.
A person who disagrees with the recipient's determination concerning whether the person qualifies as a “displaced person,” or the amount of relocation assistance for which the person is eligible, may file a written appeal of that determination with the recipient. A low-income person who is dissatisfied with the recipient's determination on his or her appeal may submit a written request for review of that determination to the HUD field office.
(f)
Definition of displaced person.
(1) For purposes of this section, the term “displaced person” means a person (family, individual, business, nonprofit organization, or farm) that moves from real property, or moves personal property from real property permanently as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for supportive housing projects assisted under this part. The term “displaced person” includes, but may not be limited to:
(i) A person that moves permanently from the real property after the property owner (or person in control of the site) issues a vacate notice, or refuses to renew an expiring lease in order to evade the responsibility to provide relocation assistance, if the move occurs on or after the date the recipient submits to HUD the application or application amendment designating the project site.
(ii) Any person, including a person who moves before the date described in paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, if the recipient or HUD determines that the displacement resulted directly from acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for the assisted project.
(iii) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling unit who moves permanently from the building/complex on or after the date of the “initiation of negotiations” (see paragraph (g) of this section) if the move occurs before the tenant has been provided written notice offering him or her the opportunity to lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe and sanitary dwelling in the same building/complex, under reasonable terms and conditions, upon completion of the project. Such reasonable terms and conditions must include a monthly rent and estimated average monthly
utility costs that do not exceed the greater of:
(A) The tenant's monthly rent before the initiation of negotiations and estimated average utility costs, or
(B) 30 percent of gross household income. If the initial rent is at or near the maximum, there must be a reasonable basis for concluding at the time the project is initiated that future rent increases will be modest.
(iv) A tenant of a dwelling who is required to relocate temporarily, but does not return to the building/complex, if either:
(A) A tenant is not offered payment for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation, or
(B) Other conditions of the temporary relocation are not reasonable.
(v) A tenant of a dwelling who moves from the building/complex permanently after he or she has been required to move to another unit in the same building/complex, if either:
(A) The tenant is not offered reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the move; or
(B) Other conditions of the move are not reasonable.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, a person does not qualify as a “displaced person” (and is not eligible for relocation assistance under the URA or this section), if:
(i) The person has been evicted for serious or repeated violation of the terms and conditions of the lease or occupancy agreement, violation of applicable Federal, State, or local or tribal law, or other good cause, and HUD determines that the eviction was not undertaken for the purpose of evading the obligation to provide relocation assistance;
(ii) The person moved into the property after the submission of the application and, before signing a lease and commencing occupancy, was provided written notice of the project, its possible impact on the person (e.g., the person may be displaced, temporarily relocated, or suffer a rent increase) and the fact that the person would not qualify as a “displaced person” (or for any assistance provided under this section), if the project is approved;
(iii) The person is ineligible under 49 CFR 24.2(g)(2); or
(iv) HUD determines that the person was not displaced as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for the project.
(3) The recipient may request, at any time, HUD's determination of whether a displacement is or would be covered under this section.
(g)
Definition of initiation of negotiations.
For purposes of determining the formula for computing the replacement housing assistance to be provided to a residential tenant displaced as a direct result of privately undertaken rehabilitation, demolition, or acquisition of the real property, the term “initiation of negotiations” means the execution of the agreement between the recipient and HUD.
(h)
Definition of project.
For purposes of this section, the term “project” means an undertaking paid for in whole or in part with assistance under this part. Two or more activities that are integrally related, each essential to the others, are considered a single project, whether or not all component activities receive assistance under this part.
[58 FR 13871, Mar. 15, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 36892, July 19, 1994]
§ 583.315
Resident rent.
(a)
Calculation of resident rent.
Each resident of supportive housing may be required to pay as rent an amount determined by the recipient which may not exceed the highest of:
(1) 30 percent of the family's monthly adjusted income (adjustment factors include the number of people in the family, age of family members, medical expenses and child care expenses). The calculation of the family's monthly adjusted income must include the expense deductions provided in 24 CFR 5.611(a), and for persons with disabilities, the calculation of the family's monthly adjusted income also must include the disallowance of earned income as provided in 24 CFR 5.617, if applicable;
(2) 10 percent of the family's monthly gross income; or
(3) If the family is receiving payments for welfare assistance from a public agency and a part of the payments, adjusted in accordance with the family's actual housing costs, is specifically designated by the agency to meet the family's housing costs, the portion of the payment that is designated for housing costs.
(b)
Use of rent.
Resident rent may be used in the operation of the project or may be reserved, in whole or in part, to assist residents of transitional housing in moving to permanent housing.
(c)
Fees.
In addition to resident rent, recipients may charge residents reasonable fees for services not paid with grant funds.
[58 FR 13871, Mar. 15, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 36892, July 19, 1994; 66 FR 6225, Jan. 19, 2001]
§ 583.320
Site control.
(a)
Site control.
(1) Where grant funds will be used for acquisition, rehabilitation, or new construction to provide supportive housing or supportive services, or where grant funds will be used for operating costs of supportive housing, or where grant funds will be used to provide supportive services except where an applicant will provide services at sites not operated by the applicant, an applicant must demonstrate site control before HUD will execute a grant agreement (
e.g.,
through a deed, lease, executed contract of sale). If such site control is not demonstrated within one year after initial notification of the award of assistance under this part, the grant will be deobligated as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) Where grant funds will be used to lease all or part of a structure to provide supportive housing or supportive services, or where grant funds will be used to lease individual housing units for homeless persons who will eventually control the units, site control need not be demonstrated.
(b)
Site change.
(1) A recipient may obtain ownership or control of a suitable site different from the one specified in its application. Retention of an assistance award is subject to the new site's meeting all requirements under this part for suitable sites.
(2) If the acquisition, rehabilitation, acquisition and rehabilitation, or new construction costs for the substitute site are greater than the amount of the grant awarded for the site specified in the application, the recipient must provide for all additional costs. If the recipient is unable to demonstrate to HUD that it is able to provide for the difference in costs, HUD may deobligate the award of assistance.
(c)
Failure to obtain site control within one year.
HUD will recapture or deobligate any award for assistance under this part if the recipient is not in control of a suitable site before the expiration of one year after initial notification of an award.
§ 583.325
Nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements.
(a)
General.
Notwithstanding the permissibility of proposals that serve designated populations of disabled homeless persons, recipients serving a designated population of disabled homeless persons are required, within the designated population, to comply with these requirements for nondiscrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, familial status, and disability.
(b)
Nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements.
The nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements set forth at part 5 of this title apply to this program. The Indian Civil Rights Act (25 U.S.C. 1301
et seq.
) applies to tribes when they exercise their powers of self-government, and to Indian housing authorities (IHAs) when established by the exercise of such powers. When an IHA is established under State law, the applicability of the Indian Civil Rights Act will be determined on a case-by-case basis. Projects subject to the Indian Civil Rights Act must be developed and operated in compliance with its provisions and all implementing HUD requirements, instead of title VI and the Fair Housing Act and their implementing regulations.
(c)
Procedures.
(1) If the procedures that the recipient intends to use to make known the availability of the supportive housing are unlikely to reach persons of any particular race,
color, religion, sex, age, national origin, familial status, or handicap who may qualify for admission to the housing, the recipient must establish additional procedures that will ensure that such persons can obtain information concerning availability of the housing.
(2) The recipient must adopt procedures to make available information on the existence and locations of facilities and services that are accessible to persons with a handicap and maintain evidence of implementation of the procedures.
(d)
Accessibility requirements.
The recipient must comply with the new construction accessibility requirements of the Fair Housing Act and section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and the reasonable accommodation and rehabilitation accessibility requirements of section 504 as follows:
(1) All new construction must meet the accessibility requirements of 24 CFR 8.22 and, as applicable, 24 CFR 100.205.
(2) Projects in which costs of rehabilitation are 75 percent or more of the replacement cost of the building must meet the requirements of 24 CFR 8.23(a). Other rehabilitation must meet the requirements of 24 CFR 8.23(b).
[58 FR 13871, Mar. 15, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 33894, June 30, 1994; 61 FR 5210, Feb. 9, 1996; 61 FR 51176, Sept. 30, 1996]
§ 583.330
Applicability of other Federal requirements.
In addition to the requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 5, use of assistance provided under this part must comply with the following Federal requirements:
(a)
Flood insurance.
(1) The Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4001-4128) prohibits the approval of applications for assistance for acquisition or construction (including rehabilitation) for supportive housing located in an area identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) as having special flood hazards, unless:
(i) The community in which the area is situated is participating in the National Flood Insurance Program (see 44 CFR parts 59 through 79), or less than a year has passed since FEMA notification regarding such hazards; and
(ii) Flood insurance is obtained as a condition of approval of the application.
(2) Applicants with supportive housing located in an area identified by FEMA as having special flood hazards and receiving assistance for acquisition or construction (including rehabilitation) are responsible for assuring that flood insurance under the National Flood Insurance Program is obtained and maintained.
(b) The Coastal Barrier Resources Act of 1982 (16 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
) may apply to proposals under this part, depending on the assistance requested.
(c)
Uniform requirements.
The policies, guidelines, and requirements of 24 CFR part 85 (as revised April 1, 2013) apply to the award, acceptance, and use of assistance under the program by governmental entities, and 24 CFR part 84 (as revised April 1, 2013) apply to the acceptance and use of assistance by private nonprofit organizations, except where inconsistent with the provisions of the McKinney Act, other Federal statutes, or this part.
(d)
Lead-based paint.
The Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act (42 U.S.C. 4821-4846), the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 4851-4856), and implementing regulations at part 35, subparts A, B, J, K, and R of this title apply to activities under this program.
(e)
Conflicts of interest.
(1) In addition to the conflict of interest requirements in 24 CFR part 85 (as revised April 1, 2013), no person who is an employee, agent, consultant, officer, or elected or appointed official of the recipient and who exercises or has exercised any functions or responsibilities with respect to assisted activities, or who is in a position to participate in a decisionmaking process or gain inside information with regard to such activities, may obtain a personal or financial interest or benefit from the activity, or have an interest in any contract, subcontract, or agreement with respect thereto, or the proceeds thereunder, either for himself or herself or for those with whom he or she has family or business ties, during his or her tenure or for one year thereafter. Participation by homeless individuals who also are participants under the program in
policy or decisionmaking under § 583.300(f) does not constitute a conflict of interest.
(2) Upon the written request of the recipient, HUD may grant an exception to the provisions of paragraph (e)(1) of this section on a case-by-case basis when it determines that the exception will serve to further the purposes of the program and the effective and efficient administration of the recipient's project. An exception may be considered only after the recipient has provided the following:
(i) For States and other governmental entities, a disclosure of the nature of the conflict, accompanied by an assurance that there has been public disclosure of the conflict and a description of how the public disclosure was made; and
(ii) For all recipients, an opinion of the recipient's attorney that the interest for which the exception is sought would not violate State or local law.
(3) In determining whether to grant a requested exception after the recipient has satisfactorily met the requirement of paragraph (e)(2) of this section, HUD will consider the cumulative effect of the following factors, where applicable:
(i) Whether the exception would provide a significant cost benefit or an essential degree of expertise to the project which would otherwise not be available;
(ii) Whether the person affected is a member of a group or class of eligible persons and the exception will permit such person to receive generally the same interests or benefits as are being made available or provided to the group or class;
(iii) Whether the affected person has withdrawn from his or her functions or responsibilities, or the decisionmaking process with respect to the specific assisted activity in question;
(iv) Whether the interest or benefit was present before the affected person was in a position as described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section;
(v) Whether undue hardship will result either to the recipient or the person affected when weighed against the public interest served by avoiding the prohibited conflict; and
(vi) Any other relevant considerations.
(f)
Audit.
The financial management systems used by recipients under this program must provide for audits in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F. HUD may perform or require additional audits as it finds necessary or appropriate.
(g) Davis-Bacon Act. The provisions of the Davis-Bacon Act do not apply to this program.
[58 FR 13871, Mar. 15, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 5211, Feb. 9, 1996; 64 FR 50226, Sept. 15, 1999; 80 FR 75940, Dec. 7, 2015]

# Subpart E—Administration
§ 583.400
Grant agreement.
(a)
General.
The duty to provide supportive housing or supportive services in accordance with the requirements of this part will be incorporated in a grant agreement executed by HUD and the recipient.
(b)
Enforcement.
HUD will enforce the obligations in the grant agreement through such action as may be appropriate, including repayment of funds that have already been disbursed to the recipient.
§ 583.405
Program changes.
(a)
HUD approval.
(1) A recipient may not make any significant changes to an approved program without prior HUD approval. Significant changes include, but are not limited to, a change in the recipient, a change in the project site, additions or deletions in the types of activities listed in § 583.100 of this part approved for the program or a shift of more than 10 percent of funds from one approved type of activity to another, and a change in the category of participants to be served. Depending on the nature of the change, HUD may require a new certification of consistency with the consolidated plan (see § 583.155).
(2) Approval for changes is contingent upon the application ranking remaining high enough after the approved change to have been competitively selected for funding in the year the application was selected.
(b)
Documentation of other changes.
Any changes to an approved program that do not require prior HUD approval
must be fully documented in the recipient's records.
[58 FR 13871, Mar. 15, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 51176, Sept. 30, 1996]
§ 583.410
Obligation and deobligation of funds.
(a)
Obligation of funds.
When HUD and the applicant execute a grant agreement, funds are obligated to cover the amount of the approved assistance under subpart B of this part. The recipient will be expected to carry out the supportive housing or supportive services activities as proposed in the application.
(b)
Increases.
After the initial obligation of funds, HUD will not make revisions to increase the amount obligated.
(c)
Deobligation.
(1) HUD may deobligate all or parts of grants for acquisition, rehabilitation, acquisition and rehabilitation, or new construction:
(i) If the actual total cost of acquisition, rehabilitation, acquisition and rehabilitation, or new construction is less than the total cost anticipated in the application; or
(ii) If proposed activities for which funding was approved are not begun within three months or residents do not begin to occupy the facility within nine months after grant execution.
(2) HUD may deobligate the amounts for annual leasing costs, operating costs or supportive services in any year:
(i) If the actual leasing costs, operating costs or supportive services for that year are less than the total cost anticipated in the application; or
(ii) If the proposed supportive housing operations are not begun within three months after the units are available for occupancy.
(3) The grant agreement may set forth in detail other circumstances under which funds may be deobligated, and other sanctions may be imposed.
(4) HUD may:
(i) Readvertise the availability of funds that have been deobligated under this section in a notice of fund availability under § 583.200, or
(ii) Award deobligated funds to applications previously submitted in response to the most recently published notice of fund availability, and in accordance with subpart C of this part.
Pt. 586

# PART 586—REVITALIZING BASE CLOSURE COMMUNITIES AND COMMUNITY ASSISTANCE—COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AND HOMELESS ASSISTANCE
Sec.
586.1
Purpose.
586.5
Definitions.
586.10
Applicability.
586.15
Waivers and extensions of deadlines.
586.20
Overview of the process.
586.25
HUD's negotiations and consultations with the LRA.
586.30
LRA application.
586.35
HUD's review of the application.
586.40
Adverse determinations.
586.45
Disposal of buildings and property.

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 2687
note;
42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
62 FR 37479, July 11, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 586.1
Purpose.
This part implements the Base Closure Community Redevelopment and Homeless Assistance Act, as amended (10 U.S.C. 2687
note
), which instituted a new community-based process for addressing the needs of the homeless at base closure and realignment sites. In this process, Local Redevelopment Authorities (LRAs) identify interest from homeless providers in installation property and develop a redevelopment plan for the installation that balances the economic redevelopment and other development needs of the communities in the vicinity of the installation with the needs of the homeless in those communities. The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) reviews the LRA's plan to see that an appropriate balance is achieved. This part also implements the process for identifying interest from State and local entities for property under a public benefit transfer. The LRA is responsible for concurrently identifying interest from homeless providers and State and local entities interested in property under a public benefit transfer.
§ 586.5
Definitions.
As used in this part:
CERCLA.
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601
et seq.
).
Communities in the vicinity of the installation.
The communities that constitute the political jurisdictions (other than the State in which the installation is located) that comprise the LRA for the installation. If no LRA is formed at the local level, and the State is serving in that capacity, the communities in the vicinity of the installation are deemed to be those political jurisdiction(s) (other than the State) in which the installation is located.
Consolidated Plan.
The plan prepared in accordance with the requirements of 24 CFR part 91.
Continuum of care system.
(1) A comprehensive homeless assistance system that includes:
(i) A system of outreach and assessment for determining the needs and condition of an individual or family who is homeless, or whether assistance is necessary to prevent an individual or family from becoming homeless;
(ii) Emergency shelters with appropriate supportive services to help ensure that homeless individuals and families receive adequate emergency shelter and referral to necessary service providers or housing finders;
(iii) Transitional housing with appropriate supportive services to help those homeless individuals and families who are not prepared to make the transition to independent living;
(iv) Housing with or without supportive services that has no established limitation on the amount of time of residence to help meet long-term needs of homeless individuals and families; and
(v) Any other activity that clearly meets an identified need of the homeless and fills a gap in the continuum of care.
(2) Supportive services are services that enable homeless persons and families to move through the continuum of care toward independent living. These services include, but are not limited to, case management, housing counseling, job training and placement, primary health care, mental health services, substance abuse treatment, child care, transportation, emergency food and clothing, family violence services, education services, moving services, assistance in obtaining entitlements, and referral to veterans services and legal services.
Day.
One calendar day including weekends and holidays.
DoD.
Department of Defense.
HHS.
Department of Health and Human Services.
Homeless person.
(1) An individual or family who lacks a fixed, regular, and adequate nighttime residence; and
(2) An individual or family who has a primary nighttime residence that is:
(i) A supervised publicly or privately operated shelter designed to provide temporary living accommodations (including welfare hotels, congregate shelters and transitional housing for the mentally ill);
(ii) An institution that provides a temporary residence for individuals intended to be institutionalized; or
(iii) A public or private place not designed for, or ordinarily used as, a regular sleeping accommodation for human beings.
(3) This term does not include any individual imprisoned or otherwise detained under an Act of the Congress or a State law.
HUD. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Installation.
A base, camp, post, station, yard, center, homeport facility for any ship or other activity under the jurisdiction of DoD, including any leased facility, that is approved for closure or realignment under the Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100-526), as amended, or the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-510), as amended (both at 10 U.S.C. 2687,
note
).
Local redevelopment authority (LRA).
Any authority or instrumentality established by State or local government and recognized by the Secretary of Defense, through the Office of Economic Adjustment, as the entity responsible for developing the redevelopment plan with respect to the installation or for directing implementation of the plan.
NEPA.
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4320).
OEA.
Office of Economic Adjustment, Department of Defense.
Private nonprofit organization.
An organization, no part of the net earnings
of which inures to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor, or individual; that has a voluntary board; that has an accounting system or has designated an entity that will maintain a functioning accounting system for the organization in accordance with generally accepted accounting procedures; and that practices nondiscrimination in the provision of assistance.
Public benefit transfer.
The transfer of surplus military property for a specified public purpose at up to a 100 percent discount in accordance with 40 U.S.C. 471
et seq.,
or 49 U.S.C. 47151-47153.
Redevelopment plan.
A plan that is agreed to by the LRA with respect to the installation and provides for the reuse or redevelopment of the real property and personal property of the installation that is available for such reuse and redevelopment as a result of the closure of the installation.
Representative(s) of the homeless.
A State or local government agency or private nonprofit organization, including a homeless assistance planning board, that provides or proposes to provide services to the homeless.
Substantially equivalent.
Property that is functionally suitable to substitute for property referred to in an approved Title V application. For example, if the representative of the homeless had an approved Title V application for a building that would accommodate 100 homeless persons in an emergency shelter, the replacement facility would also have to accommodate 100 at a comparable cost for renovation.
Substantially equivalent funding.
Sufficient funding to acquire a substantially equivalent facility.
Surplus property.
Any excess property not required for the needs and the discharge of the responsibilities of all Federal Agencies. Authority to make this determination, after screening with all Federal Agencies, rests with the Military Departments.
Title V.
Title V of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act of 1987 (42 U.S.C 11411) as amended by the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1994 (Pub. L. 103-160).
Urban county.
A county within a metropolitan area as defined at 24 CFR 570.3.
§ 586.10
Applicability.
(a)
General.
This part applies to all installations that are approved for closure/realignment by the President and Congress under Pub. L. 101-510 after October 25, 1994.
(b)
Request for inclusion under this process.
This part also applies to installations that were approved for closure/realignment under either Public Law 100-526 or Public Law 101-510 prior to October 25, 1994 and for which an LRA submitted a request for inclusion under this part to DoD by December 24, 1994. A list of such requests was published in the
Federal Register
on May 30, 1995 (60 FR 28089).
(1) For installations with Title V applications pending but not approved before October 25, 1994, the LRA shall consider and specifically address any application for use of buildings and property to assist the homeless that were received by HHS prior to October 25, 1994, and were pending with the Secretary of HHS on that date. These pending requests shall be addressed in the LRA's homeless assistance submission.
(2) For installations with Title V applications approved before October 25, 1994 where there is an approved Title V application, but property has not been assigned or otherwise disposed of by the Military Department, the LRA must ensure that its homeless assistance submission provides the Title V applicant with:
(i) The property requested;
(ii) Properties, on or off the installation, that are substantially equivalent to those requested;
(iii) Sufficient funding to acquire such substantially equivalent properties;
(iv) Services and activities that meet the needs identified in the application; or
(v) A combination of the properties, funding, and services and activities described in § 586.10(b)(2)(i) through (iv).
(c)
Revised Title V process.
All other installations approved for closure or realignment under either Public Law 100-526 or Public Law 101-510 prior to
October 25, 1994, for which there was no request for consideration under this part, are covered by the process stipulated under Title V. Buildings or property that were transferred or leased for homeless use under Title V prior to October 25, 1994, may not be reconsidered under this part.
§ 586.15
Waivers and extensions of deadlines.
(a) After consultation with the LRA and HUD, and upon a finding that it is in the interest of the communities affected by the closure/realignment of the installation, DoD, through the Director of the Office of Economic Adjustment, may extend or postpone any deadline contained in this part.
(b) Upon completion of a determination and finding of good cause, and except for deadlines and actions required on the part of DoD, HUD may waive any provision of §§ 586.20 through 586.45 in any particular case, subject only to statutory limitations.
§ 586.20
Overview of the process.
(a)
Recognition of the LRA.
As soon as practicable after the list of installations recommended for closure or realignment is approved, DoD, through OEA, will recognize an LRA for the installation. Upon recognition, OEA shall publish the name, address, and point of contact for the LRA in the
Federal Register
and in a newspaper of general circulation in the communities in the vicinity of the installation.
(b)
Responsibilities of the Military Department.
The Military Department shall make installation properties available to other DoD components and Federal agencies in accordance with the procedures set out at 32 CFR part 175. The Military Department will keep the LRA informed of other Federal interest in the property during this process. Upon completion of this process the Military Department will notify HUD and either the LRA, or the Chief Executive Officer of the State, as appropriate, and publish a list of surplus property on the installation that will be available for reuse in the
Federal Register
and a newspaper of general circulation in the communities in the vicinity of the installation.
(c)
Responsibilities of the LRA.
The LRA should begin to conduct outreach efforts with respect to the installation as soon as is practicable after the date of approval of closure/realignment of the installation. The local reuse planning process must begin no later than the date of the Military Department's
Federal Register
publication of available property described at § 586.20(b). For those installations that began the process described in this part prior to August 17, 1995, HUD will, on a case by case basis, determine whether the statutory requirements have been fulfilled and whether any additional requirements listed in this part should be required. Upon the
Federal Register
publication described in § 586.20(b), the LRA shall:
(1) Publish, within 30 days, in a newspaper of general circulation in the communities in the vicinity of the installation, the time period during which the LRA will receive notices of interest from State and local governments, representatives of the homeless, and other interested parties. This publication shall include the name, address, telephone number and the point of contact for the LRA who can provide information on the prescribed form and contents of the notices of interest. The LRA shall notify DoD of the deadline specified for receipt of notices of interest. LRAs are strongly encouraged to make this publication as soon as possible within the permissible 30 day period in order to expedite the closure process.
(i) In addition, the LRA has the option to conduct an informal solicitation of notices of interest from public and non-profit entities interested in obtaining property via a public benefit transfer other than a homeless assistance conveyance under either 40 U.S.C. 471
et seq.,
or 49 U.S.C. 47151-47153. As part of such a solicitation, the LRA may wish to request that interested entities submit a description of the proposed use to the LRA and the sponsoring Federal agency.
(ii) For all installations selected for closure or realignment prior to 1995 that elected to proceed under Public Law 103-421, the LRA shall accept notices of interest for not less than 30 days.
(iii) For installations selected for closure or realignment in 1995 or thereafter, notices of interest shall be accepted for a minimum of 90 days and not more than 180 days after the LRA's publication under § 586.20(c)(1).
(2) Prescribe the form and contents of notices of interest.
(i) The LRA may not release to the public any information regarding the capacity of the representative of the homeless to carry out its program, a description of the organization, or its financial plan for implementing the program, without the consent of the representative of the homeless concerned, unless such release is authorized under Federal law and under the law of the State and communities in which the installation concerned is located. The identity of the representative of the homeless may be disclosed.
(ii) The notices of interest from representatives of the homeless must include:
(A) A description of the homeless assistance program proposed, including the purposes to which the property or facility will be put, which may include uses such as supportive services, job and skills training, employment programs, shelters, transitional housing or housing with no established limitation on the amount of time of residence, food and clothing banks, treatment facilities, or any other activity which clearly meets an identified need of the homeless and fills a gap in the continuum of care;
(B) A description of the need for the program;
(C) A description of the extent to which the program is or will be coordinated with other homeless assistance programs in the communities in the vicinity of the installation;
(D) Information about the physical requirements necessary to carry out the program including a description of the buildings and property at the installation that are necessary to carry out the program;
(E) A description of the financial plan, the organization, and the organizational capacity of the representative of the homeless to carry out the program; and
(F) An assessment of the time required to start carrying out the program.
(iii) The notices of interest from entities other than representatives of the homeless should specify the name of the entity and specific interest in property or facilities along with a description of the planned use.
(3) In addition to the notice required under § 586.20(c)(1), undertake outreach efforts to representatives of the homeless by contacting local government officials and other persons or entities that may be interested in assisting the homeless within the vicinity of the installation.
(i) The LRA may invite persons and organizations identified on the HUD list of representatives of the homeless and any other representatives of the homeless with which the LRA is familiar, operating in the vicinity of the installation, to the workshop described in § 586.20(c)(3)(ii).
(ii) The LRA, in coordination with the Military Department and HUD, shall conduct at least one workshop where representatives of the homeless have an opportunity to:
(A) Learn about the closure/realignment and disposal process;
(B) Tour the buildings and properties available either on or off the installation;
(C) Learn about the LRA's process and schedule for receiving notices of interest as guided by § 586.20(c)(2); and
(D) Learn about any known land use constraints affecting the available property and buildings.
(iii) The LRA should meet with representatives of the homeless that express interest in discussing possible uses for these properties to alleviate gaps in the continuum of care.
(4) Consider various properties in response to the notices of interest. The LRA may consider property that is located off the installation.
(5) Develop an application, including the redevelopment plan and homeless assistance submission, explaining how the LRA proposes to address the needs of the homeless. This application shall consider the notices of interest received from State and local governments, representatives of the homeless, and other interested parties. This shall
include, but not be limited to, entities eligible for public benefit transfers under either 40 U.S.C. 471
et seq.,
or 49 U.S.C. 47151-47153; representatives of the homeless; commercial, industrial, and residential development interests; and other interests. From the deadline date for receipt of notices of interest described at § 586.20(c)(1), the LRA shall have 270 days to complete and submit the LRA application to the appropriate Military Department and HUD. The application requirements are described at § 586.30.
(6) Make the draft application available to the public for review and comment periodically during the process of developing the application. The LRA must conduct at least one public hearing on the application prior to its submission to HUD and the appropriate Military Department. A summary of the public comments received during the process of developing the application shall be included in the application when it is submitted.
(d)
Public benefit transfer screening.
The LRA should, while conducting its outreach efforts, work with the Federal agencies that sponsor public benefit transfers under either 40 U.S.C. 471
et seq.
or 49 U.S.C. 47151-47153. Those agencies can provide a list of parties in the vicinity of the installation that might be interested in and eligible for public benefit transfers. The LRA should make a reasonable effort to inform such parties of the availability of the property and incorporate their interests within the planning process. Actual recipients of property are to be determined by the sponsoring Federal agency. The Military Departments shall notify sponsoring Federal agencies about property that is available based on the community redevelopment plan and keep the LRA apprised of any expressions of interest. Such expressions of interest are not required to be incorporated into the redevelopment plan, but must be considered.
§ 586.25
HUD's negotiations and consultations with the LRA.
HUD may negotiate and consult with the LRA before and during the course of preparation of the LRA's application and during HUD's review thereof with a view toward avoiding any preliminary determination that the application does not meet any requirement of this part. LRAs are encouraged to contact HUD for a list of persons and organizations that are representatives of the homeless operating in the vicinity of the installation.
§ 586.30
LRA application.
(a)
Redevelopment plan.
A copy of the redevelopment plan shall be part of the application.
(b)
Homeless assistance submission.
This component of the application shall include the following:
(1) Information about homelessness in the communities in the vicinity of the installation.
(i) A list of all the political jurisdictions which comprise the LRA.
(ii) A description of the unmet need in the continuum of care system within each political jurisdiction, which should include information about any gaps that exist in the continuum of care for particular homeless subpopulations. The source for this information shall depend upon the size and nature of the political jurisdictions(s) that comprise the LRA. LRAs representing:
(A) Political jurisdictions that are required to submit a Consolidated Plan shall include a copy of their Homeless and Special Needs Population Table (table 1), Priority Homeless Needs Assessment Table (table 2), and narrative description thereof from that Consolidated Plan, including the inventory of facilities and services that assist the homeless in the jurisdiction.
(B) Political jurisdictions that are part of an urban county that is required to submit a Consolidated Plan shall include a copy of their Homeless and Special Needs Population Table (table 1), Priority Homeless Needs Assessment Table (table 2), and narrative description thereof from that Consolidated Plan, including the inventory of facilities and services that assist the homeless in the jurisdiction. In addition, the LRA shall explain what portion of the homeless population and subpopulations described in the Consolidated Plan are attributable to the political jurisdiction it represents.
(C) A political jurisdiction not described by § 586.30(b)(1)(ii)(A) or
§ 586.30(b)(1)(ii)(B) shall submit a narrative description of what it perceives to be the homeless population within the jurisdiction and a brief inventory of the facilities and services that assist homeless persons and families within the jurisdiction. LRAs that represent these jurisdictions are not required to conduct surveys of the homeless population.
(2) Notices of interest proposing assistance to homeless persons and/or families.
(i) A description of the proposed activities to be carried out on or off the installation and a discussion of how these activities meet a portion or all of the needs of the homeless by addressing the gaps in the continuum of care. The activities need not be limited to expressions of interest in property, but may also include discussions of how economic redevelopment may benefit the homeless;
(ii) A copy of each notice of interest from representatives of the homeless for use of buildings and property and a description of the manner in which the LRA's application addresses the need expressed in each notice of interest. If the LRA determines that a particular notice of interest should not be awarded property, an explanation of why the LRA determined not to support that notice of interest, the reasons for which may include the impact of the program contained in the notice of interest on the community as described in § 586.30(b)(2)(iii); and
(iii) A description of the impact that the implemented redevelopment plan will have on the community. This shall include information on how the LRA's redevelopment plan might impact the character of existing neighborhoods adjacent to the properties proposed to be used to assist the homeless and should discuss alternative plans. Impact on schools, social services, transportation, infrastructure, and concentration of minorities and/or low income persons shall also be discussed.
(3) Legally binding agreements for buildings, property, funding, and/or services.
(i) A copy of the legally binding agreements that the LRA proposes to enter into with the representative(s) of the homeless selected by the LRA to implement homeless programs that fill gaps in the existing continuum of care. The legally binding agreements shall provide for a process for negotiating alternative arrangements in the event that an environmental analysis conducted under § 586.45(b) indicates that any property identified for transfer in the agreement is not suitable for the intended purpose. Where the balance determined in accordance with § 586.30(b)(4) provides for the use of installation property as a homeless assistance facility, legally binding agreements must provide for the reversion or transfer, either to the LRA or to another entity or entities, of the buildings and property in the event they cease to be used for the homeless. In cases where the balance proposed by the LRA does not include the use of buildings or property on the installation, the legally binding agreements need not be tied to the use of specific real property and need not include a reverter clause. Legally binding agreements shall be accompanied by a legal opinion of the chief legal advisor of the LRA or political jurisdiction or jurisdictions which will be executing the legally binding agreements that the legally binding agreements, when executed, will constitute legal, valid, binding, and enforceable obligations on the parties thereto;
(ii) A description of how buildings, property, funding, and/or services either on or off the installation will be used to fill some of the gaps in the current continuum of care system and an explanation of the suitability of the buildings and property for that use; and
(iii) Information on the availability of general services such as transportation, police, and fire protection, and a discussion of infrastructure such as water, sewer, and electricity in the vicinity of the proposed homeless activity at the installation.
(4) An assessment of the balance with economic and other development needs.
(i) An assessment of the manner in which the application balances the expressed needs of the homeless and the needs of the communities comprising the LRA for economic redevelopment and other development; and
(ii) An explanation of how the LRA's application is consistent with the appropriate Consolidated Plan(s) or any other existing housing, social service, community, economic, or other development plans adopted by the jurisdictions in the vicinity of the installation.
(5) A description of the outreach undertaken by the LRA. The LRA shall explain how the outreach requirements described at § 586.20(c)(1) and § 586.20(c)(3) have been fulfilled. This explanation shall include a list of the representatives of the homeless the LRA contacted during the outreach process.
(c)
Public comments.
The LRA application shall include the materials described at § 586.20(c)(6). These materials shall be prefaced with an overview of the citizen participation process observed in preparing the application.
§ 586.35
HUD's review of the application.
(a)
Timing.
HUD shall complete a review of each application no later than 60 days after its receipt of a completed application.
(b)
Standards of review.
The purpose of the review is to determine whether the application is complete and, with respect to the expressed interest and requests of representatives of the homeless, whether the application:
(1)
Need.
Takes into consideration the size and nature of the homeless population in the communities in the vicinity of the installation, the availability of existing services in such communities to meet the needs of the homeless in such communities, and the suitability of the buildings and property covered by the application for use and needs of the homeless in such communities. HUD will take into consideration the size and nature of the installation in reviewing the needs of the homeless population in the communities in the vicinity of the installation.
(2)
Impact of notices of interest.
Takes into consideration any economic impact of the homeless assistance under the plan on the communities in the vicinity of the installation, including:
(i) Whether the plan is feasible in light of demands that would be placed on available social services, police and fire protection, and infrastructure in the community; and,
(ii) Whether the selected notices of interest are consistent with the Consolidated Plan(s) or any other existing housing, social service, community, economic, or other development plans adopted by the political jurisdictions in the vicinity of the installation.
(3)
Legally binding agreements.
Specifies the manner in which the buildings, property, funding, and/or services on or off the installation will be made available for homeless assistance purposes. HUD will review each legally binding agreement to verify that:
(i) They include all the documents legally required to complete the transactions necessary to realize the homeless use(s) described in the application;
(ii) They include all appropriate terms and conditions;
(iii) They address the full range of contingencies including those described at § 586.30(b)(3)(i);
(iv) They stipulate that the buildings, property, funding, and/or services will be made available to the representatives of the homeless in a timely fashion; and
(v) They are accompanied by a legal opinion of the chief legal advisor of the LRA or political jurisdiction or jurisdictions which will be executing the legally binding agreements that the legally binding agreements will, when executed, constitute legal, valid, binding, and enforceable obligations on the parties thereto.
(4)
Balance.
Balances in an appropriate manner a portion or all of the needs of the communities in the vicinity of the installation for economic redevelopment and other development with the needs of the homeless in such communities.
(5)
Outreach.
Was developed in consultation with representatives of the homeless and the homeless assistance planning boards, if any, in the communities in the vicinity of the installation and whether the outreach requirements described at § 586.20(c)(1) and § 586.20(c)(3) have been fulfilled by the LRA.
(c)
Notice of determination.
(1) HUD shall, no later than the 60th day after its receipt of the application, unless such deadline is extended pursuant to
§ 586.15(a), send written notification both to DoD and the LRA of its preliminary determination that the application meets or fails to meet the requirements of § 586.35(b). If the application fails to meet the requirements, HUD will send the LRA:
(i) A summary of the deficiencies in the application;
(ii) An explanation of the determination; and
(iii) A statement of how the LRA must address the determinations.
(2) In the event that no application is submitted and no extension is requested as of the deadline specified in § 586.20(c)(5), and the State does not accept within 30 days a DoD written request to become recognized as the LRA, the absence of such application will trigger an adverse determination by HUD effective on the date of the lapsed deadline. Under these conditions, HUD will follow the process described at § 586.40.
(d)
Opportunity to cure.
(1) The LRA shall have 90 days from its receipt of the notice of preliminary determination under § 586.35(c)(1) within which to submit to HUD and DoD a revised application which addresses the determinations listed in the notice. Failure to submit a revised application shall result in a final determination, effective 90 days from the LRA's receipt of the preliminary determination, that the redevelopment plan fails to meet the requirements of § 586.35(b).
(2) HUD shall, within 30 days of its receipt of the LRA's resubmission, send written notification of its final determination of whether the application meets the requirements of § 586.35(b) to both DOD and the LRA.
§ 586.40
Adverse determinations.
(a)
Review and consultation.
If the resubmission fails to meet the requirements of § 586.35(b), or if no resubmission is received, HUD will review the original application, including the notices of interest submitted by representatives of the homeless. In addition, in such instances or when no original application has been submitted, HUD:
(1) Shall consult with the representatives of the homeless, if any, for purposes of evaluating the continuing interest of such representatives in the use of buildings or property at the installation to assist the homeless;
(2) May consult with the applicable Military Department regarding the suitability of the buildings and property at the installation for use to assist the homeless; and
(3) May consult with representatives of the homeless and other parties as necessary.
(b)
Notice of decision.
(1) Within 90 days of receipt of an LRA's revised application which HUD determines does not meet the requirements of § 586.35(b), HUD shall, based upon its reviews and consultations under § 586.40(a):
(i) Notify DoD and the LRA of the buildings and property at the installation that HUD determines are suitable for use to assist the homeless; and
(ii) Notify DoD and the LRA of the extent to which the revised redevelopment plan meets the criteria set forth in § 586.35(b).
(2) In the event that an LRA does not submit a revised redevelopment plan under § 586.35(d), HUD shall, based upon its reviews and consultations under § 586.40(a), notify DoD and the LRA of the buildings and property at the installation that HUD determines are suitable for use to assist the homeless, either
(i) Within 190 days after HUD sends its notice of preliminary adverse determination under § 586.35(c)(1), if an LRA has not submitted a revised redevelopment plan; or
(ii) Within 390 days after the Military Department's
Federal Register
publication of available property under § 586.20(b), if no redevelopment plan has been received and no extension has been approved.
§ 586.45
Disposal of buildings and property.
(a)
Public benefit transfer screening.
Not later than the LRA's submission of its redevelopment plan to DoD and HUD, the Military Department will conduct an official public benefit transfer screening in accordance with the Federal Property Management Regulations (41 CFR part 101-47.303-2) based upon the uses identified in the
redevelopment plan. Federal sponsoring agencies shall notify eligible applicants that any request for property must be consistent with the uses identified in the redevelopment plan. At the request of the LRA, the Military Department may conduct the official State and local public benefit screening at any time after the publication of available property described at § 586.20(b).
(b)
Environmental analysis.
Prior to disposal of any real property, the Military Department shall, consistent with NEPA and section 2905 of the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990, as amended (10 U.S.C. 2687
note
), complete an environmental impact analysis of all reasonable disposal alternatives. The Military Department shall consult with the LRA throughout the environmental impact analysis process to ensure both that the LRA is provided the most current environmental information available concerning the installation, and that the Military Department receives the most current information available concerning the LRA's redevelopment plans for the installation.
(c)
Disposal.
Upon receipt of a notice of approval of an application from HUD under § 586.35(c)(1) or § 586.35(d)(2), DoD shall dispose of buildings and property in accordance with the record of decision or other decision document prepared under § 586.45(b). Disposal of buildings and property to be used as homeless assistance facilities shall be to either the LRA or directly to the representative(s) of the homeless and shall be without consideration. Upon receipt of a notice from HUD under § 586.40(b), DoD will dispose of the buildings and property at the installation in consultation with HUD and the LRA.
(d)
LRA's responsibility.
The LRA shall be responsible for the implementation of and compliance with legally binding agreements under the application.
(e)
Reversions to the LRA.
If a building or property reverts to the LRA under a legally binding agreement under the application, the LRA shall take appropriate actions to secure, to the maximum extent practicable, the utilization of the building or property by other homeless representatives to assist the homeless. An LRA may not be required to utilize the building or property to assist the homeless.
Pt. 594

# PART 594—JOHN HEINZ NEIGHBORHOOD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
594.1
Applicability and purpose.
594.3
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Eligibility
594.5
Eligible applicants.
594.7
Other threshold requirements.
594.10
Eligible activities.

# Subpart C—Funding Allocation and Criteria
594.15
Allocation amounts.
594.17
General criteria for competitive selection.

# Subpart D—Award and Use of Grant Amounts
594.20
Submission procedures.
594.23
Approval and certification procedures.
594.25
Project administration.
594.28
Environmental reviews.
594.30
Equal opportunity and other Federal requirements.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3535(d) and 5318a.

# Source:
60 FR 16359, Mar. 29, 1995, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 594.1
Applicability and purpose.
(a)
General.
This part establishes as a permanent program the John Heinz Neighborhood Development Program, as authorized by section 832 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992. Previously, the program had been administered by the Department as a demonstration program under section 123 of the Housing and Urban-Rural Recovery Act of 1983 (42 U.S.C. 5318 note).
(b)
Purpose.
The program is intended to assist communities to become more viable, by providing incentive funds to carry out neighborhood development
activities that benefit low- and moderate-income families. The program objectives are to increase the capacity of neighborhood organizations, promote long-term financial support for their neighborhood projects, and encourage greater participation of neighborhood organizations with private and public institutions.
§ 594.3
Definitions.
Empowerment zone
means an area designated by HUD as an Empowerment Zone under 26 U.S.C. 1391-1393.
Enterprise community
means an area designated by HUD as an Enterprise Community under 26 U.S.C. 1391-1393.
Grantee
means an eligible neighborhood organization that executes a grant agreement with HUD under this part.
Low- and moderate-income persons
means families and individuals whose incomes do not exceed 80 percent of the median income for the area, as determined by the Secretary of HUD in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 5302(a)(20).
Neighborhood development funding organization
means:
(1) A depository institution, the accounts of which are insured pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1811
et seq.,
or the Federal Credit Union Act, 12 U.S.C. 1751
et seq.,
and any subsidiary (as such term is defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(w)) thereof;
(2) A depository institution holding company and any subsidiary (as such term is defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(w)) thereof; or
(3) A company at least 75 percent of the common stock of which is owned by one or more insured depository institutions or depository institution holding companies.
Neighborhood development organization
means the same as the term is defined in § 594.5.
Rural neighborhoods.
In small cities with under 10,000 in population and in rural areas, a neighborhood area can be the same unit as the unit of general local government.
Unit of general local government
means a city, town, township, county, parish, village, or other general purpose political subdivision of a State; an urban county; the Federated States of Micronesia; the Marshall Islands; or a general purpose political subdivision thereof.
[60 FR 16359, Mar. 29, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 5211, Feb. 9, 1996]

# Subpart B—Eligibility
§ 594.5
Eligible applicants.
(a)
General requirements.
To be eligible under this program, a neighborhood development organization must be located within the neighborhood for which assistance is to be provided. It cannot be a city-wide consortium, or, in general, an organization serving a large area of the city. The applicant must meet all of the following requirements:
(1) The organization must be incorporated as a private, voluntary, nonprofit corporation under the laws of the State in which it operates;
(2) The organization must be responsible through a governing body to the residents of the neighborhood it serves, and not less than 51 percent of the members of the governing body must be residents of the neighborhood;
(3) The organization must have conducted business for at least one year;
(4) The organization must operate within an area that meets at least one of the following criteria:
(i) The area meets the requirements for Federal assistance under section 119 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. 5318;
(ii) The area is designated as an Enterprise Community or Empowerment Zone under Federal law as enacted;
(iii) The area is designated as an enterprise zone under State law and is recognized by the Secretary as a State enterprise zone for purposes of this part; or
(iv) The area is a qualified distressed community within the meaning of section 233(b)(1) of the Bank Enterprise Act of 1991, 12 U.S.C. 1834a(b)(1); and
(5) The organization must have conducted one or more eligible neighborhood development activities that primarily benefit low- and moderate-income persons.
(b)
Special eligibility.
Any facility that provides small entrepreneurial business with affordable shared support services and business development
services and that meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section may also be eligible to participate in this program.
§ 594.7
Other threshold requirements.
In addition, an applicant must meet the following threshold requirements:
(a) Specify a management business plan for accomplishing one or more of the eligible activities specified in § 594.10;
(b) Specify a strategy for achieving greater long-term private sector support, especially in cooperation with a neighborhood development funding organization; and
(c) Specify a strategy for increasing the capacity of the applicant.
§ 594.10
Eligible activities.
Eligible activities include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a) Developing economic development activities that include:
(1) Creating permanent jobs in the neighborhood; or
(2) Establishing or expanding businesses within the neighborhood;
(b) Developing new housing, rehabilitating existing housing, or managing housing stock within the neighborhood;
(c) Developing delivery mechanisms for essential services that have lasting benefits to the neighborhood; and
(d) Planning, promoting, or financing voluntary neighborhood improvement efforts.

# Subpart C—Funding Allocation and Criteria
§ 594.15
Allocation amounts.
(a)
Amounts and match requirement.
HUD will make grants, in the form of matching funds, to eligible neighborhood development organizations. HUD reserves the right to make grants for less than the maximum amount established by statute, and to limit the number of times a previous grantee can receive funding. A Federal matching ratio will be established for each grantee in accordance with the statutory requirement that the highest ratios be established for neighborhoods having the greatest degree of economic distress or the smallest number of households.
(b)
Administrative costs.
The Secretary may use no more than 5 percent of the funds appropriated for the program for administrative or other expenses in connection with the program.
§ 594.17
General criteria for competitive selection.
(a)
Criteria.
HUD will use the following general criteria for selecting and ranking applications for all competitions for John Heinz Neighborhood Development Program funds. The relative values for the criteria will be indicated in each NOFA:
(1) The degree of economic distress and the benefit to low- and moderate-income residents of the neighborhood;
(2) The past performance in carrying out eligible activities, and staff capability;
(3) The quality of the Management/Business Plan;
(4) The evidence of coordination and resident participation; and
(5) The quality of the strategy to increase the capacity of the organization and the strategy developed for meeting long-term financial needs.
(b)
Geographic diversity.
The Department also reserves the right to fund applicants in other than rank order, for the purpose of achieving geographic balance.

# Subpart D—Award and Use of Grant Amounts
§ 594.20
Submission procedures.
(a)
Use of NOFAs.
The Department will publish a Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA) in the
Federal Register
for each funding competition under this program, indicating the objective of the competition; the amount of funding available; the application procedures, including the eligible applicants and activities to be funded; and any special conditions applicable to the competition, including the requirements for the match. The NOFA also will describe the maximum points to be awarded under each evaluation criterion, for the purpose of ranking applications, and any special factors to be considered in assigning the points to each criterion.
(b) Applications shall be submitted in accordance with the time, place, and content described in the NOFA.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2535-0084)
§ 594.23
Approval and certification procedures.
(a)
Approval of application.
HUD's acceptance of an application for review does not imply a commitment to provide funding. HUD will provide notification of whether a project will be funded in accordance with the criteria and procedures set out in the applicable NOFA.
(b)
Certifications.
In the absence of independent evidence that tends to challenge in a substantial manner the certifications made by the applicant pursuant to § 594.30, the required certifications will be accepted by HUD.
However, if independent evidence is available that tends to challenge in a substantial manner an applicant's certification, HUD may require further information or assurances to be submitted in order to determine whether the applicant's certification is satisfactory.
§ 594.25
Project administration.
Project administration will be governed by the terms of the grant agreement.
§ 594.28
Environmental reviews.
(a) For all proposed actions or activities that are not considered categorically excluded under 24 CFR 50.20, HUD will perform the appropriate environmental reviews under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA).
(b) Whether the action or activity is categorically excluded from NEPA review or not, HUD will comply also with other applicable requirements of environmental statutes, Executive Orders, and HUD standards listed in 24 CFR 50.4. The environmental reviews will be performed before award of a grant. Grantees shall adhere to all assurances applicable to environmental concerns as contained in the RFGA and grant agreements.
§ 594.30
Equal opportunity and other Federal requirements.
Each participating neighborhood development organization must certify that it will carry out activities assisted under the program in compliance with the nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 5 and:
(a) The requirements at 24 CFR part 200, subpart M;
(b) The prohibitions against discrimination and related requirements of section 109 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5309);
(c) The requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12181-12189) and implementing regulations at 28 CFR part 36, as applicable;
(d) The Consolidated Plan of the appropriate unit of general local government; and
(e) Other Federal requirements as specified in the applicable NOFA and application kit.
[60 FR 16359, Mar. 29, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 5211, Feb. 9, 1996]
Pt. 599

# PART 599—RENEWAL COMMUNITIES

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
599.1
Applicability and scope.
599.3
Definitions.
599.5
Data used for eligibility determinations.

# Subpart B—Eligibility Requirements for Nomination of Renewal Communities
599.101
Eligibility to submit nominations.
599.103
Geographic and population requirements for a nominated area.
599.105
Economic condition requirements for a nominated area.
599.107
Required State and local commitments.

# Subpart C—Procedures for Nomination of Renewal Communities
599.201
Initiation of application process.
599.203
Basic application submission requirements.

# Subpart D—Evaluation of Applications Nominating Renewal Communities
599.301
Initial determination of threshold requirements.
599.303
Rating of applications.

# Subpart E—Selection of Nominated Areas To Be Renewal Communities
599.401
Ranking of applications.
599.403
Number of Renewal Communities to be designated.
599.405
Selection of Renewal Communities.
599.407
Notification of Renewal Community designations.

# Subpart F—Post-Designation Requirements
599.501
Period for which Renewal Community designation is in effect.
599.503
Effect of Renewal Community designation on an EZ/EC.
599.505
Coordinating responsible authority (CoRA).
599.507
Tax incentives utilization plan.
599.509
Modification of commitments and plans.
599.511
Reports and other information.
599.513
Revocation of designation.

# Authority:
26 U.S.C. 1400E; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
66 FR 35855, July 9, 2001, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 599.1
Applicability and scope.
(a) This part establishes requirements and procedures applicable to the designation of Renewal Communities (RCs) through December 31, 2001, authorized under Subchapter X of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1400E,
et seq.
). HUD may choose to use these requirements and procedures in whole or in part for any future Renewal Community designations that may be authorized.
(b) This part contains provisions relating to area requirements, the nomination process for Renewal Communities, and the evaluation and designation of nominated areas by HUD.
§ 599.3
Definitions.
In addition to the definitions of “HUD” and “Secretary” found in 24 CFR 5.100, the following definitions apply to this part:
Census tract
means a census tract, as the term is used by the Bureau of the Census, or, if census tracts are not defined for the area, a block numbering area.
Designation
means the process by which the Secretary designates areas as Renewal Communities eligible for tax incentives and credits established by Subchapter X of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (26 U.S.C. 1400E,
et seq.
) and for any additional assistance that may be made available.
Empowerment Zone
(EZ) means an area so designated by the Secretary in accordance with 24 CFR part 597 or 24 CFR part 598.
Enterprise Community
(EC) means an area so designated by the Secretary in accordance with 24 CFR part 597.
Local government
means any county, city, town, township, parish, village, or other general purpose political subdivision of a State, and any combination of these political subdivisions that is recognized by the Secretary.
Metropolitan Area
(MA) means an area as defined to be a Metropolitan Statistical Area or Primary Metropolitan Statistical Area by the Office of Management and Budget on June 30, 1999.
Nominated area
means an area with a population of not more than 200,000 that is nominated by one or more local governments and the State or States in which it is located, or the governing body of the Indian reservation in which it is located, for designation in accordance with this part.
Renewal Community
(RC) means an area so designated by HUD in accordance with this part.
Rural area
means a nominated area:
(1) Which is within a local government jurisdiction or jurisdictions with a population of less than 50,000; or
(2) Which is outside of an MA; or
(3) Which is determined by HUD, after consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, to be a rural area. An area may qualify as a rural area under this paragraph (3) of this definition if:
(i) It is a nominated area that crosses jurisdictional boundaries;
(ii) The total population of the nominated area does not exceed 200,000;
(iii) The nominated area as a whole would not satisfy the requirements of either paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition;
(iv) Each portion of the nominated area that is located within a separate jurisdiction meets the requirements of either paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition; and
(v) The area is specifically nominated as a rural area; or
(4) Which does not meet the requirements of either paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of this definition but which is determined by HUD on a case-by-case basis, after consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, to be a rural area based on information submitted to demonstrate that the nominated area should be considered as a rural area.
State
means any State of the United States.
Urban area
means a nominated area that is not a rural area.
§ 599.5
Data used for eligibility determinations.
(a)
Source of data.
The data to be used in determining the population, poverty rate, unemployment rate and household income distribution information of an area is from the 1990 Decennial Census.
(b)
Geographic boundaries.
The boundary of an area that is nominated for designation as an Renewal Community must coincide with the boundaries of census tracts, as defined in § 599.3 except in the case of Indian reservation areas where the use of census tracts would tend to include areas outside the jurisdiction of the reservation governing body and such body is not making the nomination in concert with another jurisdiction.

# Subpart B—Eligibility Requirements for Nomination of Renewal Communities
§ 599.101
Eligibility to submit nominations.
(a)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a nomination for the designation of an area as a Renewal Community must be submitted by one or more local governments and the State or States in which the nominated area is located.
(b)
Nominated areas on Indian reservations.
In the case of a nominated area on an Indian reservation, the reservation governing body (as determined by the Secretary of the Interior) must submit the nomination and shall be treated as being both the State and local governments with respect to the area for purposes of this part.
(c)
Responsible official.
The submission of an application, and any other action required of a nominating government under this part, such as the submission of a certification, must be performed by an official or employee authorized to act on behalf of the government for that purpose.
§ 599.103
Geographic and population requirements for a nominated area.
(a)
Geographic requirements.
A nominated area must meet the following geographic requirements to be eligible for designation as a Renewal Community:
(1) The area must be within the jurisdiction of one or more local governments.
(2) The boundary of the area must be continuous.
(i) The boundary line of the nominated area may be interrupted by jurisdictional boundaries, such as State or county lines, or natural boundaries, such as rivers, as long as the resulting area is entirely within the boundary line except for the interruptions.
(ii) The nominated area may enclose an area or areas that are excluded from the nominated area, as long as each enclosed area to be excluded is within a continuous boundary line.
(3) The nominated area may be any size, as long as it meets all of the requirements of this part.
(b)
Population requirements
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a nominated area must have a population of not more than 200,000 and at least:
(i) 4,000 if any portion of the area (other than a nominated rural area) is located within an MA which has a population of 50,000 or greater; or
(ii) 1,000 in any other case.
(2)
Nominated areas on Indian reservations.
A nominated area that is entirely within an Indian reservation (as determined by the Secretary of the Interior) is not subject to the population requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
§ 599.105
Economic condition requirements for a nominated area.
(a)
Certification for economic requirements.
An official or officials authorized to do so by the nominating State and local governments must certify in writing for HUD's acceptance that the nominated area is an area of pervasive poverty, unemployment, and general distress, and that the nominated area meets the requirements of paragraphs (b), (c) and, in the case of urban areas, paragraph (d) of this section. HUD's acceptance of the certification is subject to a review of data supporting the certification, as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.
(b)
Unemployment requirement.
A nominated area meets the unemployment requirement if the unemployment rate in the nominated area taken as a whole was at least one and one-half times (150% of) the national unemployment rate for the period to which such data relate.
(c)
Poverty requirement.
A nominated area meets the poverty requirement if the poverty rate for each population census tract within the nominated area is at least 20 percent. In the case of a nominated area that is within an Indian reservation, and cannot equivalently be described with census tracts, the poverty rate of the nominated area taken as a whole is considered for purposes of making this determination.
(d)
Income requirement for urban areas.
In the case of a nominated urban area, at least 70 percent of the households living in the nominated area must have incomes below 80 percent of the median income of households within the jurisdiction of the local government or governments in which the nominated area is located. The number of households below 80 percent of the median income in each census tract shall be the number of households with incomes below 80 percent of the Household Adjusted Median Family Income (HAMFI) in each census tract as determined by HUD.
(e)
HUD review of supporting data
—(1)
Unemployment, poverty and income.
HUD will review 1990 census data to determine whether to accept a certification that a nominated area meets the requirements of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this section.
(2)
Pervasive poverty, unemployment and general distress
—(i)
Pervasive poverty.
Pervasive poverty is demonstrated by evidence that:
(A) Poverty, as indicated by the number of persons listed as being in poverty in the 1990 Decennial Census, is widespread throughout the nominated area; or
(B) Poverty, as described in paragraph (e)(2)(i)(A) of this section, has become entrenched or intractable over time (through comparison of 1980 and 1990 census data or other relevant evidence).
(ii)
Unemployment.
Unemployment is demonstrated by:
(A) The most recent data available indicating that the annual rate of unemployment for the nominated area is not less than the national annual average rate of unemployment; or
(B) Evidence of especially severe economic conditions, such as military base or plant closings or other conditions that have brought about significant job dislocation within the nominated area.
(iii)
General distress.
General distress is evidenced by describing adverse conditions within the nominated urban area other than those of pervasive poverty and unemployment. Below average or decline in per capita income, earnings per worker, number of persons on welfare, per capita property tax base, average years of school completed, substantial population decline, and a high or rising incidence of crime, narcotics use, homelessness, high incidence of AIDS, abandoned housing, deteriorated infrastructure, school dropouts, teen pregnancy, incidence of domestic violence, incidence of certain health conditions and illiteracy are examples of appropriate indicators of general distress.
§ 599.107
Required State and local commitments.
(a)
Commitment to a course of action
—(1)
Agreement of State and local governments.
The nominating State and local governments must agree in writing that, for any period during which the area is a Renewal Community, the governments will follow a specified course
of action which meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section. If each nominating State and local government is a signatory to a course of action under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a separate written agreement is not necessary to meet the requirements of this paragraph.
(2)
Course of action requirements
—(i)
In general.
A course of action is a written document, signed by the nominated area's State and/or local governments and community-based organizations which commits each signatory to undertake and achieve measurable goals and actions within the nominated area upon its designation as a Renewal Community.
(ii)
Community-based organizations.
For purposes of the course of action, “community-based organizations” includes for-profit and non-profit private entities, businesses and business organizations, neighborhood organizations, and community groups. Community-based organizations are not required to be located in the nominated area as long as they commit to achieving the goals of the course of action in the Renewal Community.
(iii)
Timetable.
The course of action must include a timetable that identifies the significant steps and target dates for implementing the goals and actions.
(iv)
Performance measures.
The course of action must include a description of how the performance of the course of action will be measured and evaluated.
(v)
Required goals and actions.
The course of action must include at least four of the following:
(A) A reduction of tax rates or fees applying within the Renewal Community;
(B) An increase in the level of efficiency of local services within the Renewal Community, such as services for residents funded through the Federal Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program and related Federal programs including, for example, job support services, child care and after school care for children of working residents, employment training, transportation services and other services that help residents become economically self-sufficient;
(C) Crime reduction strategies, such as crime prevention, including the provision of crime prevention services by nongovernmental entities;
(D) Actions to reduce, remove, simplify, or streamline governmental requirements applying within the Renewal Community, such as:
(
1
)
Density bonus.
Permission to develop or redevelop real property at a higher density level than otherwise permitted under the zoning ordinance, e.g., increased height or increased number of residential or business units;
(
2
)
Incentive zoning.
Providing a density bonus or other real property-related incentive for the development, redevelopment, or preservation of a parcel in the designated area;
(
3
)
Comprehensive or one-stop permit.
Streamlining construction or other development permitting processes, rather than requiring multiple applications for multiple permits, e.g., for demolition, site preparation, and construction, the developer or redeveloper submits a single application that is circulated for the necessary reviews by the various planning, engineering, and other departments in the county or municipality;
(
4
)
Variance and exception policies.
Counties or municipalities may pass ordinancesthat permit variances to or exceptions from certain zoning or other land use limitations. Examples include a reduced building set-back requirement or a reduced requirement for the provision of parking. Thepolicy may be limited to a particular geographic area;
(
5
)
Voluntary environmental compliance program.
A shared or limited environmental liability program, with limited liability from certain legal or administrative action in exchange for undertaking an approved program of environmental investigation, hazard control, and on-going risk reduction activities. Typically, the liability limitation is for future environmental cleanup (and not against lawsuit for damages). Risk of cleanup may be shared by the developer or property owner and the government;
(E) Involvement in economic development activities by private entities, organizations, neighborhood organizations, and community groups, particularly those in the Renewal Community, including a commitment from such private entities to provide jobs and job training for, and technical, financial, or other assistance to, employers, employees, and residents from the Renewal Community;
(F) The gift or sale at below fair market value of surplus real property held by State or local governments, such as land, homes, and commercial or industrial structures in the Renewal Community to neighborhood organizations, community development corporations, or private companies.
(3)
Certification requirement for crime incidence.
If preference points are being sought for the nominated area because it qualifies for preference points in accordance with § 599.303(c)(1), the course of action must contain a certification by each nominating State and local government of the 1999 Local Crime Index rate per 100,000 inhabitants (LCI) determined for the nominated area. The offenses used in determining the LCI are the violent crimes of murder and nonnegligent manslaughter, forcible rape, robbery, and aggravated assault, and the property crimes of burglary, larceny-theft, and motor vehicle theft.
(b)
Economic growth promotion requirements
—(1)
Required certification.
The State and local governments in which a nominated area is located must certify in writing that they have repealed or reduced, will not enforce, or will reduce within the nominated area at least four of the following:
(i) Licensing requirements for occupations that do not ordinarily require a professional degree;
(ii) Zoning restrictions on home-based businesses which do not create a public nuisance;
(iii) Permit requirements for street vendors who do not create a public nuisance;
(iv) Zoning or other restrictions that impede the formation of schools or child care centers; and
(v) Franchises or other restrictions on competition for businesses providing public services, including taxicabs, jitneys, cable television, or trash hauling.
(2)
Exception.
The requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section do not apply to the extent that a regulation of businesses and occupations is necessary for and well-tailored to the protection of health and safety. The certifications required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be limited to exclude or include specific businesses and occupations.
(c)
Recognition of past efforts.
The course of action and economic growth requirements under paragraphs (a) and (b), respectively, of this section are not limited to future goals and actions. Past efforts within the previous eight years, either completed or on-going, of the nominating State or local governments to undertake any of the goals or actions listed in paragraph (a)(2)(v) or (b)(1) of this section qualify to meet these requirements. If past efforts are used, the nominating governments must identify which of the required goals and actions listed in paragraph (a)(2)(v) or (b)(1) of this section they address; the timetable for their continued implementation, if on-going; and the community-based organizations involved, if any.
[66 FR 35855, July 9, 2001, as amended at 66 FR 52675, Oct. 17, 2001]

# Subpart C—Procedures for Nomination of Renewal Communities
§ 599.201
Initiation of application process.
(a)
Federal Register notice.
To initiate the nomination process for Renewal Communities, HUD will publish a notice inviting applications for the designation of Renewal Communities in the
Federal Register.
(b)
Contents.
The notice inviting applications will include specific information as to due dates and submission requirements.
§ 599.203
Basic application submission requirements.
The basic application submission requirements for nominating an area as a Renewal Community are:
(a)
Identification of the nominated area.
An application must identify the census tracts that constitute the nominated area. The nominated area must meet all of the eligibility requirements of subpart B of this part.
(b)
State and local commitments.
An application must include the documents evidencing compliance with State and local commitments required by § 599.107.
(c)
Public notice certification.
An application must include a certification, signed by a responsible official or employee of each nominating State and local government, that the public was provided notice of, and an opportunity to participate in, the application development process. Notice and opportunity to participate may include procedures such as placing announcements in newspapers or other media, holding public meetings, and soliciting comments.

# Subpart D—Evaluation of Applications Nominating Renewal Communities
§ 599.301
Initial determination of threshold requirements.
(a)
Two threshold requirements.
Before rating and ranking an application, HUD will review it to determine if the application meets both of the following thresholds:
(1)
Eligibility of the nominated area.
This threshold is met if HUD determines that the nominated area as identified in the application meets all of the area eligibility requirements of subpart B of this part.
(2)
Adequacy of State and local commitments.
This threshold is met if HUD determines that the documents in the application evidencing compliance with the required State and local commitments meet all of the course of action and economic growth promotion requirements of § 599.107.
(b)
Failure to meet threshold requirements
—(1)
No rating or ranking.
An application that does not meet both of the threshold requirements by the application due date specified in the published notice inviting applications will not be rated or ranked for further Renewal Community consideration.
(2)
Opportunity to correct failure.
HUD will notify an applicant of the threshold deficiencies in its application. An applicant may submit additional information and take any other action required to correct the deficiencies and meet the threshold requirements until the due date for applications specified in the published notice inviting applications.
§ 599.303
Rating of applications.
(a)
In general.
Each application that qualifies by meeting the threshold requirements will receive a score based on its ranking, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, plus any preference points, as described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Ranking score.
Each nominated area meeting the minimum thresholds will be ranked from highest to lowest according to the area poverty rate, area unemployment rate, and for urban areas, the percentage of families below 80 percent of area median income. Urban nominated areas will be ranked separately from rural nominated areas. The percentile rank will be determined by dividing these rankings by the total number of nominated areas ranked and multiplying the result by 100. The average ranking will be determined by computing the simple average of the percentile ranks for each nominated area. To create a 100 point scale, the average rankings will be subtracted from 100.
(c)
Preference points
—(1)
Incidence of crime.
A nominated area may receive a maximum of 1, 2, or 4 crime incidence preference points as follows:
(i)
Number of points awarded.
A nominated area will receive 1 additional point if its 1999 Local Crime Index (LCI), as determined on the basis of data from each State and local law enforcement authority with jurisdiction in the nominated area, does not exceed by more than 25% the nation-wide 1999 Crime Index rate per 100,000 inhabitants (CI) prepared as part of the FBI's Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR) Program. A preference of 2 points will be added to the score of a nominated area with an LCI that does not exceed the CI by more than 10 percent. A nominated area that has an LCI that is less
than the CI will receive 4 preference points.
(ii)
Qualifying for preference points.
To qualify for preference points based on the incidence of crime, the nominating governments must determine and then certify to the LCI determined for the nominated area, in accordance with § 599.107(a)(3)
(2)
Preference points for certain census tracts.
A nominated area will receive one preference point if any of its census tracts is a census tract identified in GAO Report RCED-98-158R, dated May 12, 1998. (The GAO Report is available from U.S. General Accounting Office, P.O. Box 37050, Washington, DC 20013 or
http://www.gao.gov.
)

# Subpart E—Selection of Nominated Areas To Be Renewal Communities
§ 599.401
Ranking of applications.
(a)
Ranking order.
Rural and urban applications will be ranked according to their final scores as determined in accordance with § 599.303, with the highest scoring applications ranked first.
(b)
Separate ranking categories.
After initial ranking, both rural and urban applications will be separated into two ranking categories:
(1)
Category 1.
Applications for designation of nominated areas that are Enterprise Communities or Empowerment Zones will be placed into Category 1 in rank order.
(2)
Category 2.
Applications for designation of nominated areas that are not placed into or selected from Category 1 will be placed into Category 2 in rank order.
§ 599.403
Number of Renewal Communities to be designated.
(a)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the total number of Renewal Communities to be designated and the distribution of designations between urban and rural areas are as follows:
(1)
Total number.
The total number of nominated areas to be selected for designation as Renewal Communities is 40.
(2)
Rural areas.
HUD will select at least 12 rural areas for designation as Renewal Communities. If HUD does not receive at least 12 eligible rural area applications for Renewal Community designation, the number of rural area designations will be the number of eligible rural area applications received by HUD.
(3)
Urban areas.
The number of urban areas selected for designation as Renewal Communities will be the number remaining after subtracting the number of rural areas selected from 40.
(b)
Less than 40 eligible applications.
If HUD receives fewer than 40 eligible applications nominating areas, the total number of nominated areas to be selected for designation as Renewal Communities will be the total number of eligible applications.
§ 599.405
Selection of Renewal Communities.
(a)
Selection of Category 1 applications
—(1)
Six or less rural nominations.
If there are six or fewer Category 1 rural area nominations, HUD will select all of the nominated rural areas in Category 1 for designation as Renewal Communities. HUD will then select the highest ranking Category 1 urban area nominations, but will not exceed a total of 20 Category 1 designations.
(2)
More than six rural nominations.
If there are more than six Category 1 rural area nominations, HUD will select the six highest ranked Category 1 rural applications, and will then select, in rank order, the highest ranking Category 1 area nominations, whether urban or rural, until not more than a total of 20 Category 1 designations is made.
(b)
Selection of Category 2 applications.
After not more than 20 Category 1 designations are made in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, any remaining Category 1 applications will be placed back in rank order into Category 2, with selections for a combined Category 1 and Category 2 total of not more than 40 designations made as follows:
(1)
Less than six Category 1 rural applications.
If the number of rural area applications selected in Category 1 is less than six, HUD will select the highest ranking rural area applications in Category 2 until the total number of rural areas selected is 12. The remaining designations will be made from both rural
and urban areas in rank order. If there are fewer than 12 eligible rural applications overall, counting both Category 1 and Category 2, all of the eligible rural applications will be selected.
(2)
Six or more Category 1 rural applications.
If the number of rural area applications selected in Category 1 is six or more, HUD will select the six highest Category 2 rural applications. The remaining designations will be made from both rural and urban areas in rank order.
(c)
Effective date of designation.
The effective date of designation as a Renewal Community is the date a nominated area is selected in accordance with this section.
§ 599.407
Notification of Renewal Community designations.
(a)
Notification of applicant.
HUD will notify each applicant of the designation of its nominated area as a Renewal Community.
(b)
Federal Register publication.
In addition to any other form of notification, HUD will publish a notice of the designation of Renewal Communities in the
Federal Register.

# Subpart F—Post-Designation Requirements
§ 599.501
Period for which Renewal Community designation is in effect.
Any designation of an area as a Renewal Community will remain in effect during the period beginning on January 1, 2002, and ending on the earliest of:
(a) December 31, 2009;
(b) The termination date designated by the State and local governments in their nomination application, if any; or
(c) The date HUD revokes the designation.
§ 599.503
Effect of Renewal Community designation on an EZ/EC.
The designation of any area as an Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community shall cease to be in effect as of the date that the designation of any portion of such area as a Renewal Community takes effect.
§ 599.505
Coordinating responsible authority (CoRA).
Within 30 days of the Renewal Community designation, the State and local governments in which the area is located must submit to HUD information identifying the coordinating responsible authority (CoRA), which is the entity, organization or persons with the responsibility and authority to achieve the State and local government commitments made at the time of application as required by § 599.107 and to undertake the development and administration of policies, procedures and activities to implement and maximize the Federal, State and local benefits made available in the Renewal Community.
§ 599.507
Tax incentives utilization plan.
(a)
Preliminary plan.
Within six months of designation, the CoRA must prepare and submit to HUD a preliminary tax incentives utilization plan for achieving the State and local commitments made at the time of application as required by § 599.107 and implementing and maximizing the Federal, State and local benefits made available in the Renewal Community.
(b)
Final plan.
Within twelve months of designation, the CoRA must prepare and submit to HUD the final tax incentives utilization plan for achieving the State and local commitments made at the time of application as required by § 599.107 and implementing and maximizing the Federal, State and local benefits made available in the Renewal Community.
(c)
Community participation.
The CoRA must ensure that the preliminary and final tax incentives utilizations plans are developed with the participation of the residents and community organizations in the Renewal Community.
(d)
Coordination with Consolidated Plan and Indian Housing Plan.
The tax incentives utilization plan must include a certification that it is consistent with the Consolidated Plan prepared in accordance with 24 CFR part 91 or the Indian Housing Plan prepared in accordance with 24 CFR part 1000, as applicable.
(e)
HUD technical assistance.
HUD will provide technical assistance as authorized to assist the CoRA in preparing the required tax incentives utilization plans.
§ 599.509
Modification of commitments and plans.
The CoRA may submit requests to HUD to modify the State and local commitments made at the time of application as required by § 599.107 and the tax incentives utilization plans required by § 599.505. Requests must provide evidence to support the proposed modifications. HUD will review the proposed modification for consistency with regulatory and statutory requirements and approve, suggest additional or alternate modifications or deny the request within 30 days.
§ 599.511
Reports and other information.
The CoRA and the State or local governments in which the Renewal Community is located must submit such periodic reports and provide such additional information as HUD may require.
§ 599.513
Revocation of designation.
(a)
Basis for revocation.
HUD may revoke the Renewal Community designation of an area if HUD determines that the CoRA or the State or local governments in which the area is located:
(1) Have modified the boundaries of the area; or
(2) Are not complying substantially with, or fail to make progress in achieving the State and local commitments made at the time of application as required by § 599.107.
(b)
Letter of warning.
Before revoking the Renewal Community designation of an area, HUD will issue a letter of warning to the CoRa and the State and local governments in which the area is located, with a copy to all affected Federal agencies of which HUD is aware:
(1) Advising that HUD has determined that the CoRA and/or State and/or local governments in which the area is located have:
(i) Modified the boundaries of the area without written approval from HUD; or
(ii) Are not complying substantially with, or have failed to make progress in achieving the State and local commitments made at the time of application as required by § 599.107; and
(2) Requesting a reply from the CoRa and State and local governments in which the area is located within 90 days of the receipt of this letter of warning.
(c)
Notice of revocation.
To revoke the designation, HUD must issue a final notice of revocation of the designation of the area as a Renewal Community, after allowing 90 days from the date of receipt of the letter of warning for response, and after making a determination in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(d)
Notice to affected Federal agencies.
HUD will notify all affected Federal agencies of which it is aware, of its determination to revoke any designation in accordance with this section.
(e)
Effect of revocation.
Upon revocation of a Renewal Community designation, the designation and applicable benefits cease to be available in the area.
(f)
Publication.
The final notice of revocation of designation will be published in the
Federal Register,
and the revocation will be effective on the date of publication.
CHAPTER VI—OFFICE OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT [RESERVED]
PARTS 600-699 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
24 CFR (4-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
24 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter V
570 Notification
52479
570.3 Introductory text revised
47910
570.205 (a)(4)(vii) removed; (a)(4)(viii) redesignated as new (a)(4)(vii) and revised
47910
570.441 (b) introductory text, (2), (3), (c) heading, (1), (d), and (e) revised
47910
570.487 (b) revised
47911
570.487 (d) amended
61567
570.490 (a)(1) and (b) revised
47911
570.506 (g)(1) revised
47911
570.601 (a)(2) revised
47911
570.607 (b) amended
61567
574.530 (b) revised
47911
574.600 Amended
61567
576.407 (a) amended
61568
576.500 (s)(1)(ii) revised
47911
578.99 Heading and (i) amended
61568
2021
24 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter V
570 Notification
59302
570.487 (b) revised; interim
30792
570.506 (g)(1) revised; interim
30792
570.601 (a)(2) revised; interim
30792
574.530 (b) revised; interim
30792
576.500 (s)(1)(ii) revised; interim
30792
2022
24 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter V
570 Announcement
53662
570.496 (d)(1)(iii) amended
8197
2023
24 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter V
570 Notification
73532
570.3 (1)(i) amended; eff. 1-1-24
9665
570.208 (b)(1)(iv) revised
30498
574.310 (d)(1) and (2) revised; (e) redesignated as (g); new (e), (f), and (h) added; eff. 1-1-24
9665
574.310 (b) introductory text and (2) revised; (b)(3) added
30498
576.403 (c) revised
30498
578.75 (b) revised
30499
2024
24 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter V
570 Notification
78239
570 Compliance date delayed
106998
574 Compliance date delayed
106998
576 Compliance date delayed
106998
578 Compliance date delayed
106998
581.1 Amended
89880
581.2 Revised
89881
581.3 Revised
89881
581.4 Revised
89881
581.5 Revised
89881
581.6 Revised
89881
581.7 Revised
89881
581.8 Revised
89881
581.9 Revised
89881
581.10 Revised
89881
581.11 Revised
89881
581.12 Revised
89881
581.14 Added
89886
581.15 Added
89886
581.16 Added
89886
581.17 Added
89886
581.18 Added
89886
581.19 Added
89886
581.20 Added
89886
581.21 Added
89886
581.22 Added
89886
581.23 Added
89886
2025
(Regulations published from January 1, 2025, through April 1, 2025)
24 CFR
90 FR
Page
Chapter V
570.200 (h)(3) added
894
570.200 Regulation at 90 FR 894 eff. date delayed to 4-20-25
8780
570.487 (b) revised; interim; eff. 4-2-25
11024
570.490 (a)(1) amended; (b) revised; interim; eff. 4-2-25
11024
570.506 (g)(1) revised; interim; eff. 4-2-25
11024
570.601 (a)(2) revised; interim; eff. 4-2-25
11024
574.530 (b) revised; interim; eff. 4-2-25
11024
576.500 (s)(1)(ii) revised; interim; eff. 4-2-25
11024
○
